[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:02",
    "text": "participate, so please don't contribute without having reviewed, The note well. And all the documents it points to. In addition, please treat everyone with respect We have no problem with you attacking their ideas. But please don't attack the person delivering the And, We have a very long agenda. We obviously will not get through it today. Hopefully, we will get through everything on this slide. So the the Agenda has been posted and updated, like, three times. Just today. And, the, big things have been, being adjusted one of which is of the 4 documents that became RFCs since we were last together, 3 of them were published last night. So Congratulations to the authors and other contributors of those documents. Like you. Congratulations. The, other 2, We have mostly finished in this working group. They've gone to the ISG. One of which has an issue that's been raised, and so we'll be talking about that. 1st first The other one the, nfekudocument has no open issues that we're aware of. Does anyone in the room know of any open issues with that document. Okay. Let's take a look the next slide, then there's a group of documents that all have to do with updating peak test Pete kicks specifications. Then we have a special topic. Last Friday, we had an attack, against the use of, AES CBC"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "CM and AES GCM, posted that, basically only works because we also support CBC. And, the cryptographers who found that are coming and will be presenting 1st on Wednesday. And then I have a proposal for how to fix it so I'll present after them Then then We have a group of SMIME documents. If The, P kicks documents don't take the whole hour. We'll move into these. And then we have a group of documents that people would like to talk about us adopting. And that doesn't include the one that just got to us in the last session. The And then there's one that, would the the authors hope they can present for information. So, very full agenda for 3 hours. So I think, John, we're gonna start with the MRI document list. There's any agenda Really? I can hear it really loud. Okay. Alright. Yeah, I'm gonna talk about the, KEMRI document, as Russ mentioned, It's currently in IESG state. Let me know. We'll get to that in a second. Again, it's the key encapsulation mechanism in cryptographic. Message syntax, to ignore the next five. Yeah. So it essentially uses the cam over to, to to to be able to derive key that's used then to encrypt the content encryption key. We've explained this before. So you've all looked at it. You can go to the next slide out, but you need to spend time here. As I was just saying, it's an ISG state."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "Actually looked at the RFC today to find out what those states mean. So anyway, it's part of the the whole process. And there's a very, very long, so it's one of the states. I think it's, like, 8 or 9th out of, like, 20. So, anyway, so we're waiting for AD. Go ahead. External party. There's a number of issues discussed on the list. We believe that they've all been resolved for one which was just mentioning that Belco, and Johanis mentioned about the inverse CPC decryption Oracle attack And as he said, they will be guess, talking about it on Wednesday. So I'll go into details of that. They had asked us if we could put a new information in the CMS or I for Kim. Other infrastructure, basically putting the, I think the content encryption algorithm there. They said that would mitigate it. But obviously, it's a an issue that would affect all of CMS so a solution that know, applies to everything would be better and that would be Russ actually came to our hackathon on Sunday and said, had written some code and I was looking at medication. So I guess we're gonna be talking about that. So So we'll be hearing about that, I guess, on Wednesday. So that's essentially where we are. Any questions on that? Oh, Mike. I guess you had something. Hi. My galesworth And Trust. I sort of feel like this is maybe moving slightly 2 bass. Like, maybe it hasn't had enough soaking time for review. One and I'm guilty on that. But here's a comment that I probably should have made 6 months ago. Russ. Can you explain why this is And is that gonna cause interop problems with other things that think we should be in the CMS should have HPKE and Yes. I can. And you won't like the answer probably, but I can explain it. So I worked with a couple of folks to work on an HBKE for and Jose document."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "And what we found in the environment is that binding, binding, the key agreement key at, establishment usually as vague a term as I can on purpose with the use of an AAD. Is what HBKE defines. Right? And CMS, Cozay, and JOE goes, they all split those into Key management, and then encryption or AED encryption or authentication. And that splitting is is inherent to the way the all three of those protocols work. And when you try to mash it together in Cozay especially trying to use the code points from the CFRG k e. Registry because they One code point defines both how to do key management and how to do the, AED You just the protocol and that library especially the HBKE libraries for those who had them did not jive And so, really, it's due HBke, or do CMS, Cozay, or Jose. And and they're still fighting on that draft. 2 years later, and I took my name off it. I hope that explained it, and it certainly has nothing to do with MRI. So that sort of also answered my next question, which is CMS will never do HBK. That's correct. Good. Got it. I'm super mic. That's always good. Like, guess, Roman had something? Hi. I'm Roman Hill, Ed. Just as process observation. Is it ready for RFC editor? We're on a lot of steps away from that. We haven't even gone"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "IETF last call. So I don't mean to kinda work with your title, but the next step is I have the document. I've done 80 review. We've cleared why my my kind of concerns. We got the new stuff going back. I don't know how big changes that will be required. Maybe it'll have to go back to the working group. And then at some point, it'll, you know, IETF last call, ISG review, and after that, That's I thought I thought it finished last call. It, you know, it's 80 Well, I I think you finished last call, then you put in an external party. Yeah. Your previous slide has. Yeah. Your your point is right though. There's plenty of time to fix. So plenty of time for this. Yep. Right. Am I right? Thank you. Any anything else? Yeah. Roman still in the queue. Alright. Great. Cool. Alright. Thank you. What's the next on the agenda? Okay. So we're gonna talk about CMP DiscNet. Why are they not in the order I put them in the this. So, yeah. Yeah. But they're It's not in the preloaded stuff for some There it is. Yes. Okay. So these two drafts are from an, requirement from the ADs. The IESG to incorporate the stuff play mute. Play mute."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "Yeah. But you're the messenger. They they they asked us to incorporate this stuff from RFC 9480. Into the original drafts and not provide this Delta dotcom courses complex greed. So we did that So the 6712bis is stable. We need to align it with a published RFC. And the 4210 biz is there are still some to do is open and maybe next slide. Please, please, please, please that was a status on 6712bis. Next slide, please So 4210bis We we would like to get some more review onto the cam integration into the CMP I think we discussed that in IETF. 100 16. I spotted this nice comment from Russ in the minutes. So anyone from the working group, has time and bandwidths to review that is welcome. Specific after this discussion on CMS MRI I would like to get feedback on the content we have for the chem other info for the context Oh, we put quite a lot of context into that. Maybe it's too much. Maybe we can get along with less but I would like to see feedback and and opinions on that. Makes complete sense after the talk on Wednesday. Yeah. Yeah. So next slide, please. just, to, to recap what I presented at IETF 117. We introduced, algorithm. Identifier we introduced in a general message type,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:03",
    "text": "And we introduced this, cam, other info for the context separation, and then we use the established key for Mac based protection. Step closer sorry. Is this better? Oh, yes. Great. Okay. So Next slide, please. So this introduces then how these structures are used. So in general, you expect a client having a cam key pair we need first a general message exchange to give the serve the opportunity to provide the client with a fresh ciphertext, then the client can derive session key and provide a Mac based protection which then the server can validate And the server is free to use whatever protection, suits its credentials. And, the client can reuse a Mac key for further message protections of that transaction. Next slide, please. The other situation where the server has a cam key probably that's not the most, common, common situation. But if it is, then the client could directly provide the ciphertext in its request message if it processes already and authenticate authentic, public cam key of the server. Else wise, it it also needs this, additional general message round trip and then it it works, similarly. In case Both client and server has chem keys. This can also be, easily combined in, in the same messages. Okay. So any questions?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:05",
    "text": "K. K. Thank you. So thank you. Which one? He's I thought he sent some that he currently the PKS PKS12 PBmax Good. Good. I'm here. I call it, and, Oh, nice. If there's anything discuss. Okay. Let's find out. Because this document is in working group last call. So, If there are any open issues, please raise them now. far as I know, only David, As has raised problems with, PD Mac. No. We DMP string encoding for the password, but I've just merged that. Public waste that other, that addresses that. So I think that's basically everything. Just needed to push the new version to the, editor. Hey. This is Sean Turner. So I think I did send a message about this is on the right draft. I might be talking about the wrong one, but at ASN 1 module, Do you remember? Maybe it's a different draft, but I thought I sent a I sent I sent an email requesting my note. I thought I replied to it. It said your own. I that's what I was trying to figure out. I'm not quite not quite clear how somebody who's got, whether people use modules or not, compile the things and actually are able selector is on So I think there's like one minor extension Like, dot dot dot needs to be added in one field. Have to check, but I don't think so. Okay. So we'll double check, but that's the only thing that I want to raise. Thanks. Okay. And I say that because I need this thing. So Right. Thank you, Sean."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "Alright. So let let's just have, as part of the last call, check the ASN 1. And then, the this document should be done. CSR interface. Yes, Mike. Michael. Oh, let's see if we're at the station. That's the one. Michael Richardson. Yes. I don't have slides from him. Okay. Alright. Then I'd highlight these certificates. I did not get slides on the lithium certificates. Is there anything to say? Obviously, we're still waiting for this to assign a weights. Okay. Same for Kiverserts as far as I know. How are you assigned? Alright. Get to use the tool. Of the 5th. Means I have to go to my mail to find them. So I from Sean. Uh-uh. No. Did use the tool. Because these chairs have to say yes. Chair. Yeah. Yes, but How do you know I didn't get them strong. Okay. We could do it later. We Alright. Start binding remotely off."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "Which one? Ali? Who Ally? Ally's gonna talk about this. One slide where that gives a There it is. No. Not those. We'll get the right slide. Yes. That slide. Cool. It's short either way. So we're in working group last call. There's just a few like light knit, updating the ASM dotone module, which is probably the most exciting one. Sorry. There were a few other, really, like, nice suggestions that we just didn't really get strong opinions on probably because there's not much say either way. So the signature field that was suggested to add an optional field to specify the hash instead of using the same one that we used to sign the cert. I don't have a strong opinion either way on that. And then the other one was just to use GMT instead of binary time, which is also I think not a very controversial decision. So if anyone has strong healings either way, we can chat. Now we're on Lister. Whatever works. Okay. Thanks. Debit tension policy grant. Carlos. Is David in the room? Did he send slides? David Benjamin. I have only one sentence, so there's not much of slides. The document was adopted, and I don't think I've made any changes since it was adopted."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:04",
    "text": "Far as I'm concerned, this is the policy graph document is ready for last call. Although people have other comments. I'm happy to include them. Okay. Thank you, David. Any, but he have concerns with, with proceeding to last call on that document. K. With notetaker. There's an action item. Thank you. Received the last call for that one. There's gotta be a better way to deal with these when there's this many slides, Yeah. Mike CSR Edgeridge. As to this station. Okay. Mike likes Purple. Mike's company likes It's white. Alright. Yeah, so this is work that we've presented I think this is only a second. IETF, but it's moving quite quickly. So we've been running a design group I guess semi formally underlapse. Since April. And this this document is the first input. We also have a similar one in rats. Sort of presenting something similar at rats. Yeah, it's Next slide? So the the goal here is Attestations, I'm gonna, thanks in the room. I'm gonna use the word attestation to mean either evidence or endorsements. And you and we were starting to see this technology pick Right? You've got TPMs that can do it. You've got you'd be key type things and Android type things. And there's starting to be a wide ecosystem of of attestation type things."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "We are starting to need this to be transmittable to CA's. You're requesting a certificate from the CA, the CA 1 proof that the private key is in hardware. And so we're starting to need this to be integrated into the PKI. In particular, there's some time pressure here because Cab forum made a rule that went into effect like, already, like, last summer. Thanks. Tab form? That, for code signing certs. If you're if you're requesting like a windows code signing cert, you approved to the CA that you're storing the key in the FIPs or Common Criteria certified module, but there isn't any good really automation for proving that to the CA. So it's all a bit very manual and horrible. This is part of a step towards being able to automate all of that ecosystem. And so what we're doing here in this draft is we're saying if you have attestation in, any format whatsoever Here's how you carry it. In a CSR. Next. So I'm gonna walk through diffs from from the last time we presented this. So These are diffs from the pre adoption. So the draft Ainsworth00 which then became a draft IETF laps00 and then a Jobs IATA flamps 01. So I'm dipping sort of 2 versions back with a different name. So here was the original ASM one we had for these attributes. We had a lengthy long debate about this being awkward. So this was basically, we had an at an and you could have 1 or more attest statements and then 0 or 1, like, counts max 1 certificate bag. And the idea there was you know, provide as many endorsements or evidences as you want and then provide a big massive unordered bag of certificates that you'll need to verify them. And this sort of got on VLD. We we as as as we imagine the technology growing and getting better used and that maybe you'll have or 3 or 4 or more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "evidence and endorsement statements in a CSR, the number of certificates that you would need to verify them grow in some unwieldy way. And, yes, in theory, certificate path builders should be able to path build over some random unordered bag, but in practice, we know that that not always help certificate certificate, clients work and that sometimes they get really, see if the one they want isn't first in the bag and all that sort of stuff. So yeah, so this got this got reworked. In a particular, there's just another problem that if multiple evidence endorsement statements come with their own certificate which may be overlapping then whichever device is constructing the endorsement or constructing the CSR will need to merge them and deduplicate them which sounds really annoying, especially if that device is a small firmwarey thing that doesn't want to have you know, robustness to be able to merge into duplicate sort of chain. So this this sort of method mechanism got a bit messy. So next slide. Carl Wallace just sort of air dropped us our solution. Thank you, Carl. And he proposed that we change the structure to an evidence bundle and an evidence bundle is a sequence of evidence statements and optionally a a cert bag sequence of certificates, and then you can have multiple of these. So basically that means if you have multiple evidences that share a cert chain or share a overlapping cert chain or somehow logically share certs. However, you wanna do that, you can group things. Or if you wanna have a one to one mapping between evidence statements and cert chains, you can just submit multiple of these. You can do the 1 to 1. You can do the 1 to many. This sort of seems to solve all the problems. That's what that says here. Yeah. Identical or developing search chains can be grouped. Such station with different search chains can be separated to help the verifier and allow easier construction of these compound attestations that need to merge and to duplicate."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "Mike, Mike St. John's, are you here? He's in Prague. I know he's in trouble. But he's not in this room. Comment. You know, where Okay. Yeah. So, call out to MST. I know you on the mailing list. You didn't like this merging, and I'm curious Yeah. I I need to discuss that more fully with with Mike St. John's to understand because I think you were talking about cases where there's partial cert chain overlap. But maybe the, like, the signing cert is different otherwise, the 2 change overlap. And I I think that probably should work fine with this, but if that did this you know, critically fails with that use case. I'd like to understand that. Otherwise, we think this handles all use cases. Next next change. Thank you, Hendrick, pointing out that our version didn't work with CRMF. So we have added the ASN 1 for both PKS10 and CRMF with this, text that says you must not use these extensions for pipeline certificates. They are only for CRMF. Requests. And this sort of ties into one of the security considerations that there's privacy implications with the CA just taking an attestation and moving it over into a certificate, you might have consented to share with the CA, what model version patch level blah blah blah of your HSM, is it under dual control? Like, you might have consents share that with the CA, but you might not have consented for that to be in the certificate transparency logs. You can imagine whoever's signing firefox.exe might might not want that information blushed. Publicly. So there's the simplifications with a CH is automatically moving that extension over, which is why this draft says don't do it. If you wanna put assessations inserts. That's not this draft. You're gonna have to write your own security consideration section. Next."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:04",
    "text": "The other change, this is just minor. We renamed certificate choice to certificate alternatives to avoid a name collision with 5652. And we struck out the opaque cert. Which we don't think we have a use case for it. That's So here's an open design question. Which, I'll just sort of introduce, but then Hendrick is going to give a fuller presentation on later on in the agenda. Nonsense and freshness. Typically in the rats architecture with is you wanna assume that the amount of station is fresh. You sort of assume it's a challenge response protocol that the the relying party says, hey, device tell me about yourself, and here's a knot to prove that it's fresh and you get back assigned object. And that sort of rat sort of assumes that there's this freshnessy thingy CSRs really don't work that way. CSRs don't often don't want to be fresh, often you want like, for example, ACME is designed to accommodate cases where the ACME client is in a different network zone from where the private actually lives. So the CSR gets signed, moves out a different network zone. You can then do the certificate enrollment but you don't have a full network path back to the private key so you can't do a full round trip challenge response. So CSRs need to work in that sort of environment. It's also common, hideously horribly so, but it's common for clients who reuse CSRs sometimes across multiple years It's in someone's TXT file and just keep pasting it into a website whenever they need a new cert. Not saying it's a good idea. I'm saying it's done, and we need to not break it. So there's this sort of weird philosophical conflict between watch attestation to have freshness thoughts, but CSRs don't. So we've written up a big pile of security and implementation considerations around freshness that's in the draft and I hope we've sort of done that hand waving properly. We basically just say that's out of scope for this document. If you want to handle freshness and you want"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "CSRs to contain nots is, you've gotta somehow buy that to a protocol level nots. And Hendrick and Haunas are gonna present how to do that in EST and CMP. That will come later. So is that tied closely enough to this that we 2 juggle the agenda to put that Next. The non the nonce the non CFP EST. Talk. Well, while I prep people's brains to really Yes. Exactly. We might as well. Yeah. Alright. I'm pretty sure I have slides from you already or from Thomas or or okay. I think that my last slide is just an adopt question mark or something or Yeah. There we go. Working in Glasgow probably not quite yet, but we're getting close. Alright. Any questions from my other than how does that nonsense thing work? It's a far away from over there. You're you're here. To do it live today? Yeah, for this, for all this stuff. There's some freshness is not recentness And, and there are multiple ways to do freshness an evidence. So, it's, a CA or RA might expect other, proofs of freshness than the nonces. And and these are possible and where they could be just been noted. In some consideration of security or some other aspect. I think it's just a paragraph on if you have a faster time stamp in there or your faster don't have some epoch takes some you understand what those hours go ahead. The problem, the nonstop them, you can even have them stone them and 3 server. Not an issue. So we have, like, 5 paragraphs in their address in noughts and freshness. If"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "you have specific feedback on those paragraphs, of course, we could Yeah. Yeah. But I'm also aware that the that the non-sixty, like, had a positive, a prominent example about the other, of course, way more feasible base to to do freshness without recent risks. And and then that's good. Just be a lever. I'll just send you a link to another document that says that. I know you know how to do PRs. You've done some on this. Feel free to k? Alright. Any other questions or comments? We're gonna go to that non stock permit then. Alright. K. Next slide, please. Oh, Hank, are you still in the queue? Before. Based on your title slide, I don't know Okay. So, Hannings and I discussed, this topic of requirement of freshness of evidence evidences in attestation cases and we said, okay. If you need something like that. Then you need an enrollment protocol to provide you the the norms in advance to providing the CSR, and this is mainly what we, wrote down. Next lesson. So, finally, it is the simple case, the RA provides, gets a fresh, a nonce from the verifier provides it in a message to the end NTT, which then, takes this month's to to get the the evidence from the attester provide this evidence into the CSR"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "like, Mike, already presented. Provide it back and then, the verifier can can check that, the evidence is is current Next slide, please. Can you say how this matches But really, on a separate network case where where in this diagram is that network separation? Because the subject is not on here. Right. And that's why I was asking what you were just describing was an air gap network and CMP doesn't support that. So that's a different I get another problem. Yeah. Okay. Unrelated. I think. Okay. Thank you. Like, when I was talking about air gap networks, I was thinking of, like, you're pasting a CSR into a web browser that's you know, where near where your server is, those sorts of things things, things, things, things, things, things, things, Okay. Yeah. But if you have an air gap network, SCMP has self contain signed messages, you could even ship them Correct. By some other mechanism. Thumb drive or whatever. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So I guess the point is if you're doing CMP, you assume there is some way to do round trips to the subscriber private. Yes. Whether that involves a USB stick and a truck find that you you already need a round trip, so you're not having a knot doesn't force it extra round trip, you already need 1. Right. That's what I wanted you to say. Okay. So these are the the examples we picked for CMP and EST. So both protocols provide a message exchange for providing CSR attributes or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "certificate templates, as we call it in in CMP, we could add an extension, to this template providing the non and telling the entity that an evidence is requested in the CSR. Which then the every the the end entity cooked provide in the in the response. So in CMP, this is described in, are received for 89 9480 and 9483, which are trust recently published in ES there are different mechanisms described in 70 30, there is a mechanism and there is another mechanism specified in 8295. And, Michael wanted to present, another mechanism in its his draft on CSR attributes. So Yeah. We we are not yet quite sure which one is the most appropriate one or whether it's transparent and can be used with any of those. Hi, Thomas. I think, section 452 of, EST is not very appropriate because it you would create state at each location of the CSR ARTS endpoint, and that doesn't you know, you probably want a separate API endpoint to actually get a norm so that You have an explicit signal from the client really wants to use that interface in order to get the notes to cut the notes. Rather than, you know, making it mandal it with other unimixed stuff. Yeah. So if the n NTT requests some attributes to be covered in the CSR. And the RA things that an evidence, an attestation evidence is required. Including a freshness nonce, why not using that? Endpoint."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "Because how can the array make the decision without an explicit signal from the client. Is it is it not the identity? No. It's a policy decision. Yes. Of the array. Okay. The RA would do that for every single implication of that, for every invocation that wanted that extension, for example. Okay. So then it's not a static template. Can be reused for any request from any arbitrary entity. But, the RA has to craft a new of fill a new nonce into the template for each request. So going back to what Hank was saying before, you have many different ways to do freshness in rats. And one of them is the epoch marker. Which allows you to reuse unknowns across, you know, period of time. So maybe that's it. And optimization that you could consider here. Of, of course. Right. Right. Any feedback is welcome, of course, this was just a first draft introducing or explaining how using an enrollment protocol, this could be provided. If this this consideration comes from my experience in the at the academy, we did we did some prototyping on it's exactly they speak. So Okay. And the problem was, you know, creating state without really on the verifier as well because you need to get these the verification session on the verifier associated with that non and then to verify to remember that. So it was a bit, you know, clamgee. Okay. Thank you. Okay. This is it. Any other questions or comments? Okay. Thank you. How did he go? 15 night 50 19 this OCSP is up next."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:09",
    "text": "Yep. Next slide, please. Yeah. Change since I give, 7 we at the point, and we address some comment by us. Tilt. Outside yet. We we have some change, like, switch address, some comment from Los Angeles their change. Next please, In 117, we had a discussion. I that they couldn't even know about obligion comment on the dasco, like, adoption code, and we And we are just making some change in protocol. No. Profile. Are not, not changing protocol, and our change of profile inside over the scope of the protocol. So there isn't that much controversial change. So I think we are ready for Yep. That's all. Anyone have any concerns with going to working group last call in the next couple weeks. Sean, there's no missing dot dot dot somewhere. Alright. Cool. Alright. Thank you. Alright. So next we have Sean and and I have to get out of this for them to find it Thank you. Appreciate it. It's just one slide, so it won't take that long. So we have this Kuiper search draft, which is how you're gonna power keys and a certificate."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "Now. It is, It is there. To read that? Should be last. Right? That's what I was thinking, but well. Thermos. No. Let's share slides. Sorry. Approach it So if I, k. Let me hit reload and see what happens. There they are. Input stack. Let me get out of here. Here. Should preload slides. Okay. So I learned a lesson last time. No dark slides. So always later slides from now on. Yeah. Hey, we have the Skype search draft. And this is gonna publish a document they changed the name of the algorithm we're gonna have to address that somehow So that's my cute little way of doing Next. 02 was just to keep a live draft. It expires. So, basically, we just know, updated the dates and went with it. So in 3, we're gonna try to change the name. I was right about to hit the button to do all this stuff. And then Baz was like, oh, hey. That example that so nicely generated for you. That's not gonna be the latest thing. That's the old previous version. I got kind of in this chicken and egg problems. Should, we merge the the example certificates into the draft and not change the name, or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "put them through the name change and leave the example out. So I'm curious what the working group would prefer. All in 1. So problem is that if I put it, what do you mean? What do you mean by all by all in 1? Okay. Because then we just have to put them and we just put a note in and say, like, hey. This is the old Okay. Alright. I'm I'm perfectly happy with that. And then the last thing that we're gonna have to argue about in any way discuss is like, what's the private key format? So I'm hoping some smart people can into the discussion and tell me what the maybe the minimum is that we need like, Karen, that this that this decision is like you can put it all in, which is really good for some implementations, but for small implementations that are like, memory constrained. It's better for them to not have all of the fields. But then that takes more energy when they need to, like, reconstitute the thing. So hopefully some people to know more about the particular format can help me. So alright. I know what to do for 3. We will that with a big warning and put an example in there. Sean, do you remember that document from IBM and a bunch of other. Yeah. But it has like a 1200 aways in it. Yeah. Yeah. That one. That one. But how many formats for Kyber keys did it have? I don't remember. I just remember. Because if the answer is 1 Yeah. Then go grab Yes. Yes. I will I will definitely go look at that IVR community with Sarah, but I think that was a Here are the litany of things you can do, and we should try to figure out what's Right. No. If they had 12, that's a different a different story. Alright. Cool. Great. Thank you very much. That's it. Expect in 3 in the next couple of weeks. So more people. Yep. That was the wrong way. Yeah. I was just gonna mention then, how can we do have some people that have actually created Kyber's certificate. So Yeah. I wanna look at those. I think we're using just octet strings. To the private key form. Geez. I mean, very basic. Yeah. Well, I mean, that's that's all we have discussions about this, like, you know, in our first hackathon, but what private key formats and people all converged on that and it just work. And if that's the case, then that's great. Because, I mean, the one of the one of the concerns, obviously, is it, like,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "you can go wild, and I don't wanna go wild. I mean, ace and wanna give you great. Thanks. Like, that's not helpful. Drafts. I think that had different formats. They all have to type. There was 2. One was big and complicated. 1 less octate stream. Octet string works. And it just makes doing implementation. Works is a kind of thing. Yeah. Right. And we've we've done some interop with that too. So Alright. Cool. We'll keep that in mind when we kick that discussion off. I'll try to keep it in a separate thread so we can time. Because at the end of the day, I'm not so sure how much of an interoperability thing it is. So if it ends up being a sword, a hill in which people are willing to die in a bunch of swords, I'm taken out raft wrapped. Daniel Con Gilmore. Sorry. I forgot to put myself in the queue. In open PGP, we're moving in that direction as well. Like the there's like a fancy way to split out all of the little pieces of the cookie cutter stuff. Octet strings, It's like, I feel it's like foot guns. Right? Like, and and we often pull those trigger it's not. Okay. Great. Let's stop pulling those triggers. Okay. Cool. Thank you. Thank you. Is that the end of the peak kicks? Chapter. I'm alright. Then we're going to move to the SMIME chapter, but header protection. The people aren't all in the room. Right. I like she's not here. Yeah. He has to did that be on Wednesday? Suit Civercy MS, right? Yes. Yes. I found myself. Julian sent some stuff. Okay. I'm not seeing that. Why not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:10",
    "text": "CMS Kyber. There it is. Yay. Thank you. Hi, everyone. So I'm Julianne Bratt from Kipta crypto Next. So I will, tell you about the changes, on the RSC, CMS, a cable within CMS. Since the version 0s. Next slide, please. So the changes are mainly editorial so I added references to, the new, draft overseas that that has been, that had been published since last version. Specialist, the cameras you're chanting for, draft RSC the cyber certificate CRC and, the CMS, SHA free, heresy. So in CMS, we give some details about content, specific instances of the cameras account info for a usage with a cable. And, in the end, the last change, is about the different algorithmic configurations that, we want to use the with Kaiber. So here, we give some, algorithm combinations to be used for KEM KDF and wrap, functions. To, to try to have a consistent security level between algorithms. So, yeah, that's it for the changes. Next slide, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:06",
    "text": "And for the next steps, of this draft RFC, so as a first open point, what was almost addressed, by Sean, during last presentation, should we turn the document into MLCAM, a user FMLCAM in CNS. So if you have a view on that, so please let me know. And, for the next steps, so we have 4, or IDs to be defined, and, I send 1 module to be updated. And lectures to be added. Maybe in the next hackathon would be the opportunity to produce some test vectors. That's it. That's it. That's it. Scott Fluor Sysco Systems. I just have one minor note. You list the key train, the, encryption for the mill, level layer 3, level 3 to be ADS 192. That is a very lightly used and then lightly implemented, version I suggest going to AES226 at that point. At that point? Okay. Yes. Even though it's, yeah, it's it's it's quote, more secure than you needed and everything else. But who cares? Demos. Okay. Not so yeah. Why not? Yes. John Gray. I agree with Scott's point. Gonna say you had the question about making the name of it to mlkam. I I think you should just because everything's moving to her cabin. So and that's gonna be in the nest name. So let's do it. Okay. So and what about, keeping both cyber and then it came, in the, Well, I think I think the name is gonna be MLCAD. Right? That's what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "just divide the existing implementation so we can just get rid of it, and I think so. Okay. Or or mlchem during development known as Kyber, know, the first time you reference it and leave it at that. Then we should change your title as well. Yes. But don't change the draft name. But that's what Sean's doing as well. In his next version, he's gonna change Kai to an outcome. Okay. And maybe just one other question, about the algorithm configurations. So where should it be, agreed? Because many protocols and many, algorithm combinations are needed. And maybe, what a group should decide, the the combination that should be used for, appropriate security levels. So do you have an opinion on this, which group should give an opinion on that, It's bequeev or not hearing anybody in the room has thought about that. That's surprising. Okay. I would just propose some, and people will argue if they see something in there that they don't like. Okay. Zip. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry. I will take that. Yeah. And there's an there's a lot of this alignment that needs to happen working groups, right, like, looking, like, Scott's comment should be AES 1 192, which is, I think among the authors of all the different documents here. I think we all know each other. We're talking enough that we can make get all that aligned. Does it need to be here? Does it need to be peek with? Can it be private discussions?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "We we did say that P Kip would be the place to make sure we were all talking so that Jose Jose, Jose CMS. P kicks, and so on all come out using, algorithms that one library can support all the protocols. Right. That's the goal. Okay? Okay. Thanks. And also, and also the shared analysis, like, cure. You know, the the the debates of what actually security levels aligning across the safer suites that should be consistent 7 There is no updates for Sph Finks Plus. We're just waiting for the oids. 5990. Yeah, Sean. Did we have slides for that? Sean, did you send any slides for 59.90? Okay. You got anything to say? And so Okay. Well, that document's in working group last call right now. Please review it. Please make sure that, any concerns you have are heard. You're fine. 5 minutes. Should we go with composite? It's composite cam. Yeah. Could do anything. I DKG 5 minutes for you for end to end guidance. I did want that. Well, no, he's he explicitly asked enter protection. Alright? With us. They are crumbling. Then I'll wait then I would like to we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "Alright. Let's let's In 5 minutes, Yeah. Okay? And if it gets me to credentials, then gotta get you on the second. Then you'll end up talking on Wednesday? Yep. But while you're all here, right. So next slide, please. So we have the situation where, Alice has sent a carol is sending mail to Alice and Bob There's a key for Alice. There's no key for Bob. Carol has 4 options. Send an encrypted message to both. Bob can't read it. Send it in the clear to both. They can both read it, but Alice is getting a clear dense copy when she could have gotten an encrypted one. Send it encrypted to Alice and just drop Bob Carol might not wanna do that. Or option 4, send an encrypted copy to LS and a clear text copy to Bob. Some folks say that's a bad idea. Don't do that. Com. That's one option. But other folks will say, well, we wanna do it anyway. And so if someone does it anyway, How does how do we deal with that? What is the outcome? Next slide, please. Zillowpicture, the message same message being sent to two people, one copy is in the clear, one copy is encrypted. Next slide, please. The suspense Okay. So this is the problem statement. When you get an encrypted message, you want to show it to the user. You want to tell the user was this message encrypted or not? Message that was received by Alice who does have a key was encrypted, but should she know that it wasn't encrypted when another copy went out? And when Alice says reply all, and she can't find a key for Bob. Her male user agent might not have the same policy. It might not say where I can just send encrypted to one side and clear text to the other. So what should your user agent do? How is she gonna know that this is a different kind of a thing? Next slide, please. So we talked about this at IETF116 insect dispatch. Mark's 80 follow-up. We talked about it briefly on the list in April. There was something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "people on the list who agreed that this could be done in lamps. This is mentioned, in end to end mail guidance that prefers options 23, not option 4. But if people are gonna do 4, we need to know viewer that because we don't control the other people's clients. And this is related to some of the future work that is in the end to end Melvin's next slide, please. So the design space lets you choose a lot of different things. Think about how to signal, The draft as it currently stands says we could go with the message header. Do you signal in detail and say if there was clear text copy to these folks encrypted to these folks, or do you just have a Boolean whether it was gripped to everybody or not, The current draft says of Rabulian, And then what do you do when you get a message that has no signal? What do you how do you treat an encrypted message that doesn't have this whatever signal there is. Next slide, please. So, the draft was recently updated. Recently meaning yesterday. Daniel Huygens from Proton, added himself to the authors, which is great. I appreciate that. And actually contributed the specific text that made these decisions. And said, this is a concrete proposal. We think this is a reasonable thing to go forward with. So it's now not just a problem statement draft. It's a potential solution, and we need more feedback from the list. It focuses specifically on the visible recipients of the message. So If you BCC, you don't have to you don't have to make a different decision. So one open question that's not yet left in the draft is about the default. There's some tech near about. If the thing is widely deployed, I think it could probably use a little bit more consideration. About how we deal with that. I would love to hear feedback from group, Next slide. Wait a minute. I wanna probe on that a second. Yep. The Sorry. I heard it. That's why I'm sp I know. The current SME specs says BCCs receive a separate submission"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "Right. Right. And how does that play with this header? In a separate submission, you would So for the messages, for the the submission that's going to the non BCC folks, you don't care. You don't mention the separate submission. For the message that's going to the BCC folks, because they can still hit reply all. They can't hit reply all. They would get the same header that put in the in the in the encrypt in the in the main copy in the in the copy to the visible recipients, I think, but it doesn't say specifically. Oh, please please suggest text. We'll put it in. Alright. Thank you. So what we're asking for the working group is can we formally adopt this here in the working group? I know there's not really enough stuff happening in Lamb So I thought we had an extra draft. Both, of the Daniels are willing to serve as editors if folks want us there, and I think we're willing to give up change control to the working group, Daniel, tell me if strong. And what we really want is we want people who think about male user agents Melanie's region experience to weigh in on this. You could also weigh in and say this is all a terrible idea. There's a better approach or are the wrong decisions to do happy to hear that too, but we want is we want people who work on those agents to think about this because If we can get this to work, we're gonna want your mail user agent to do this thing. Even if you never send out clear text copies. We're gonna want you to send them a little note and the message that said this did not have a clear text copy. So that, recipients can make sense of it. So That's the pitch. We hope y'all will consider it for adoption. There's already been talk on the list that people saying, yes, we think we could adopt it. That was in April. It's now November. I don't know what we need to do. Chairs, And they went object to a, working group call for adoption in the next few weeks. Okay. Note taker, please make that an action item. Thank you. 5 minutes. Yeah. And it works. Alright, guys. We'll see you on Wednesday."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "Part 2. I may just pick up through that month. Yes. Exactly."
  }
]
