[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:39",
    "text": "[Laughter] [Music] [Music] I never get stupid Santa topic she wakes up at 6:00 a.m. every good evening "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:56",
    "text": "everyone if you\u0027re not expected a stew be here you\u0027re in the wrong room and we would like to someone volunteer for a minute taker okay good we got one thank you any job ascribe okay right good and then Marco is gonna take the relay okay okay so your neighbor is gonna do the relay so let\u0027s start I\u0027m gonna take the mic so please we denote Wells we have to show the slide well so this session is under not well is there anyone that is not aware of the knot well if you\u0027re not you could search that on your favorite search engine document status updates well document that have been updated are going to be presented today and anything you want to add so basically since we met last time we all of the documents that we had been working on have now gone to the area director and if the earlier director was here which he seems to have not decided not to show up the first thing I do is be saying so ban winner we actually get 80 reviews on these documents which he\u0027s gonna say well he started on the first one a priority has been indicated to him which is of the proof of possession biessed and then for olaf documents we really "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:58",
    "text": "have to get this privileged thing through yes and he has yes he in the data tracker he has actually moved that into i\u0027m trying to review it state hi everybody today I am presenting the key provisioning for group communication using ace this is a working group document version 2 so a quick recap for if you haven\u0027t seen this before these documents specify how to use the ACE framework and profiles to provide authentication authorization and an key distribution to notes joining a group so the first part of the exchange here is a message flow from from the document the first part the client is I know that wants to join the group contacts the a s through the ACE or the ACE exchange with the AES and the KDC posterization token to the KDC KD c stands for key distribution center and then afterward contacts the KDC to get the keys so this through a distribution request and response after that it has the keys in place to protect the communication with the other group members through a dispatcher this dispatcher can be for example broker if we talking pub/sub or it could be just a multicast so first of all status update of version 2 and i\u0027m gonna go through the sub date quickly but we would like some feedback from the working group all these updates come from review by jim so we have implemented these changes based on his review and he has signed off on those updates but yeah so the first one we are the procedures for updating and renewing key materials that were previously missing we add the type to the key distribution request so this type indicates if the key distribution is a join request so when the job when the node first joins the group it\u0027s a leave request if it\u0027s you know this telling the dispersion center that it\u0027s actually leaving the group and it causes rekeying for the current group members there is the update type for the key distribution which is the node requests the most the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "most updated or current key material than new if the the node wants to retrieve new key material for itself and then pop keys if he wants to request one or more public keys of current group members so these were already there just we added this type that makes it simpler to see what request is custom consider before you watch here we consider what [Music] can you expand this is a set of verbs you have a Chinese object new and of course in rest we usually do this over resources so we create resources delete resources observe resources to get updates we haven\u0027t considered that if you have suggestions on what terms are back there but this is for this is for a new field in the request that is called type and the site will take some values and we define here what the values mean so yeah we can we can discuss this is an example requesting gave the returned most updated King which of you do I know this once a second or we try to move this as an observe if possible that\u0027s easy to do if it\u0027s already a rest interface yeah no Francesca Robin Wilton I\u0027m just a really quick question when when in operations such as in this case leave causes this KDC to rekey for the current group members is there a may should or must tell the group members that that rekeying is happening so it\u0027s a must so the KDS mission center master key and we don\u0027t this document doesn\u0027t specify exactly how this ricky happens yeah maybe Marco wants to say something well I don\u0027t think that was quite the question okay so it was my fault and my point is if the Kate if the KDC must update the keys for it for a group all the members of that group told that Ricky is happening it depends what is the reckoning like what is used for Akeem it could be an observer or it could be just the unicast "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:02",
    "text": "or multicast depending what is setup this draft stays general so it doesn\u0027t define exactly so yeah Marco from Ray is just to complement and this is left to the application the very final decision depending on if you really care about preserving for security in case of living notes if you do you must do that definitely it does depend on the oricon scheme and how it\u0027s done as well so other updates we have added additional fields for negotiating the format of the public key to use so this is done in the 201 response to token post in the ACE exchange we added approval to session signature of the nonce from the client to the KP distribution center in the key distribution request because we are also sending this public key we added requirements on profiles of these documents such as multicast and sub so this is an appendix saying what the profiles of this document has to implement we define the application profile so here we we need these details additionally to this document to be able to implement this and this is different from the ACE profiles that we call transport profiles that are using the first phase of of the exchange then we define the default for the format of parameters and some Yano registration with labels and expanding on security considerations so following the some reviews of version o 2 we have a couple of open points we would like to discuss today the first one is about scope so right now scope is defined in this document is the finest civil array of two elements group ID in for example multicast or a topic for pops up and then one or an array of roles so you can see in the example in our case we have array topic 1 and then array of publishes subscriber MQTT define something similar in a different format so it allows for multiple scopes and multiple roles and we got the question from Jim that was sure we allow multiple scopes in the same access token ask for example MQTT does and to answer this question we have to look at the actual application profiles for example if you are talking about multicast and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "multicast using oscar group comm then no because there is a one-to-one mapping between the scope and the security group if we talk about pub/sub then yes he can make sense because you may want to use the same security material for different topics so if we do want to do this what does this mean our proposal is to allow multiple scopes which can be useful in certain use cases for example not not in not in multicast and ausco are used but for possum that means that we would add an array for the first element of the scope so we would allow several topics also Jim note is that there is no need for sending the request right now the case is key distribution request was sent to your I associated to the topic so since the topic is contained in the access token that is not needed or sorry in the in the institutional requests that is not needed and instead this key distribution request can be sent to a fixed group URI rather than one associated with the scope and the scope can be made mandatory in the key distribution requests so for example in here in the in the figure you would see that this this key distribution request is sent to this path group key and then under the group key there is a resource handler that is going to redirect because you should request to the right topic depending on the scope contained in the message so if I think we discussed this with Jim he seemed to be okay with this if anybody sees a problem with this beautiful stroke just in technical detail to avoid confusion by not defined the scope in the two documents one for the group and the other food for the pop shipment because if you do it in one document I\u0027m sure some people say why don\u0027t define though why not define the scope in the two documents for the group membership and the other for the perks up and leave it open in this in this there are some things that need need to be specific to the tude of documents for example the values of roles here for pops up would be publisher will be a texturing with publisher and subscriber but it can be the same in both there is really no reason to have it different like the format of the scope can be the same do you see a reason not to have it I think it would be easier actually to have the same format so just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:09",
    "text": "clarification do you want to a to the scope a to a different place is the same format or do you keep one place no it\u0027s really fine the only format there is about scope document yeah I understand that you defined in this document that it is an array of two elements like the second element can be so many elements didn\u0027t understand but in the defer the factual documents that you can use it for topic you can have several of these cookie how did you manage the topic very conservatively that the format looks that is differently used then in for the group management I think that should be separate done in the documents animations it gets confusing meaning okay maybe you should take this offline so you can but I I take it that you think it\u0027s confusing but you don\u0027t think it\u0027s it\u0027s gonna create a problem okay well let\u0027s let\u0027s continue some more open points so right now the the document specified it\u0027s see signs and ons nan Swan that is generated by the KDC for pop and pub key and Jim suggested that we add second nonce nonce to that is signed together we don\u0027t Swan and sent to the KDC distribution requests it seems like good good proposal so we would go ahead and implement that unless they\u0027re comments I\u0027m not the open point and we would like the opinion of the earth experts here is about registering new parameters because right now we have two new parameters that we are that we are using in the token post post and in the response to the token post and right now we\u0027re which is during in D ace AS creation hints registry which is we were told the wrong place to do it and Jim suggested that we registered them in the post parameters registry and then we rd both parameters seaboard mappings Mike Jones Microsoft I agree with Jim okay sounds good also I\u0027m not I don\u0027t know if anyone is monitoring jabber but I assume that load we can just go in the mythical queue if he wants to comment as well great so we\u0027ll go ahead and do that yet we might have more questions for the OAuth people because we don\u0027t know if you need to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:10",
    "text": "specify more details at us these our parameters specific two days and this document but final question another comment from Jim was the format of keys could be the same as the using the CNF field so we would do this modification doesn\u0027t change much it\u0027s just an update to do then we have a couple more points that are about rekeying so what the document says about Ricky is that so this goes back to the discussion we\u0027re having before about updating etc Ricky so the KDC should renew the king material upon group membership change and should provided to the current group members through drinking scheme use in the group so right now we define how the si can get a new king material and we say alternatively the redistribution King material can be initiated by the KDC otherwise the default mechanism will be the client sends a request to the KDC asking for a new king material when if if the redistribution key material is initiated by the KDC we don\u0027t know what end point should the KDC use to send Ricky messages and we don\u0027t know if this is in scope of this document but we think it should be and our proposal to solve this is to define a new optional parameter called reeking URI or something else if you have that idea in the key distribution requests and the client used this parameter to tell the KDC what you are I introduced for sending unicast request messages back to the client so in this in this case the client would take the role of the server and is telling the KDC that would take the role of the client what - what endpoint to send this new piece custom [Music] request may be looking at the rest like indifference for that there is one possible reason why this is better than a restful interface and that is the server can do confirmation that the clients got it rather than just doing a and that\u0027s your back so you can sit so if the server goes in Econ message to that to each of the recipients you don\u0027t get a response from the receiver that they actually liked it or something so yeah I think that that is listed as one of the options as well so I think these are not things that go "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:15",
    "text": "against each other it\u0027s more like alternatives well as a bird but this is a general document and then the specific application profile needs to define exactly which mechanism to use yeah many alternatives are trans a bit because they all need to be implemented or need to be already tested well they do if you offer them and somebody picks them up you have to this this document is not implementable by itself it needs a profile that specify the details and one of these details is how do you do the rekeying and really updating here so until the profile comes along that we need this okay note taken okay so second point another alternative mention for a king is with multicast messages and the client would not know what IP multicast address he needs to listen to for a keying so the proposal is to define a new optional parameter breaking your eye in the key distribution response and the client it\u0027s that there should be the DC uses this parameter to listen for reading messages or the client uses this parameter to listen for aching messages but if the KDC that sends it so I think we will go ahead and implement this proposal so if there are there are no strong objections and then we are happy to get feedback and reviews and comments about this when you actually implement I mean like putting the document okay they document that\u0027s it I\u0027m a bit unclear about this Resta fication what\u0027s gonna be the impact on the current document to justify that if we do so before giving the floor to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:18",
    "text": "Marco you can switch to the so this is a slide from the pub/sub application profile because we got these questions a couple of times so there are these three documents the one I just present in the a ski group calm and then there are two additional documents the coop pub/sub profile at the a ski group home or score and the profile and we get this question how is this document different from the a ski group calm it looks like duplicated text and I don\u0027t see what it adds so now I\u0027m trying to answer the question basically the a ski group on the one I just presented defines a general message format fertilizing and providing keys to group members in the context of group communication it does not specify for what communication transport protocol or what security is used with this the a score pops a profile define specific content of a ski become two profile to use it with coop pub/sub and cozy so it\u0027s using cozy to protect the content of the publication is using coop pops up and the S key group from escort\u0027s defined a specific content and format of the general one to use it with court communication RFC 7390 and using oscar group from as security that\u0027s it that\u0027s the difference between these two questions peter fonda stalker it\u0027s the same remark I made just a few minutes ago it I have to go from undocumented to the other ash for lines go back past four lines in the other documents and that\u0027s the way I make pocus and it\u0027s so bit embarrassing why are these separated like this because when I first came came here with the coop pub/sub profile and that contained everything in one document and then I was told await this is a group communication profile and you can reduce this with Oscar communication and with and with co-op group communication and I said okay let\u0027s do that then I split that up and I said you can reuse this with group communication but you need to structure it differently so I can only do one we need to decide if you want to do one document with all the profiles or we want to do several with a more structure in a different way so like this is the idea base because of a comment from the working group then we can improve for sure on duplicate text "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:18",
    "text": "hopefully we can improve on not repeating text and making it clear but we need to decide on interaction so I I think this is the better direction otherwise we would have a huge document with a lot of different things in it where you would have to jump from one section to the other so that\u0027s it [Music] which one is this doing - rice an update on this application profile is a special instantiation of the drug Francesca just presented this version to also work king group document quick recap but you should be familiar with the main model right now this is about authorizing nodes to join a group where communication is secured using group post call and through the joint process getting the key material necessary to communicate in the group so as a first step a client asks for an access token to the AES the token is posted to the group manager which is the KDC of the general model and in the response it gets back the key material and then can use group of scores to talk to the other group members what is out of scope of this document is authorization for the client to access resources at the very group members hint that\u0027s the next presentation and the actual secure communication in the group well that\u0027s just group who score a few updates from previous version mostly based under here we got from Jim on the previous version of the document and from not big on the latest submitted document most of the things are aligned of course to the corresponding updates on key group home that Francesca presented so some renaming of rosin profile name the use of data structures essentially to negotiate parameters on signature algorithms and such between the joining node and the group manager improve text about provisioning of public keys from the joining nodes and the concede and she checks that the group manager has to perform on them also considering the case one possibly the group manager already has from previous interactions with the joining node its public key we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:19",
    "text": "also extended the negotiation on these public key related parameters and you have fundamentally two approaches to do that at least really embeddable in two ways so that can happen during the talking post and response or during the joint request and response so it\u0027s more as for information versus try on veil also included the proof of possession of the clients private key that we have to slightly improve on just a mention and n dimension in a following slide we have a few open points on these things speaking which I mentioned already approach 1 \u0026 2 for agreeing with the group manager on senior parameters and calling of publications on there\u0027s a third approach it was also presented again this morning in court in a nutshell discovering very advanced the group and through that discovering knowing very early about how the group words meaning algorithms it supports and that can be beneficial for the joining all of course to just forget about the approaches 1 \u0026 2 and angle full-speed for joining our line would be to keep all three approaches in principle supported in the draft without particularly recommending or mandating any and this is fine for everyone take it as a yes when I\u0027m surprised that Kirsten is not coming up to say the choices are bad he says it from from the t1 there\u0027s more which of these we need you so yeah I think this book should be done yes yeah so so the the with this work is looking at the three options and find out what we lose by not doing the specific one of those options and deciding whether it\u0027s was it Francesca as a co-author I think it\u0027s good to keep all these options and let the application decide Justin out from the look of it I guess that as well okay thanks the second point there was a new "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:21",
    "text": "registry also define a key comb actually and in this document instead we are registering a value in it specifying that public is in the group are supposed to be encoded as Kazuki\u0027s and right now we don\u0027t actually have any particular plan to register any other encoding that we cannot even think about but still in principle it\u0027s good to keep the way open for possible future and codings why not but then the point is would be a good registration policy to already suggest for the future here this is a very open question assuming we\u0027re find what made possible future and goings looks like Francesca got an idea Kassadin Francesca I don\u0027t have an idea I really want people to say anything in their mind here because we need help with this we don\u0027t don\u0027t have a proposal we need we need ideas x.509 certificates and and RC 50 70 to 50 public easy potential candidates so I think it kind of seems obvious that there should be a way to register once they are needed policy is probably more on the conservative side like Jim shot from the floor I don\u0027t think the registry is needed I think we should use the cozy heat the the the key confirmation registry this part of the pop document and then it\u0027s there for everybody who wants it and people can register as they need it okay for the proof of possession of the clients private key during the joint request/response exchange it works pretty much as it was extended in Francesca\u0027s comment on this key grow calm of course here also to avoid in Oracle we are about to sign both dances one one got back from the resource server one generated by the client we just don\u0027t think there\u0027s really nothing else to sign in addition to this we don\u0027t need to bring in anything more here and final check so we\u0027ll keep this perfectly aligned with it keep your comments in this ends "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:21",
    "text": "okay and this open point for came from the latest review of loot dig this concerns group freaking so for some reason the group manager has to redistribute the key material in the group practically the ideas core master secret and now the text is saying that when doing that the group manager may take a best effort so that all the group members just continue having the very same Center IDs and the best effort was put there just to live a lot of flexibility to the application the group manager and for instance it can just a factory the sender ad space in case this happens upon many nos leaving but probably it makes sense to consider an alternative or a rephrasing so that the group manager instead must or should preserve the very center IDs for all group members upon a full group working and this is different from a corner case when the goal of the group manager is about tricking a single group member for instance and that can be done by assigning a new center ID exactly to that group member only should we switch and instead the main general case highlighted there where the mass should preserve the same and change and release gym shot from the floor this should be a must because if you don\u0027t do it among other things everyone has to go retrieve all the public keys again and that\u0027s probably not a good idea I\u0027m happy to make it a must thanks blue Drake from Jabbar why would the GM the group manager Shaffer on Sunday IDs okay so this is for the corner case at the bottom of this slide I suppose example if you have a single group member whose sender sequence number ops round it has been formed the group manager for sure and then the group manager has two choices first Ricci the whole group distributing a new master secret altogether and that of course has a big impact on performance there is a shortcut just as secure for the European answer to justice ein the new sender ID - that not only that no derive out of that a new sender key and can resume communicating with sender sequence number used especially we\u0027re starting from zero of course the other group members would have to derive a new recipient context out of that but overall the the reckoning process especially on the wire is more efficient but this is the particular case for an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:21",
    "text": "individual node to rekey for instance for the sake of rope around ok feedback on the implementation side we are continuing on that the rise implementation covering the previous version of all the drafts so essentially the basic functionalities of this profile and we have working progress on aligning implementation of this latest version plus admitting more than one transport profiles so we start with with the details profile where align that also to work when the oscar profile is used between the joining node and the group manager there are also other ongoing planned implementations from peter engine yet we had already some early tests the hackathon with join request and response exchanges between joining now than the group manager of oscar so the summary of course as predictable most of the updates were related to keep in this align to kiku come defining some more details typical to this application profile we have a number of open points some need more thought some are pretty clear among next steps we\u0027ll do our best to simplify shorter the document be to avoid repetition from a comb will have to process the latest review from ludwig step by step more reviews are welcome otherwise we\u0027ll continue implementing and hopefully go for a full interrupt in Singapore [Music] any comment from the room okay this document is instead a new one proposing a new transport profile a base and useful group communication so to secure communication between a client and the resource server both members of a group why did we start this well you have an application using group communication and you want to use group of score to protect the message exchange in the group as I quickly mentioned before once everyone is in the group would you do about access control to access resources at the group members well some use cases are very simple they don\u0027t really need any anything particularly difficult the moment you have been authorized to become a member of the security group and you got the key material in those use cases you can just assume that any member can perform any operation at any other group member at any obvious resource and that can be fine that can be not fine in some more "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:22",
    "text": "complicated use cases where essentially you want to differentiate different types of clients that are allowed to do different things of different resource servers in the group you may think of creating additional security groups as you need this risk scale very poorly you need to create many groups perhaps essentially one for each subset of clients depending on the access rights you want to grant them so instead it will make sense to think of using ace to enforce fine-grained access control through access tokens and then if you consider using Hayes you have a problem if you think of the currently available transport profiles of ace it\u0027s not possible to secure group communication in particular in particular using group of score and every currently available profile is considered a single security protocol even if you think of the the closest possible profile we can think about the oscar profile kind pterosaur service was to use an Oscar and group of scholars just not admitted so bottom line you cannot have at the same time the usage of group of score and an access control of resources at group members based on ace and the reason we started this document is exactly to fill this gap so it\u0027s a new transport profile base group pasquale profile the strongly builds on the score profile we\u0027re using a lot of in construction of its constructions and it essentially admits to security protocols both Oh score and group of score among group members and as a starting point it assumes that the client and restore server using this profile are already both member of a non score group that they have joined in a band you run this profile and as a final result you get a pairwise of score security context between client or server just like this core profile but in addition here you have the access token bound not only to the pairwise context but also to the group of score security context in addition the two different contexts aisle are also bound to each other and that\u0027s because we are deriving the pairwise context using also parameters from the group context properties are the one typical of the expectations from profiles of ace plus here we also have proof of group membership for that exact client posting the token thanks to the bond between the token and a group context to give an overview in a feasible way as Delta\u0027s from the oscar profile first step the client contacts the authorization server asking for an access token as usual it specifies two additional pieces of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:22",
    "text": "information the sender ID has in the oscar group and the group ID of that group as values of two new parameters we are defining for the access token request it is validated by the authorization server that releases the token in the response to the client and then reflected in the access token those values require again mostly for confirmation to the client and for information to the restore server through the exit then the client continues posting the access token others or server and there is an exchange of nonces just like it happens with the oscar profile if the token is valid there is our server stores the extras talking together with those junior additional parameters that the client has specified and that were included in the access token and here is when things get interested for someone interested in the extreme details this is aligned to the second from last version of your score profile but I can skip that now client or server have to derive the pairwise Oscar security context as follows essentially they need to prepare three parameters context the remaster solve the master secret to derive the context about the context ID they concatenate the to nancy\u0027s plus one more piece of information the group ID of the oscar group that by the way the server was able to retrieve also from the access token for the master solved a concatenate two pieces the first one is the sender ID of the client in the oscar group that was also included in the master in the access token for the resource server and if any because it can be empty the master site used in the oscar group context the master secret i concatenate two pieces the first one is the oscar master secret indicated in the access token and provided also to the client as an s-parameter the second piece of information is the master secret of the oscar group and well both client and resource know that because they are both member of the group here\u0027s an example first Peter if the coop it also takes in change this every time you can make a new group is that correct as you see there yes and this is really thing and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:24",
    "text": "it\u0027s a bit annoying maybe because possibly want to specify the subset and you remain that even though the group may change and the coop member changed so if you could just make the first part of the group it there instead of the whole group it I think that would be more stable if one group changed okay okay yes thanks as a quick example first paling between the client and the first or some server so x4 you talk and first specifying the sender ID in the group of the client and the idea of the group retrieve the token passed it to the resource everyone they derive the pairwise Oscar context well the client repeats exactly the same to get an access token to post at the resource server to they derive their own pairwise security context third step there can be for instance first unicast requests with a score from client or server and you can see here the context that is consistently extended and then you have a multicast request protected with record from C to the group and both resource everyone until reply to the client now for versions you don\u0027t have already in a pin point out of a very good discussion we had with Jim during the a curtain thank you in the current design there is a possible risk for impersonation from one group member to hurt another one essentially you may have a node and one in group that asks for an access token but declaring the sender ID of an - and one would get an access token for itself if it\u0027s authorized to you can post it to the resource server but then if it uses all the unicast no score since no strict identity and not no confirmation of the sender ID event - is involved the the consequences of dead action performed legitimately by anyone can be kind of shifted to n2 so the way out for this is involving in the process exactly the public key that n1 uses in the group this can be provided to the AES upon request in the access token and when doing that performing proof of possession then the other ization server can include that public key also in the access token it will be posted on the resource server that can then store the access token paired also together with that public key and that would essentially fix that problem so we plan for sure this update in the next version of the document so as a final summary this is a new transport profile of Ace to admit the usage of Oscar and group of score and a group communication scenario where you need some fine-grained access control on the group members resources "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:25",
    "text": "through ace both unicast pairwise and group context are bound with each other and the access token is bound to both context as well and we are relying as much as possible to a score and these constructions just do not have an insane Delta introduced here of course Commons reviews are welcome thank you Jim shot from the floor do we actually have a real-world use case for the ship or is this speculation we can come up with an example yeah that speculation that speculation I\u0027m not backed up by any real-world example of this case right now yes mine fine so for those who were not following the site discussion on jabber I think there are a number of ace documents and one or two core documents dealing with group communication security now and it might be quite helpful for someone coming to one of these groups as a new participant to have for example a wiki page or an informational RFC that explains how these group communication documents interlink so if someone wants to volunteer to write it up there is a example that Francesca has in one of the drafts but I think having it in one of the drafts is not that helpful Francesca my volunteer history thank you very much "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:29",
    "text": "so I\u0027m back today security for group communication in ace okay so this draft is about co-op pub/sub security community security using ace we\u0027re at version 5 so I already presented this slide by now I hope that I made a case yeah we can we can discuss more on this but hopefully we can keep with the current structure and improve the text so that it\u0027s not as confusing so quick recap on this document this document defines how to use a stew with rice nodes and provision keys for co-op pub/sub the goal is to protect co-op pub/sub communication using the keys provided this RAF was first submitted at IETF 98 it got several reviews and bodies positive feedback and it was then updated following the ACE Group comm updates after the split with that document there is related work that is going on there is the core co-op pub/sub that is close to being done in core and then there is the mqtt pub/sub profile vase that has been adopted in this working group last meeting I believe and then a picture to show the members or participants in this profile so we have the publisher subscriber and the broker and this profile aims at setting and security association between the publishers and the broker and one between the publisher and the subscriber optionally also one between the broker and a subscriber and it uses two different authorization servers there is also what we call the KDC the key distribution center in the general document that is in the same node as the authorization server number so we got a review very recently so we\u0027re planning an update which we would like feedback from the working group about so this comes from a review but yeah so the first request was to generalize the exchange and split split the authorisation and key distribution requests which are now merged into one so to make it more similar to a ski group from a score with the fool first the ACE exchange and then the key distribution requests and response because this was these two requests were merged this was shorter and simpler but we were asked to actually split this out and possibly mention these merge as an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:32",
    "text": "example or an optimization any comments about that question is more general with an optimization example or optimized but less general Jim shot I don\u0027t agree we don\u0027t demised more general no example if you have an example you have to document how to do the example yeah of course and I don\u0027t think it\u0027s working well the example would be what is now in the document with the two merged and with one node that is both a s2 and KDC but that also means that you have to do all the registration and so on and so forth yeah I don\u0027t since it is the text that is already in the document I don\u0027t think that would be very complicated to have but yeah we can I can try and then we can get reviews and see can we understand the document without the examples yeah okay the example would be the example of a more specific case where you merge the KDC and the yes there\u0027s still examples about the general okay so next point we use the Oscar mechanisms to do key derivation and non-stationary play protection so right now the part about actually securing the pub/sub it\u0027s only using cosy and with keys in place and just protecting the content the publication content so now we can make this better by using for example replay protection mechanisms sequence numbers and using the nonce duration that is you know score any comments about that Honus you don\u0027t need no score to implement this I I was just wanting like who provided the feedback to make those changes so this latest review was from Jim but we got to pay we got more reviews also for a previous version such a so you mean might be were people suggesting these these changes are sorry I cannot give you people suggesting these changes that you have up there now this one are only from the last review don\u0027t you yeah yeah they all come from this last review but previous reviews we\u0027re done as well another point is about defining the additional processing processing steps such as encrypt decrypt and verify with the material that would be defined above "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:33",
    "text": "and then finally to do the updates to comply with the updates to a schedule from that I just mentioned in the previous presentation so the biggest change would be the first point and possibly the second but not the content is not yes it wouldn\u0027t change too much so the next steps would be to update first then we see or I think that this document is ready for adoption and I would like to get it adopted as soon as possible so that it can be moved forward with the MQTT pub/sub and mqtt pub/sub authors we\u0027re interested in this because they were interested in the part about protection of the publication content so maybe we can reuse that and synchronize with with them about that part how many people have read to draft any I know that there are more because there are some people\u0027s there they have provided reviews they\u0027re not in the room well I think we will take that to the list that we need definitely more reviews than the hand we\u0027ve seen in in this room maybe that would be good the MQTT people review the draft as well especially if they have to see they have so that they [Music] okay any other business I have one item we had a choral side meeting this week and one of the things that was discussed in that was we need to probably define a choral vocabulary that can be published as part of a choral document so that people can locate things like authentication servers key servers and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:34",
    "text": "whatnot so we need to find some people to to do that and potentially there was a document which presented in court this morning that was a long time ago the defines some link format attributes that do much the same thing and at that point in time I suggested that potentially that document should be migrated into this working group rather than stay in choral since it seems to be mostly focused on Advertising Age features so I expect both of those things to come to the list over the next month or so anyone else have anything else they want to say Ben do you want to say that you\u0027re reviewing documents I thought you were an area director I I do believe I\u0027m an area director that means she can tell a lie yes so I had a very busy two or three months just you know outside of work personal sort of stuff so basically all I was doing for the ietf 5sg was to review documents for the telecoms and so that means I was not reviewing documents for my working groups and things kind of piled up but things in my own life have quieted down in the past couple weeks or so and I\u0027m clearing the backlog and mostly I\u0027m doing it in first and first out but if there\u0027s a reason to prioritize something I\u0027m you\u0027re happy to move things around right now I am in the middle of the CWT pump and I\u0027m gonna do two or three more a Stockman\u0027s after that before you know something else was next in the list but we should be seeing some progress on the east documents in the next couple of weeks so we can hope to have reviews but from you on everything before the end of August yes there\u0027s anybody else wanna stand up and make any statements to the ACE working group okay we will see you in Singapore blue sheet as everyone the blue shit "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:47",
    "text": "you "
  }
]