[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "nated start time oh it\u0027s 10 boom there we go this is the note well oh you\u0027re in the IDR working group you are hoping to be in another working group you picked the wrong one oh this is the no well this is the last time you\u0027ll see it this week I hope but it\u0027s just as important as it was on Monday or Sunday or Saturday so we have it well we are gonna hold the rest of the chairs littering I mean slides for the end and get through the technical content first and sort of with the intention that then if conversation happens to run long on the main thing that we\u0027re gonna cover during our part is Charter stuff so the conversation went short great if the conversation runs long well we\u0027re not running into anyone elses time and we don\u0027t have to cut it off so that yep there\u0027s we have an agenda it\u0027s pretty much like the agenda we\u0027ve posted before except we had to slide one thing from Wednesday on to today but we had enough time so that\u0027s okay so I think non-first okay oh that\u0027s it\u0027s okay I think it\u0027s it\u0027s fine what\u0027s the magic email address you\u0027re supposed to assistance this one\u0027s up yeah so we have a screen over there it\u0027s not ideal [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:16",
    "text": "is next from working yeah yeah okay okay good morning this is an update on the RFC 7750 to draft it was first presented in Prague and I would like to point out that Stefano provide his affiliation is not correctly mentioned in the slide it should be Wow so to recap bt pls has been you know widely implemented and deployed now the best draft came about before Prague to clarify an update on certain things that I would say we have learnt from the development and deployment experience some of the key things which the draft clarifies are you know on the slide here and all of the changes are mentioned in the appendix in the traffic itself this draft would actually obsolete RFC seven seven five two got some good feedback and inputs from the working group members on various aspects and we hope to continue to incorporate and update it as we go along so it focus on so the updates in a version one it\u0027s the key thing is these are the key updates in version one one of them is that the RFC didn\u0027t actually talk about or describe how in the case of OSPF the land subnet would get advertised via BGP are so this has been clarified it\u0027s it\u0027s to be done with a prefix and NRI that is originated by the dr or the sudo node based on feedback there have some changes in the private use code point space and other minor editorial changes to correct clarify an IPR which was declared on RFC 775 to has also been applied to this document adrian has filed that so the remainder of this presentation wanted to you know get feedback from the working group on a few key elements that we have been discussing offline with some of the members the first of that is regarding "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:19",
    "text": "ordering of tlvs in the PGP LS attribute RFC 775 to had this exact text which says that for the NLRA part and to handle unknown tlvs and pepe unknown NL arise all tlvs must be ordered you know an ascending order and also I mean there is more text on the content as well when there is to analyze of the to TL B\u0027s of the same type now some implementations have you know kind of interpreted this to imply that TLB is in DGP LS attribute as well must be ordered the best draft version that\u0027s posted had the text saying that tlvs need not be ordered in any specific way because you know it\u0027s probably not necessary or required but we\u0027ve got a proposal to change this text to say that the producer has to you know sort it but a receiver should not know consider the TL B\u0027s I mean consider attribute as malformed if the TLB is appear in a no unsorted order so this allows implementations - or rather recommends implementations the originators who send in a sorted order but does not consider malformed on the receiver so this is one thing which you would like to get feedback from the group members here and on the list and based on that we would I mean right now the proposal is to go and update as we discuss right now the other key part which you need to discuss and share is this new text been added in the best draft to describe a problem which probably has and might have been overlooked by by developers or people deploying BG pls but at least some folks have you know discovered or found this out over the years and this is in a topology as shown in the diagram here where if the PGP LS producers continue to advertise the topology objects the NL are eyes as they are in the IGP LSP database then it\u0027s possible that in certain certain configuration example for example when it we are distributing wire out reflector or when the consumer application is getting multiple fields that it may get wrong or inconsistent topology view and this is because the BGP LS propagation happens on bgp best "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:20",
    "text": "path which does not which is not really able to determine which LSA or which information is stale and which one is the current one so there have been two options that we\u0027ll go over today the first option is what\u0027s currently proposed in the draft that option says that bgp LS producer should withdraw link state objects associated with nodes which are determined to be unreachable in the underlying IDP computation so how this works is that I GP running on let\u0027s take example of our two-year IDP running on r2 as part of its ITP processing today marks the LSA zor-el s piece of r4 and r6 as unreachable after running its SPF you know when that when this link fails between our so seeing this picture a zero is in area zero okay it\u0027s a wispy of thing yeah and the others are in area one and so in this case the the proposal is that our to actually withdraws the BGP LS n lr eyes corresponding to whatever was originated by r4 + r6 because it\u0027s unreachable we don\u0027t know it may be still the nodes may not be there anymore so on and it\u0027s the other way for r3 so what are 0 learns from r2 and r3 is really it learns from R to the node objects of R 1 and R 5 and from r3 for r4 and r6 so there is there won\u0027t be any stale and essays or LS piece in the BGP database that is the bTW pls rip so this allows the BGP RR and other BGP routers on the propagation path to just follow the BGP best path process now in this picture we have just the r0 here as a route reflector but there are different propagation models some of them which are described in the draft so when you should generalize this for a case where the propagation maybe even happening over a BGP link within a provider network the alternate solution which has been proposed is that the BLS producer continues to advertise whatever is in the IG LSD be without any reachability check so everything which is in the LSD be gets advertised out by a BGP LS and in this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:21",
    "text": "case to account for this this thing about still analyzed that we talked about we need to really propagate all the paths or all this NL our eyes information to the consumer so in this case the B if there is an RR in this picture then the RR would have to do ad path so that it doesn\u0027t filter out let\u0027s say the good NLRA and then if there are other bgp propagators along the way then they must also do you know something similar to add path they also would need kind of originator attribute to be carried along with the BGP LS and NR eyes so if it\u0027s a simple route reflector this thing then the originator attribute originator ID attribute would suffice but they are not carried over ebgp so we\u0027ll have to you know maybe think about how to do that the consumer of the of this field would get multiple copies of the same and NRI information and then it it\u0027s on the consumer application controller or a PC or any other thing to actually figure out what\u0027s the which ones are really the fresh ones and which one are the stale ones so in order to do that what the consumer would have to do is like an IDP kind of a processing where for whatever to college it receives in this picture from r2 and it knows that it is from R 2 because of this originator thing that is carried it has to run its III GPS PF on the topology and then it determines that ok for r2 r4 + r6 were not reachable so no I probably cannot use it similarly I I just don\u0027t understand this the person who\u0027s a who is originating this in BGP will do this you could you know the API could handle this all internally you because OSPF are OSPF for eius eius knows what is and isn\u0027t reachable and and and and so it doesn\u0027t it doesn\u0027t have to be in the draft right yeah so it\u0027s so that was the first proposal that we discuss where the IDP does that and yeah okay so we will go through yeah which is the bullet that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:22",
    "text": "says consumer gets multiple copies of the same NL RI that that\u0027s not unique to this solution is it like in even on the previous slide you know a consumer that\u0027s consuming from both r2 and r3 could end up would end up getting multiple copies of the same NL RI isn\u0027t it it wouldn\u0027t because the r0 would select best path so interpreting suggesting is that if if the consumer is at location R 0 instead of yes yes yes in that case it is and it would it would be an implementation aspect on that device how the bgp and the consumer api is so you are right it it could receive multiple copies or the implementation could run BGP a best path and provide one copy so both things are possible yes it\u0027s a it\u0027s an implementation aspect so after running so consumer learns the topology from the point of view of r2 and then it runs this IGP SPF to determine which are the valid topology set from our two point of view similarly from our three point of and then these together can be kind of consolidated to get actual topology view of the of the network so this is a comparison that come up with on the pros and cons of the two options so for the solution a the pros are that it we don\u0027t need to change the BGP propagation or the path computation rules we don\u0027t need things like add path to be mandated or the new originator ID kind of attribute the pros of the solution B is that it actually provides a complete LSD B view to a consumer application so this is something depending on the application this may be something that is required the cons of the first proposal is that yeah it doesn\u0027t provide the complete view NL arise for nodes which are unreachable would not be presented in this case so it may be something that\u0027s ok for controllers or application like perhaps like a path computation element or a TV topology this thing but for other applications perhaps like a just like a LSD B view kind of a thing that may not be a good way just to point this out when you say it needs a path you mean it needs a path and you need to have everything in a yes yes yes so ad path and yeah the cons of the yeah the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:23",
    "text": "cons of the first other another con is that we have this kind of what I think what a CEO is trying to talk about we have this kind of a dependency between the IGP SPF computation and the origination of NL arise this is not something which was clarified in the RFC 752 concept the other proposal is this ad path and the originator thing we have to do that whenever there are scenarios where multiple views there are like most deployments may have redundant bujji pls originators and in that case this is kind of a requirement it also requires consumer applications to perform this IGP thing that we talked about to determine which are the fresh and a la rise in which one could be the stale as a result of the air paths and you know route reflectors or ebgp routers along the path not being able to run their best path which means we are sending a lot more information in bt pls and kind of caloric corollary of that is that whenever something changes you know change that is propagated to all the controllers or applications redundant stuff so we wanted feedback from the working group on these two solutions and you know how we would like to proceed further you are from we I think the solution is more preferable because we see these variances so the prop eight previous the personal provided a real status of the underlined topology I think the do status of an Arrancar blog is more useful range the complete STP the information look okay you know from Hawaii patronizing the two solutions actually defined who will be responsible for this kind of validation rather the device should do this or the consumer will do additional computation to validate the information collected right so in the I think the post has pros and cons and also consider of whether which one I repeat for the post controller and other devices and we need to collect more information from our team to get the feedback to you sure yeah we don\u0027t have to decide here right now wait chance cutter it occurred to me that there\u0027s one more thing that I\u0027m sure that we could go on and on with pros and cons but one thing that may be irrelevant "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:24",
    "text": "that I thought of as a con on solution a is you know in in the example that you projected there were the right set of feeds to provide you know fresh data from both sides of the partition so that the consumer still gets a complete view of the topology if you imagine that the consumer is just getting the feed from let\u0027s say the left hand side of the topology and or you know no matter what you can always construct a partition such that the consumer doesn\u0027t get a feed from the other side of it in in that case solution a you know disappears information about the the unreachable side of the partition solution B leaves that stuff around so the consumer is able to know oh there was some stuff that was in the topology I can\u0027t reach it now I mean I I think this sort of you know drive in the same direction as solution B is essentially more general in that it exposes the you know as as with as much fidelity as possible the entire LSD be toward the consumer at the cost that you noted which is that the consumer has to be a little more sophisticated okay and so we have to ask ourselves you know are we trying to tailor this to one particular set use case or set of use cases and does the consumer actually you know need to be able to have that sort of simpler implementation I I guess the way I\u0027m presenting my my observation should make it obvious I kind of prefer solution B but it\u0027s you know it\u0027s it\u0027s just from a desire to retain generality when possible I\u0027m not not for it any more specific than that thank you yeah so I think that\u0027s a very good point and it depends on the what kind of consumer application we are looking from point of view so if we look at something like path computation or a tea engine then the nodes which are unreachable for it it cannot compute for them or consider them in the topology so for those kinds of applications it does not matter to have the you know LS DB view another thing which probably I should point out is that the bt pls topology view is not like the inventory view of the topology so I would expect applications and things who are working on that that they have like some other mechanisms to have okay this is my actual physical topology or this thing and the BGP LS is only providing let\u0027s say like more like the operational state kind of a thing so it also depends on what the consumer application is expecting so I agree that it\u0027s a lot of things are from the perspective of the application I think just my perspective "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:27",
    "text": "to this VG pls if you look at it if it is a topology propagator then it is different from consumer so in that sense consumers job is to really get multiple copies and figure out what the right thing to do and BGP a list you know it\u0027s just a propagator of the quality that sense solution B will be more generating mapping sure I mean and just to clarify we don\u0027t need to necessarily pick between a and B I mean technically both could be allowed and stuff like that ya understand here regarding the fidelity comment and essentially suppression of information why are you doing that today because sequence number is not propagated so if we really want to say that we\u0027re trying to provide a full view of the link state database we should be looking at adding those attributes as well which then causes an explosion of information data passing processing so I think from the point of view that it suppresses data it\u0027s a valid argument but the cost of not suppressing that data and the computation required in order to satisfy I she\u0027s making use of it is quite expensive and I would question for what right most consumers are looking at using the GPS data for connectivity information not necessarily link state database information that\u0027s correct I mean I would agree with the angle here and it\u0027s important fact to know that we do not have the ability to communicate sequence numbers and an IDP LSD be without sequence number is kind of like blind in some sense so I think it\u0027s thanks and so I fully understand complexity introduced by solution B I don\u0027t see a justification to do this compared to a where it\u0027s cleanly you withdraw what you lost and not sure controller really need to know about history and there\u0027s other elemental information is coming from different places so keep it simple less bugs to be a student of Cisco Systems I agree I mean less is more you know you you know give them what\u0027s reachable not not that\u0027s true topology not what\u0027s therefore in a you know another you know it doesn\u0027t doesn\u0027t timeout for hours right in an hour anyhow SPF and even longer in is is right so yeah so I think got a sense but we\u0027ll continue this probably the discussion on the email thread and yeah a couple of other things one is on Ayana allocation rules so there has been some discussion on how to do this for bgp LS to make it you know simpler and faster I think Adrienne has you know posted a draft which tries to cover that so we can see how to incorporate the changes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:29",
    "text": "whether in this draft or that we can both okay so the next steps on this is some editorial fixes based on you know comments received from Adrian and some other folks as well and I would request to give feedback based on your development and deployment experience and we continue to you know this to this discussion on the list and evolve the craft but we\u0027d like to ask for working group adoption from how I have one more comment about this update there\u0027s a one saying one change in this increased draft which is maybe inconsistent with the PGP RSVP dropped about the link local remote identifier in the link district critters so maybe we need to take a look about that Alicia could could you share that on the list and okay we\u0027ll try to incorporate Thanks [Music] yep good morning everyone Charlie from Hawaii my topic today is a past segment in BGP and Mitch Pierre\u0027s so basically the motivation is in our SM pairs we have to insert a post segment to identify as a pass because packet comes to the ingress that egress cannot identify which the post the package belongs to so we propose the amperes per segment in ITF draft spring amperes per segment and it is a ITF working group spring working group item right now so similarly we propose an SME 6po segment in spring working group as well so in that case the in s a v6 the segment list may not be a good key to identified in sv6 pause assailants of the c list is too long and flexible yeah so we create a new SEC segment called the Savi six per segment identica identified and Savi six per segment pass so to in order to collect "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:33",
    "text": "in allocate the pass information per segment information we need some extensions in BGP and Beach PRS so that is what we have done so the first of all we we update the draft Lea idea as a policy for segments to replace the previous one and coralie idea as a policy postman distribution due to the the the name cuz the name is too long and is unavailable to upload so the second one is the GPRS extension draft so the main ideas is we create invent we add a new path segments of theory in under the SAC segment leads to sub T of each identifier Inessa path so that is the format of this TV I will not go into the details of these formats and priests go to review the draft and and also we we create some new sub theory to describe the bi-directional post in BGP first of all the first one is a bi-directional posit TV and the second one is reverse post segment list sub theory regarding the reverse pass segment least sub TV is shared same sub theory which the segment least sub theory yep so the make updates this term is added we add new causes from Jim from China Telecom China Telecom and his 1 and Chen and we also add just the comment from Shara har hatch and and we add ina allocations port and also we add text to specify the path segments of tier V that can appear at two level switches which are a candidate cost and segment least so that\u0027s what we have done this ITF and let\u0027s quick do a quick review of the next draft basically we feel that the same thing right so that is a format and this is the same for the extension in BGP errors and that is update and next step welcome to review and your comments are always welcome and by the way we think we are ready for walking through abduction so we request for working review and adoption any questions if you haven\u0027t already sent the adoption call to the mailing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:33",
    "text": "list no no yeah okay I will yep thank you [Music] hello Iran I\u0027m too young Ching from Tron telecom my presentation is possum queue in PDP and pprs other we all know in traditional amperes the possum queue can be a signal that we are signaling protocols like rsvp-te an RDP Huayra there is no additional signal yet to establish segment routine passes so as a channel cannot currently supports the negotiation mechanism of the path MTU when seats are inserted into the packet the packet a rupee dropped in ipv6 or fragmented in 4d since the packet size may exceeds the patent you as Fortran telecom mmm I thought on Telecom when we deploy the leased line over multiple Minds we usually need to know the path MTU if not if not the car thermal packets size may exceed may exceed the minimum I\u0027m cure among the among the node along the path then it will then the package can be talked all elementadd this record this will cause loss whole prop along thus we propyl the toothbrush the first one a draft true idea be GPRS handsome Q which twist by the extension through PGP in state to carry a maximum transform units messages a link the second one a draft the idea I saw Holliston possum q which defines extensions to PDP who distributes has some new information within as a policies let\u0027s have a look the first draft the first graph the draft defines a new sub care way to add to the link attributes stairway which p.m. - it shall be since ft60 326 has defined us Subterra way to advise the ampulla link in destruct we reused the therapy the format of the fabric Larrabee is a stone below "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:33",
    "text": "whenever there is a change yeah I\u0027m Q value represent represented by link attributes tier V P GPRS should be reordered in each priority niche the respective share away with the new theory with a new amp you value the in the controller calculates the path MTU the second draft define a new sub Carraway a new segment lead south carry in as a policy as but a draft ITF IDR segments routing T policy defines the SR policy structure as big one each SR pass has a spasm Q so p.m. qtr away should be in that hitch into the segment list sub Carraway let\u0027s have look the format of this cherry Lynch is the total length of the value field not including high underlays fields the reserve the fields a 16-piece law and must be set to zero on transmission and must be ignored unless each person 2 is for bias value of Pithom 2d octaves the value can be calculated by central controller or other devices basic based on the information that I learned the via RT p LP DVRs are other means whenever the pass and Q of a physical or logical interface it\u0027s changed a new as a policy with new pass and Q information should be updated accordingly by PGP comments are calm Shaarawy stink up the opossum QT avi format in us our policy with the one in PDP rise Thank You Justin Sarah who would be the consumer of this information PC controller what why would you distributors who is the consumer of this information consumer who is going to use this information and for what purposes it should be the controller and the ingress node so we already distributing MSDS for both SR on the service six and they\u0027re taking the consideration by PC when they compute a pass do we need this additional information how it\u0027s going to interrupt this MSD date House PC going to decide compute number of sips versus number of bytes how do you see this working it\u0027s like we have to get the information of this person to you and then we update installed or send information to the ingress such as within the as a policy "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:35",
    "text": "then I suppose that we walk and we can discuss this out offline it looks like somewhat redundant given that MSD data is already there we know exactly how to form full stack and what should be in it yeah that would be an option okay don\u0027t worry I think Jeff doesn\u0027t mention dynasties for the label status taps right I just hear the MTU week I\u0027m curious about the capability of the leading clean the transit in the intermedia in the notes links network so this is there\u0027s different capabilities of the past yeah maybe you need to consider both in when you encapsulate the papers that the interruptions and clear and somewhat complex so if you could address it will be great jeff has I have two comments for you the first comment first one\u0027s more of a question this is a problem for RSVP as well but for links that are linked aggregate groups legs sometimes one of the problems is that there are miss provisioning zuv them to you and some of the component like elements do you see any way in your mechanism so to show that sorry I can\u0027t understand I will take my questions mailing list okay thank you hello good morning present this document this was presented in best as well and we have this ok for a sauna be six plus this was presented in couple different working groups in this IDF feel free to look into that presentation for more details but just giving little bit more details or very brief overview of what a survey 6 plus is all about the one that is relevant for this particular you know group is a service Express gives you a unidirectional link path connecting between the two robbers and a survey 6 plus also provides you programmable instructions that you can send from the egress into the ingress to to tell what what they work what the work can be done and also this particular thing completely relies on the ipv6 data plane "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:35",
    "text": "on the other hand BGP the old way with all the VPN services has been going through on multiple different tunnels made MPLS IP alley so that so simple problem statement we all know about this picture the thing that is special in here is the underlay is a 36 + sr b 6 + introduces like i talked about multiple types of instructions one that is relevant here is a for path service instruction EPS I referred in this document and it\u0027s our v6 + puts this puts this V psi in the destination options header the second destination options header that should not be v6 Datagram header and all the P routers in the network they do not look into the into this header therefore their P psi unaware and Pease use these obvious instructions for the basic or can use this be psi information for providing the beeping connectivity so the proposal is let\u0027s leverage what we have today which is using the tunnel encapsulation attribute Italian cancellation to signal that you can establish a tunnel and that means a service it\u0027s plus path is considered like a tunnel between the English in the egress and the specifics of the tunnel in capitation attribute is listed down here we are requesting a tunnel pipe for a survey six plus and all sub TLB specifically the tunnel endpoint protocol type and color can be used to influence what gets in into this tunnel and some of the others appeal ways as mentioned the tunnel encapsulation document are not needed which is what I\u0027ve listed down here the special thing is what that online encapsulation document talks about which is the embedded label handling sub TLV it only talks about one and two this document introduces the value three value three is explicitly saying that the ingress when it when it knows that the encapsulation when it knows the extended label handling value is three it\u0027s so it\u0027s so that the we embedded label value that is there which is the p PSI is to be put into the destination options header right so in other words the p PSI can be treated like an embedded label in all the in codings that we have for the IP VPN or the evpn in a lares here is a couple examples the document lists few more and then you know I got feedback you know forgot to remove some statements on the PDMP ignore that in the document but the encoding is we are going to leverage all the encoding schemes that we have for the various NLRs on the LCVP inori VPN just that in the embedded label field you\u0027re going to take the three bytes of the of the P psi P psi is defined as the 32-bit we don\u0027t need 32-bit we just need the 24 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:35",
    "text": "bits and that can be embedded into the label field for both the various encoding that we have for bgp from a procedures perspective let\u0027s take aggress egress by psi P psi is isolated the forwarding table which is the bridges were that is used for D muxing the s5 level and P psi is encoded in the embedded label we talked about in the previous slide and along with this NL RI which is calling this SR b6 + NL RI the tunnel incompletion attribute has to be sent so that you are signalling to the other remote bgp speaker that you are interpreting this in a survey 6 + inner type on the ingress the P psi is constructed you get the 24 bit and you\u0027re going to construct the P psi actually identify your that is forwarded that is programmed with the forwarding table in the S wave to say this is here\u0027s my P psi and here the prefix and the nature of data plane is is mentioned in the survey 6 plus document that Ron talked about so it gets into the destination of since header the P routers ignore it and the PE receives it figures out which is the final VPN that it needs to process the packet to going to the C E and and and thinks about questions comments and then this is going to be more on the best so not you know request for accepting is not in this any other questions thank you Thanks and just for those of you who weren\u0027t in best and you know correct me if I get this wrong but the guidance from the best chairs was first let\u0027s see what you know spring wants view with that\u0027s our v6 plus and then if spring says great we\u0027re gonna work on v6 plus then they\u0027re like yeah this draft is completely appropriate for best but they\u0027re not gonna proceed with we\u0027re group adoption until they they know you know sort of what spring wants to do with the technology sure that\u0027s really done yeah thank you yeah hello wait who are you there yes yes give me me yes we hear you yes thank you so good morning everyone today I\u0027m going to present SR pass increased protection next page so subwoofer critical traffic "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:37",
    "text": "with ham chop and the live traffic may transported by SR pass for example so we may have SR cast from a bank to New York Stock Exchange and then this SR path will be used to sender request for buying or selling stock so when we use the as a pass to connect operational room and the doctor\u0027s office for support remove the surgery and so on as we can see we need a protection for this area\u0027s past if this SR pass get broken we can see that we make it have a big loss so next page we have a te aerospace 40 years piece we have end-to-end advanced protections for example we have a TLP increased fast production already have RFC\u0027s we have a midpoint protection for tlvs we have our sleeve of 40:19 we also have fast protections for each result of geographies however for SR pass we only have a few individual drafts these drafts propose some solutions for me the pro in fast production and the equals for faster production for a therapist we don\u0027t have fast production for SR pass English note so that I think there is a need or requirement for provide faster productions for SA pass English note next page great now PCPD has already descended for support as a passport Ana setup we have a pgps our policies so using this PTP extension we can send information to English lot of essa past so with this information English note can set up as as a possible kana so is Rachel and a very easy to extend PPE to allow PCC student information to pack - English - note and then with this information by cab impersonal can set up a bike hub as well as a pass so as well as a limited resource affairs we can very quickly to import traffic into the backup as a pass so in this way we can provide a fast production for failure of English note so with this parts production will give us a lot plus those proposals for me the point of fact partisan and equal of equal richness partition we have fast "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:40",
    "text": "and to end SF has protections so what kind of information do we need under pi Kappa in casinos to set up a bike a pass to provide a stop protections for primary ingress note next page will provide those emissions next page so you wanted to set have a backup pass to provide protection for English note so we need those disinformation first we need the information for pi cabassa as a pass we may need an information for primary use note in addition we may need information for the surface which is transport transported by the SR pass with furthermore we may need the description of traffic which is transported by the as a pass for some of this information we can encode in we can reuse the SR policy well we just need a very small changes to existing si policies to just like encoding all these informations next page so right now we have a as a policy signature so we just needed to have a small extensions to existing as a policy encoding so here we just define Elsa past or tunnel ingress protection opportunities so all the other information is existing is insidious our policy so the extinction in strange Angela we here is in blue color which is mainly the esta tunnel ingress protagonist of chopper TV so under this activity we have a couple of sapaterre of these such as primary interest soffit LV and the service staff at LV so next page so for El Cercado increase protections dr. P so we have a flag so this planet has indicated whether well let the forwarding entry for by cap as a path whether is active or inactive better indication so in this activity we may have a couple of optional sapaterre of these so this optional sub will be may include primary English note address and the surface ID or status labels so we\u0027re look those of sapaterre these next page so enquiries a primary aggressor IP v4 or ipv6 address secretaries so they establish a V just contain "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:42",
    "text": "either the ipv4 address over the primary he was not or ipv6 IP address of the primary English note so next page so another set of subtly is a surface surface of sub TV because we know SFA\u0027s may carry some surface so this surface will be identified by a surface ID or several labels so we here we have Sabadell the service the labels a priori which it contains 20-piece labels which is which is used to identify a surface which is carried by as a pass so another surface ID surface may be identified last by service IDs which may be served to Pete\u0027s society or 128-bits surface IDs yeah language here I think that\u0027s all about the SSR extension as pp extension for support as on equal protections so any comments and suggestions anybody not okay thank you very much so any forces can come over here wait we will we did not have any questions and over thank you so much for the presentation as soon as we find your slides Jeff your offer yes you did submit them let\u0027s say it\u0027s a PowerPoint PDF impedance mismatch so if you want to start talking I can get started so I\u0027m Jeff has I\u0027m here presenting for some of my colleagues ruffle and company and what we\u0027re going to see here is a relatively trivial mechanism for passing along colored labeled routes using BGP the use case is with all of this fun srte stuff that we\u0027ve been doing over the past several years we have some beads to pass around information in a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:42",
    "text": "very simple mechanism to reach from one PE to another PE in an inter domain fashion and clearly we have all sorts of mechanisms that then going around that work great for na s we have as examples know each POS being used we have cases where people are doing pieces up it should be policy srte but the inter-domain case is a little messy and this is the point where that\u0027s late for stuff as I mentioned this is on behalf of Lois and I raffle next slide please so again like I said the the big big thing here is we\u0027re trying to provide a tool for end-to-end transport for stuff next slide please so as we all know 4s are no te type applications no colors the way we tend to refer to things so you know SRT he route does need inter domain treatment as well obviously the intradomain aspects are covered by a ton of draft so I\u0027m not going to spend any time in the slide deck disk discussing this next slide please and as the Craig slide in has been mangled would you flow the PowerPoint please this is PowerPoint presenting on you know whatever they have on these Chromebooks okay I can quickly generate up a PDF I I will submit it at later update for everybody to look at the information then there\u0027s not terribly interesting let\u0027s go back to full screen the the diagram in question that we\u0027re missing is just simply a network that shows a inter domain component on the right hand side where you have reflector in the middle and you\u0027re exercising normal srte type into mechanisms we have colored routes and we pass it to an a s on the left hand side at the a s border you know we were passing around you know the new labeled colored route label color unicast is what we\u0027re doing here next slide and again this is not terribly interesting at first I use the new submission tool and usually it can auto converts on its own and it didn\u0027t do bail something for the tools team "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:43",
    "text": "next time so the format that we chose Falls the 3107 this draft became RFC very recently it\u0027s 8277 you know PHP labeled unicast very boring you normally have you know prefix which has labels at the top and the actual prefix at the bottom use this for all sorts of BGP things right now the thing that\u0027s changed is that we\u0027re going to next slide hi Jeff it\u0027s Adrian while we wait did I catch you saying that the the agreement of the colors between the domains had to be made how about we get to that in a second ah good question damn I was trying to you know excellent question it\u0027s in the cell know something say well I will save the entire room by avoiding singing may singing voice you know you heard outside the shower please don\u0027t request response another question I see the metal slicing is imagine Dean while the page yeah yeah yeah it also can completely ignore the fact that the pure business thing should be gone it\u0027s just the PowerPoint templates I apologize for that so at the like said this is very simple proposal labelled color unicast we\u0027re just simply adding in a color along with the labels now the position of the color is there to allow us to do things like wild card on color which is a application for some people\u0027s SR networks the color value is sky color value zero has been reserved as you\u0027ll see in the draft the draft is very heavy on use case and we realize the use cases will probably need to be trimmed down after working group adoption but the whole idea is to get people socialized with some of the things that drove us to talk about this the one thing that\u0027s a little bit on the interesting side is since this is covering s are cases we realized especially with ipv6 no destinations that the number of labels would probably outgrow the size of a single peach BL or I you know with the standard one byte encoding so the only other thing that\u0027s a interesting change in here is that we offer the flexible one or two bytes length encoding that we use for b2b flowspec now those procedures are well documented and gives us the ility to put on more since no on the stack if necessary next slide please so attribute considerations no so the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:44",
    "text": "remote next hop no this is what you would use for the service routes that resolve over these things obviously you match this based on a color community just like they do for other SR purposes we\u0027re not changing that this is not interesting color extended community is the way we typically do this we\u0027re generally recommending exactly one one of the issues that we think needs to be brought up to best as a general Lynch general item this a lot of these magic communities are not really well defined when they\u0027re multi instanced so now we\u0027re trying to clarify that in the draft for our specific no else you trout\u0027s first thing the tunnel and capture a tribute should not be carried to e being the plumbing of favor of the day we suspect this may all eventually come up with something that they want to put in there anyway but this is what we\u0027re saying today and in cases where you actually want to utilize this along with prefix id\u0027s that is actually allowed next slide please so okay back up slightly please there we go so a question that we\u0027ve received and this was actually part of our discussions when we were trying to figure out what our favorite encoding should be as we know we\u0027re not the IETF encoding spends that you know a lot of our discussion time but really the functional thinking is what we really should be discussing know so why not the existing tunnel of caps encoding you know that actually carries endpoints it carries colors and the cable stacks know we can do everything in here the problem that we have is that in terms of BGP propagation characteristics and how we want this stuff to behave that an inner domain basis then Ori key really needs something that disambiguate multi instances of this and since the thing we\u0027re trying to carry around and distinguish really is just color we wanted to make this part of the key and once you\u0027ve done that you\u0027ve taken away significant portion of the motivation for the tunnel and caps attribute now of course we could do other things to get that diversity and there couldn\u0027t have a roughest Englisher could be ad paths the problem is we want something that gets carried in true domain so we end up in this big resolution and of course we\u0027re not particularly set on any specific encoding we just happen to think that for the use cases we\u0027re discussing this probably makes it that sense we\u0027re happy to take discussion on this next slide please and again this is you know domain independent you know this can be using for any know tunneling technology at the other side could be srte RSVP you know etc etc as long as we actually can carry the intent over there and express in the color and you know it resembles MPLS you know LCU encoding works perfectly fine and this is BGP this means that as it crosses domains operators get to be in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:44",
    "text": "full control of what they actually do next slide so it was Adrian actually managed to bring up a question early on what do we do about color conflicts the current proposal does actually presuppose that we\u0027re going to have the set of provider that are using this technology agreeing on a color across things this was the most contentious bit of our internal discussion and with the people that are very much lacking operational the exposure fact that the operators can\u0027t agree on you know the value of one no first officially small values of one sometimes and part of the discussion here was what do we do if ATF decides that you know we can\u0027t agree on these things this does it probably involve some sort of middle layer we have actually had a discussion that really color in an intra domain basis becomes a namespacing issue everybody internally is going to have their own color namespacing the question is can you carve out a space that you all can agree on for the things that you really care about being aired main idea being that for multi ASU tend to have two deployments right now to define strategies the first one is it\u0027s really the same organization with multiple asses and therefore they can come to some sort of agreement the other one being actual separate providers where the coordination does not exist one of the things we can do about that potentially long term now as I mentioned you know we have options to put some sort of disambiguating thing on there and that disambiguation whether it\u0027s a route distinguisher a domain distinguisher to pick whatever name you actually want to assign to the thing allows us to potentially namespace the intradomain version of this color so the inter domain red that you agree on across three asses may locally map to your red your blue your green internally and we did have had discussions about we could do these sorts of things but the thing I pushed them to do for the first version of the dis draft is let\u0027s start with the simple case and see know who stands up in the mic and says well you haven\u0027t thought about this well we did think about this let\u0027s start with simple convince this otherwise we do have a back-up plan but now in terms of part of our headache here is scaling the motivation for this at least one of the easy motivations for the inner domain case is slicing you know the ecology that we failed to bring up that\u0027s going to involve potentially the case with you\u0027re trying to provide endpoints for tens of thousands of you know endpoints in your system and when you start scaling that out with no stacks for each of them you know four never exciting especially using SR if you\u0027re not providing aggregation of some sort the cross product of your endpoints versus the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:46",
    "text": "colors you\u0027re providing these things for can potentially be huge so that I think also will motivate the question of what we do about name spacing so again summary we\u0027re trying to provide a simple mechanism very similar to 3107 8277 for inter AAS carrying of colored labeled routes we know that there are some considerations in terms of agreement and options that we can do if that ends up not being a good generalized solution and passed that point we\u0027re looking for discussion in potentially adoption yeah a transparent again so I I\u0027m glad you\u0027ve recognized it\u0027s a hard problem I\u0027m not quite sure that you\u0027ve recognized how hard it is I hate to do the the we\u0027ve been here before that we we have tried this several times before once at least was MPLS traffic engineering mm-hm I\u0027m sure you\u0027ve got people within your own organization who were there at that time and can share with you I\u0027m happy to chat offline about quite how difficult this is it\u0027s a it\u0027s not just a name space thing it\u0027s a policy problem absolutely it it\u0027s sort of order of n factorial it ends up being certainly the power of one way to look at it since these things are intended to be passed along inter-domain top I have one of the things that this is a read between the lines and the current draft in terms of the recursive resolution properties and since you some since we have actually gotten challenged we need actually talk about this you know this is a 13 group decides that there they go the general idea is that when you\u0027re passing around the sort of abstracted versions of the color that you\u0027re using for inter-domain purposes and a hot basis you can use a attached color community to help you locally resolve you know inter-domain red to local blue and those colors can be reset on in bas PRS and that works for sort of like the one dimension but then there are multiple inter-domain Reds because each commercial relationship between the multiple operators it will have different definitions of inter-domain red and so you need like a double indirection somebody tried a business model for this at one point being a broker of this and and they\u0027ve burnt some money and then went away yeah unfortunately this stuff eventually starts smelling like Route distinguishers you know and that\u0027s the encoding that that we\u0027ve discussed it\u0027s really been medicine work online on my points similar trade routes yeah it\u0027s a fairy tale that you could just agree on bodies do I remember correctly that the actual namespace size is 30 bits do - "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:48",
    "text": "yes so this will start to feel fairly similar can I suggest that we ask someone to write large colors absolutely in action because if we\u0027re going to try and use some sort of intermediate mapping that only exists in the kind of no-man\u0027s land between two assets those are likely to be names based on the basis of an AAS and immediately we run into a namespace size problem so my admirer you know my terminal hunch colors is kind of telling it tongue-in-cheek but it\u0027s almost exactly the same problem as standard communities absolutely then you\u0027re Adrian did bring it up correctly so no it does name just pairs of a s is this made nobody sets of a asses and the sets of a asses may be different depending on context and therefore you end up with all these different disjoints ideas of what things mean no Redmayne e maybe means for federation set a and federation said be completely different things you just need a way to disambiguate them the question sort of comes back in terms of encoding you simply make a very very large global value so do we move from 32 to 128 bits and assume that for all the disjoint sets we can come to some of our agreement out of that my guess is probably not and I think this probably pushes us more to something looks like a route distinguisher in terms of you\u0027re able to set up for Federation a namespace one red means this and that you can disambiguate it with something that actually has a global allocation mapping yes I think probably the kind of a pairwise approaches it\u0027s gonna be the best one I think in so I\u0027ve done kind of the the equivalent exercise to negotiate mappings for traffic classes and kind of you know option BNC VPNs usually what that boils down to in that context is someone gets to kind of own the namespace and the other person is responsible for mapping in and out of it that is that\u0027s a hassle for the person that has to do the mapping right so I think in this case if we want to avoid that problem what you want is a large enough main namespace that you have a namespace perp here you know so in the context so take given given a s1 and a s2 are inter connecting they want a unique namespace to identify the the mappings that exist on that adjacency so is it / adjacent so you talking about / a s there Jason C / s topology graph adjacency they may usually appear on the in the business sense not the yes yes exactly right and again I believe this actually extends to this set of a s as they may be participating because if you have a s is 1 2 3 in a chain that need to have this agreement as well yeah probably from a protocol perspective that\u0027s rare that that matters from a actual engineering perspective because probably those two "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:50",
    "text": "those two links in that chain on actually being stood up at the same time and from a practical perspective you\u0027re needing to deal with needing to abstract the details the one from the other anyway right and I think where the but you know the suggested encoding and easing a distinguishers sort of nice is it gives you a just like for a route targets you have to pick somebody is a s to be the no crew to the namespace and then pass that you can know a namespace out of that this allows you to map all the functional equivalence classes for the different it\u0027s no agreed-upon color into one place and the fact that you know I think may be different than some of the other proposals I\u0027m a little rusty on some of my historical reading the fact that these things can recursively resolve and a half I have basis and the ASPRS you know via color community to their local tables I think solves at least some of the older problems in the sense that you don\u0027t have to worry about what does this mean and have this giant translation table your standard beach be no community policy applied that the SPRs can do most of your how to map from the intradomain version to this domains equivalent of it yeah most of what I was gonna say what has already been said I not terribly operationally experienced but I would believe most people will do this mapping at the boundary anyway and I rather have a good way to make that work than try and do the generic thing happens in to Nokia um Jeff I guess one of the things that occurs to me and this is likely what\u0027s gonna happen if people are using us our policies for the slicing I likely to use binding sits at the boundaries and to some degree I think that helped us a little bit doesn\u0027t it because when we we enter into a binding said the binding of the traffic isn\u0027t based on color anymore it\u0027s based on the label so I would think that that actually does give you a bit of a decoupling mechanism a little bit but it comes sort of an ad path type problem you know so if you have in the technology to fill the show a red path across the top and the blue path across the bottom that\u0027s inner domain to the same endpoint yeah at the endpoint at Vegas there\u0027s something that you\u0027re pure transit in the middle I mean in theory he wouldn\u0027t necessarily to normalize to the colors at the endpoint he could he could normalize to a different set of transport schemes and offer boxes anyway just a thought with it it\u0027s the usual mapping problem and you actually expose snow for the same actual endpoint more than one address or do you provide different label stacks the trouble is if we look at something in terms of a HB link labeled unicast type encoding the labels themselves are not a key so that doesn\u0027t help you inter-domain so you need one additional thing people think colors for these types of things for slices anyway at least in that context and for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:50",
    "text": "important thing is this is just an encoding color is a common scheme that makes SR people happy and TE people happy it\u0027s effectively just a distinguished route distinguisher that you can use your path with policy that\u0027s it thanks for the questions we heard partially what we were expecting that the simplified version was probably too simple our likely next step is to bring back the next version of the draft the things that we had discussed in there and then after that look for adoption thank you okay however I think I\u0027m the last presentation and for today\u0027s Emily Lake it comes from Maui okay so this presentation is for bgp requestor for to control her to lat the controller advertise candidate the pass for energy policy so this is the presentation is title and before I introduce the detail about the protocol encoding and so on masta to introduce the let\u0027s talk about the motivation about this topic first in the left of the slides we can see and they had under they as a policy and can be informed by the variants including CRI not calm peace app or BGP from the controller to Caturday as a policy and the candidate pass they so defined in the springs draft ice apology considerations so but when we can get all this information from controller sure we can get all the ice our policy tunnel science our policy entries from the controller at the beginning of the may being created and initialed but it\u0027s not so friendly for the small boxes in our network that means if we can have a trigger method trigger mechanism for the head of ingress of the VPN or they can had and of the PE and to get the policy under the pass from the controller on the mound is better for the small boxes of our in our network so in some situations had and may want to pull one or a set of Canada the pass from the controller or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:50",
    "text": "PCE rather than just attach all this information at the beginning of the opinion issued so if we we can open up this protocol has defined the request and the reply messages in RFC 5 4 0 to match this requirement that means they can we can ask PCE to give them the as list all candy they pass all day anything else from the controller when they want but I\u0027m also to say we use PDP from controller together as our policy and Canada pass bit but BG\u0027s piece update message or some other add messages cannot to request this one so all this document I defined adjusted to find a mechanism for BGP to similar with percept you got a request from the controller together the candidate pass to get the is our policy so we can see in the right-half test light that means when they had and maybe got some some special prefix with special attribute or special colors or anything else and his this is even to trigger they had on the can request as a policy from controllers so ii deposit is like that but to the surplus is from the controller to download the policy or canada passed to the head and and so i have different colors with the step one two three that means actually this document the chasity find the step two but one and three is already exist and so this is just a brief of the motivation and this is a little detail about the process and to talk about how about the scope of this document which one is the inside this document which one is out of scope so the first stab the head under to decide to get a new candidate pass from the controller based on some trigger event such as I have said received some special customer routes way the special color with special attribute it\u0027s just the example because the the trigger event is the trigger mechanism is out of our scope to defined actually is for more like configuration or Muraki engineer to decided - pre-configured so this is out of our document but the stab to the head and when decided to ask this information that means that he will create BGP update message this update messages encoding is it\u0027s it\u0027s no any change but we add some new sub t always - for the constraints for the compute constraints so this is inside of our document defined and the stepped step three is for controller to receive these old conference from the head and they will calculate the as list Sekhmet the list for whether this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:51",
    "text": "constraints and then to download the eyes our list to the head and and so this is step three and step four all this one three four is out of the scope of this document some is defined in IDR after some is defined in spring draft so this is just for this tab choose a BGP upstate upstate messenger for some constraints to ask to the controller so actually it\u0027s not very complex for this document so this is for the encoding of the update message and some new sub theories update the updates messages follows for the existing IDR draft signal routing policy that means Safi RI and policy color and point field anything is the same we just gave added extinguisher with a special special value with of\u0027 to tell the controller is a request it\u0027s for request it cannot be used for pass select or anything else so this is a little special in this field and we add five new sub t always for the candidate past constraints are our SP attributes as the factor my trick i are and the load balancing this v sub t away scenes for constants for the past calculate so this is a little different I don\u0027t I don\u0027t I don\u0027t write too much things in the slice you can you can read in our document i justa to brief to say how about today so t always constraints first one is for the RSP attribute actually is for the affinity uno in PCE and so are we just linked affinity and the color to match whether this pass will follow some affinities so the first sub java is for the our spear attribute for for for affinity this always actually define the yeah our pc ours and three is three two zero and a five four four zero and the secularization factor this is for the two large hat and to ask this owes as lists whether have some sorry so for link device that means but this all sig mentalist master dot with the same link in common note devices means without the same note as our risk linker ultimate that means will not share the same link some risks linked group so this is for two logic controller to come to compute all these segmented lists between the mature link device or no device or some risk linked "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:53",
    "text": "groups okay so this is the second sub t OE and 30s for metric actually for the segment segment routing actually this is more important for the t this ticket with the eleven it so defined arpa-e P Sigma the routing craft to tutor light controller know how maximum as see the tabs should be should be calculate if if exit the maximum said that pass will not be established so this is just a for the metric and the seat tabs to true light controller to computer the past and the force is for IR magnets include route that means to Latin controller know if the past must be travel with some note of some seed or only and all this DDOT finding it so defined they are say in the PCE and in the sacrament routing and so on so then almost are the same but it is defined in your BGP message so last one is load balancing is a little different in our as a policy it\u0027s it\u0027s just because we have some weight for different athletes so here age define our load balancing sub theory with max maximum as least that means to let the controller know how many athletes they should be including the new one-handed pass so this is a lasted here way so actually this old master did she always in the update messages just at your logical controller to computed the past the ice released away some constraints and there\u0027s no other no other things so some details should be in our document so this this document is very single for for to understand just that you lat friendly for our small box equipment in your network a tool a today as our policy tunnel entry no too much for the small boxes just that you trigger their own demand together I saw her policy ton of entries in our equipment so the scalability is a performance it\u0027s not very high so Naxos de is just to see any other commands about this and to to to to revise our draft accordingly were there any questions either now or remotely I do I\u0027m from I\u0027m from titanium one question I want to make clarify what he read yeah I think the kind of scenario can be covered with the she said protocol you know it is it is right right ask for the PDF fellow so what\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:55",
    "text": "your reason you you make like okay so based on the PDP yes yes I agree with you this piece a besides me how the request and every prime axes messages can do that but let me see about the P had and that means because I supposedly have already defined from PGP from controller wire bgp protocol from controller that means the had hand already support bgp but now if you you think okay i need to PCP that means that equipment we need a supporter pcp also i just say if for the small boxes if we can unify the protocol is more easy for operator i don\u0027t say it cannot do I just say is easy to operator we can do it it\u0027s an option if you like that also you can use PCB I agree with you just the two lighted it boxes I have said it\u0027s friendly for some small boxes on our our network I don\u0027t say we cannot do it addressing is Morse friendly for this equipment yeah Stefan for orange please use precept to do this you are with lady you are replicating everything which is in peace app just use preset BGP is distribution protocol it\u0027s not a request and then send me just something you are completely changing what HP so please you say yes yes I agree with you totally agree but again I am asked to say if the step three I have said because we have defined IDR draft to use BGP to send candidate a pass from controller to the equipment but to why at that time we don\u0027t say okay if you see if you can do it why we use beauty I just to say because we have defined some mechanism against BGP so we must at you to do something to help this bitch if you can\u0027t do more other things for the equipment I just say it\u0027s option yeah looking at this and I know there are a lot of people who\u0027d like pset I personally will ask you why aren\u0027t you using Jia PC for this which is used everywhere I mean but basically why wouldn\u0027t you use anything other than BGP for this because you know as someone else said the BGP is therefore distributing information not kind of requesting config information and if I\u0027m going to request config information or something then your PCP set anything but yes I agree I totally agree because we can say something like here I have that existing draft we defined yes GRCC yes not copy yes they are yes BGP yes piece of everything is okay so at that time wait don\u0027t say why you use so many misers why not so do you know because we can\u0027t get it from beauty piece so now we defined a new mechanism before to lat ability can\u0027t get a request I think it is easy "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:56",
    "text": "to understand yes I totally agree not come okay say I okay did you hear or not pizza okay no problem but I must say BGP should be also be okay it\u0027s like that yeah I think that\u0027s we face some the scenarios there\u0027s now that so they always use the PDP instead of the p7 and maybe you understand the data center network here there\u0027s a the fact you not use that he said but the PDP as our policy in the introduced so I think that they say is a possible way to unify the protocol to request the Connie data path and it will download us Ruby deep here I think this and maybe America for the operation that\u0027s the purpose I see someone standing is that from the lengthy discussions or did you want to make come on Zach emancipate please from Minister thank you so much [Music] ok that warmed us up for good set of discussions on the Charter thank you very much ok this is gonna hopefully be feedback kind for the chairs first of all I\u0027ve been sending statuses out more frequently every two to three weeks or so little hum from the room was that a good idea was that a bad idea oh you can\u0027t humble okay folks tell me come forward was that is that helpful is that helpful a quiet home home before don\u0027t waste your time sooo it\u0027s okay we don\u0027t need it well that\u0027s a silence it\u0027s doing it keep doing it okay that\u0027s it so if I could Jeff has that I love the status it shows us where we\u0027re at having everything in one message means that threads that get kicked off of that are hard to follow so you have 16 things inside of a status item and then we end up with all these "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:56",
    "text": "discussions around it when you go to look and see do I care about this thread so this is really no location is to macro fragment the status down to status on each individual work out not quite that that it\u0027s it\u0027s a little hard to fault where\u0027s the suggestion that people following up should create a new thread that would be helpful so Jeff nods yes Jeff hots got it okay this has been on the list new charter talks about what we expect from peer working groups what they can expect from righty air and removes the old crufty stuff that was in there if it passes then we\u0027re gonna update milestones this is just to give a bit of a discussion going so this is the Charter text if anybody has questions John sent it out mostly we got plus ones if you have any questions I\u0027ll cycle through this if not we\u0027ll go to the thing that John and I would really like which is tell us which is the next important thing to do here so we can just okay yeah I think you might have been you know typing in your sleep or something so we\u0027ll just take it later okay comment yes so speaking as best working group co-chair I would like just to know why you added more text about the relationship between idea under the other working groups as you seen some issues or ID requests from other people sorry we had requests from other working groups we may already work well you know together or another working group says sustain it because in my opinion the job of idea is really to create the base infrastructure for BGP and define all the guidelines for other working groups to be able to use it as far and as long as we are within with guidelines I think we don\u0027t really need a kind of review or something but sometimes it\u0027s borderline and we need more extension to be TP and in this case of course you need to be you need to be contacted and probably someone needs to be done within idea but I just want to to avoid slowing down some work we could have if it is just real very simple things that we need to add like just a new extended community of something right so so that\u0027s the intent of this what what you just said I couldn\u0027t agree more and that\u0027s what we tried to write "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:58",
    "text": "in the Charter if you think we missed that you know and created like more process and it\u0027s gonna be a problem that\u0027s exactly the kind of feedback we need to hear and we should so there\u0027s a way what you said yeah it is that for each good point that we need to allocate we need an agreement from idea so okay what what what we tried to write was for each should be consulted tufted let me give an example of a place where I want IDR engaged heavily and an example of a case where I don\u0027t so a case where I think that I BR should be thoroughly engaged is if you\u0027re creating a new path attribute an example of a case where I\u0027d like single message to the IVR mailing list is if you\u0027re allocating a new well-known extend community and and you know it\u0027s not a it\u0027s not a blocking email to the the mailing list assumed a hello okay make sense yeah the other point back is about the exact scopes that idea is dealing with about VF surface so you secure on text that you are displaying is telling about okay we are managing ipv4 and ipv6 so Internet is that exact scope that you are limited to just to try to clearly define the boundary between what you are doing and what we could do in base and so on I would say that is not intended to be limiting and and in fact the text is right now written in a way that it\u0027s it\u0027s not intended to be hard scoped hmm because people bring new stuff along and we\u0027d like to at least be and and there\u0027s good reason to be in various places you know we need to have as many threads through this as possible hmm to get the workload through so not intended suggest something we can fix okay so you know that said for example I have no intention of trying to find there are some things that would be good to consult as we do the new tunnel attribute we\u0027ve got to figure out how we transition things to the new tunnel attribute from the extended community what makes sense that\u0027s a discussion there\u0027s a lot of there\u0027s a lot of play back and forth where things are deployed where things are not let\u0027s be sensible let\u0027s get the code that\u0027s out there out there and not block that so this is not meant to do that\u0027s another example where we\u0027re really trying to be reasonable in yeah because for this kind of example so suit turn Aaron Capps we are still in a kind of transition period but as soon as we are in E in the more yeah future "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:59",
    "text": "where the tonal attributes will be maybe always used yeah why do we need I just refer to just that okay to a new type right that\u0027s the point of saying just send us an email hmm so just to be clear with you you\u0027re doing nothing wrong necessarily what we really want here is is there are many working groups that work on PGP stuff we just want to make sure that we know so yes we don\u0027t want to slow everything down or IDR and the other working group and everyone else has to prove everything we don\u0027t want to do that because we wanted to do that we were just close everything else just do everything here but we went the other way so want this you know just information it may be that there is something that you think is really important and IDR says oh okay thank you for that\u0027s known yeah that\u0027s it it may be the other way around where you inform us or something that is routine and someone says oh but that\u0027s really important as it changes something so that that type of information and that\u0027s it you know we can go from there and we when I say we I mean the chairs can coordinate from there there\u0027s anything else needed but the basis one really good example where we did some good collaboration anything this week is in the IPSec stuff that was really that that session brought up lots for the best slots for where the proposals that came to IDR where the good stuff that\u0027s that\u0027s more of the stuff we\u0027d like to see okay and you know we welcome requirements don\u0027t don\u0027t just send you know stuff back and forth if you think we should be doing something tell us okay anything else on the Charter great comments okay this picture may these are the issues that people gave me on the list I tried to send it out this morning that\u0027s a long set of issues okay what some people told me is I tried to give snapshots in some Ridge but some of them weren\u0027t really terrific so I\u0027ve left the issue list and we can start with yeah let\u0027s just go and tell us what the top issues you want to try to work on or I can dive down a little bit into issues that are interesting they\u0027re on the slides you can look at it the only thing I think we\u0027d really and I\u0027ve started working group last calls or adoption calls in several of these phases the only thing I\u0027d really might be really interesting to go into in detail is faster registry handling but because that could snarl us with a lot of process discussion I wanted to make "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "sure we got to the meat first anybody want me to dive down is this the time to ask questions so dive down what is the right thing hum come to the mic if you want I that\u0027s come to the mic if you\u0027d like me to dive down into any of these tell me which one yeah I mean you you talk long enough that people have had a chance to read the list and you know if there\u0027s one there that they want to engage on how\u0027s the time so in case Sidney Elora Thunder alley needy in case anyone didn\u0027t come to the other medium once they where we talk about there is that what one of you is produce a general charter this would like their does coordinators with other working groups you know etc so that we don\u0027t end in the same situation that we are now where we have a charter that lists a bunch of stuff that we already finish some things that we are delivering to do and we\u0027re actually working on stuff that it\u0027s not really in the Charter that we\u0027re just taking on because you know it\u0027s the right thing to do so so that we don\u0027t reach our Terraria we want to just manage and I say we as the chairs are going to manage the flow of the working group based on milestones so what we\u0027re really looking for now is talking about hey there\u0027s a list of issues what are the issues are really the priority for the working group that we should put first in the milestones so that we know that those are important and worker those and then the chairs can manage where you see that as okay this is one review process first etc we can also measure later and discuss have a more dynamic discussion maybe not every other year but I don\u0027t know whatever once a year whatever it is that we can add things to shorten this remove things figure out whatever whatever it was so instead of having 27 things like that it would be nice if we knew what they were can do it wanted to focus I mean you would be great if people have well thought through ideas on this now they want to share super but otherwise that you know blood sugar is running low prior to lunch you\u0027re tired after a long week really the more important thing to do is you know as you\u0027re traveling home you know next week whatever let\u0027s have a real discussion on the list about about prioritizing or milestones but I don\u0027t think we would you know even if we said no we\u0027re going to use our next meeting slot to to do milestone prioritization it\u0027s it\u0027s not like it would conclude very successful a seal in Damascus systems I just want to say over the last month and a half I see I\u0027ve seen a significant uptick on address and the things that needed to be addressed that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:01",
    "text": "really you know we\u0027re blocking documents like the tunnel end caps and other things and I think getting some of the work done where there are implementations you know you know and a lot of that I realize you don\u0027t have a car you can\u0027t make people Interop test you get one implementation you can\u0027t make somebody do another one but I think I think I\u0027ve seen it seems like we made more progress in the last month and a half than the preceding four months thank you thank you AC we\u0027ve been trying to do that I\u0027ve been trying to push John should we cover the fast registry stuff you\u0027ve got that one let me get through it so I don\u0027t think this should take too long but it apparently is my my destiny to talk about registries like every meeting okay yep do little soft-shoe note that I did here we go so you let\u0027s see just go ahead and talk about about early allocation so you know that the you know over the last few years we are you know have continued to try to improve our sanitation in terms of how we allocate coat points part of that is by really trying hard not to have people squat on code points including by publishing them you know just picking them out of there and publishing them in their drafts so you know that\u0027s the stick half of it but we have to provide accurate half also which is to have a way of giving you code points easily when you need them and I\u0027m not going to repeat why that\u0027s incredibly important one of the tools that we\u0027ve tried hard to use for that is early allocation the early allocation policy is a thing that says look if you\u0027ve got a draft that\u0027s sort of progressing towards becoming an RFC one of these days you need a code point in order to get your implementation done so you can actually show some interoperation we think that\u0027s great we want to have a way of doing that before you get your RFC number so that you don\u0027t get stuck in a chicken-and-egg problem there\u0027s a RFC that says how to do this it\u0027s got four criteria I\u0027m not going to read them all to you because the first three are things like you know is there is there a spec does it make sense stuff like that and your chairs are willing to take on the the duty of saying you know clearing those three the fourth is one that we have in the past construed as meaning it talks about interest in the community and you know we\u0027ve said well we have a consensus "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:01",
    "text": "process that we use for a lot of different things and let\u0027s use this for a sort of judging interest in the community and that\u0027s resulted in you know we need a consensus call on early allocation of does and such and that adds at least two weeks of latency I mean if we\u0027re really on the ball and we like fire off the consensus call right away and we conclude the consensus call right away which as you know we don\u0027t always do and I was talking with Alvaro the other day and you know he basically smacked me around and said John you already have gone through a consensus process to adopt a working group draft explain to me why that doesn\u0027t mean you have community consensus already and I sort of hemmed and hawed but really he was writing so the proposal is that going forward what we\u0027re gonna do is if you have a working group draft and you know authors and implementers come to the chairs come to the working group and say yeah we want our Li allocation we think it\u0027s time that we are going to believe you and we are going to believe that we\u0027ve already got community consensus and we\u0027re just going to process it forward we\u0027ll you know ping the list and you know we\u0027ll expect this all to take place in public on the list of course but instead of saying you know you have two weeks to get your comments and we\u0027re just gonna say we\u0027re doing it and if you\u0027re if you wish to scream bloody murder you had better take it upon yourself to do that otherwise we\u0027ll just proceed forward allocate the code points and go on of course part of the reason that you have humans as working group co-chairs and not automation is so that we can exercise discretion so you know we may sometimes exercise discretion and say you know what yes your draft is a working group draft but it\u0027s actually been five years since it became a working group draft and we\u0027re not really convinced that anybody in the working group is paying attention anymore we really need to you know actually do a consensus call on this but in general the proposal is that we just kind of speed things up on on early allocations so you know pros and cons I think I covered them already if you have any opinions on this please provide them especially if you are opposed to it if you\u0027re in favor I mean you know attaboys are you know plus ones are all very well but mainly this is to give you an opportunity of saying you know to say no please don\u0027t do this because we think that the the two-week consensus call was a valuable gate I hear silence there is one other fuck out in your last one that was my air I think that I could tell that out the status I will be tracking any early code adoption you requested if you thought you had it and it isn\u0027t in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:01",
    "text": "registry within a week please send me an email and we\u0027ll I\u0027ll go track it down oh and and I did promise to come back and say specifically as regards to the BG pls registry is Adrienne has been so kind as to write a short draft which the BG pls registries were kind of neither fish nor fowl they\u0027re designated no specification required which according to Hannes he always thought that what that was supposed to mean was just an internet draft when you go and actually read the relevant RFC is it really doesn\u0027t mean that and so essentially Adrienne\u0027s draft more or less tries to move it in to just have an internet draft is that pretty accurate so if you have obviously as with any other document destined to the working group if you have some opinions on that please provide them on the list and questions video photo Telecom just one simple question for the earlier location for figuring out what the well okay how much value two weeks waiting time has provided so far do you have at hand or could you just check the statistics how many early calls we had and how many actually resulted in some thing were the waiting time actually in the last I\u0027m just gonna give you a rough I but the rough estimate is we had at least my guess is about fifteen to seventeen calls we had to that people ask questions that I\u0027m simply had follow-up all the rest were Plus Ones support snore you know but two hits and comments those also could have come up in the working group adoption process instead of having plus ones there so yeah well okay kind of kind of I could imagine a situation where I did not take the chance to oppose the adoption and then feel bad about the early allocation but kind of that\u0027s not really relevant so I get I gather you are saying essentially yes there has been some discussion but actually the decision to UVO early allocation actually never was denied correct hi kitten the logical Cisco system so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:01",
    "text": "for the bt pls thing as an implementer i think we I definitely would like to have a specification required and not really fall back to the experts review because experts review doesn\u0027t need a specification I think nobody said so you should really drills draft that is not the case yes I understand but the other point that I wanted to bring was the the the contention was because internet drafts are called temporary and that\u0027s where we thought that you know they cannot be used as a reference for specification can\u0027t we just you know do an update or something on 8126 that for the purpose of specification required internet drafts are not temporary so IDR is not the correct place to update 8126 it\u0027s a anna is actually working on an update to a twenty six so if you have suggestions please touch that and the other thing I was gonna say is that extra review doesn\u0027t listen lean that the expert does whatever they want ideally and this is in 8126 it says that the the RFC should provide guidance to the experts so if you want something specific for the experts to do for example denying anything that comes from Adrian you can put it in the arm see and you know whatever the working wants including the expert can consider or should accept it or drafts Ketan read the draft as a vera says there\u0027s direction to the expert route to the experts and the the draft that I\u0027ve written says that requests that come from the ITF must have an internet draft to your point and updating 8126 yes talk to i anna but calling black/white will not change the nature of black an internet draft is it maybe archival e available but it is not a stable reference so if what you want is specification and i hear that if what you want is specification then let\u0027s stay with specification required but ask for a specification if what you want is internet draft then let\u0027s loosen it a bit and direct the experts to say an internet draft is good enough yeah sure I mean I defer to Adrian knows better though I understand and I have question on how to read this really there you say adopt this approach and that is fine I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:01",
    "text": "think you can as a working group chair take the decision you can judge that there are consensus at any time yeah the experience I have is that sometimes I can do that and we are close to working group adoption they had good discussion and yeah just go ahead other cases it\u0027s a kind of six months later after working group adoption discussion has been kinda weak on the list and I don\u0027t really know then I do the - we call or it\u0027s got somewhere in between I do one week fall so you should be allowed to do all those things to have enough information to judge if there is consensus to actually do another location okay thank you yeah I think they were in agreement that and really the the purpose of putting up these slides and talking about this is because you know we have through our behavior trained to the working group to expect you know one set of procedures from the chairs and now we\u0027re saying now we\u0027re gonna change a little bit you know like Lola has described and you know just please don\u0027t be don\u0027t be surprised and if you you know have concerns or whatever and let us know that\u0027s it so the way you decide that do you want to judge consensus it\u0027s probably very close to without appeal you decide how you want to do if you do it that way and you get the information you need what I\u0027m saying is if you say if you are sure there is no consensus well yes go ahead if you want to do a poll do a poll or if you want to use some other method do that and it\u0027s it\u0027s sufficient you decide thank you and we are now two minutes over but I don\u0027t feel guilty because we\u0027re cancelling our final session and let\u0027s get out of here hope to see you in Singapore oh and if somebody has the other blue sheet if you could wave it around bring it forward something like that it would be helpful thank you you "
  }
]