[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "all right it is five tends to only have an hour slot let\u0027s get started welcome David d√©cor I\u0027m Jennifer mrs. Rachel we have Magnus being jabber scribe so if your remote either join the medical queue if you want to speak to us using the protocols we invented or have Magnus relate if you want to do it be a protocol some other ITF working group admitted James James crusing is don\u0027t take her back there he\u0027s doing in the ether pads so if you want to look you know also join and correct any typos he has or anything like what I\u0027m sure he\u0027d appreciate it blue sheets are going around make sure you sign them and we have a medical remote participants so when you say anything make sure to use the microphone so that they can hear you and we can have you on the recording so we can figure out what you said later Nowell Nowell applies make sure you understand this if you\u0027re gonna say anything or stay quiet if you don\u0027t understand it somehow we got a bit of Chinese over that but I don\u0027t think that\u0027s a big deal okay so so now you can so under so you can understand that well in Chinese also alright so today I\u0027m starting with this agenda bash talking about various of our working group documents that are not in that are not the amount of specific agenda items then we\u0027ll have 20 minutes for Colin to talk about our MCAT CC feedback draft and then we\u0027ll be handing over to Ronnie to talk about the status of the payload working group which is our close sibling working group and then we\u0027ll finish with anything else anybody wants to talk about anybody have any comments on that agenda it\u0027s a fairly standard agenda we just copy and pasted from session to session what\u0027s up a OCB okay so he gives me this okay telling that something cuz I feel like it feels okay cool working group documents a number of things are still in cluster 238 which allegedly will be clear real soon now I\u0027m sure that we very exciting especially if you\u0027re the RFC editor and frame art and lrr so awaiting on frame working so first item is multiplex guidelines which I think Magnus said he has enough to talk about so you want to talk instead that\u0027s so - yes we finally updated the update the comments not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:04",
    "text": "quite done now you submitted the drafts and people could review what we talked so far they\u0027re still I would wish that somebody looks and I think includes some of my co-authors to look at these questions of mailing lists and then was about to say okay if they have anything was safe about those so hey questions does a co-worker who has a close with the draft referral services it looks at the questions in the mailing list animal toy what changed in the draft and I didn\u0027t really have anything that the draft seem like a reasonable response to the questions I live it to serve all right so then frame marking you talk you know how long this has been around it\u0027s a Navy TX draft which was a working group that hasn\u0027t existed in several years now that MOCA meeting said they know so we thought we were going to go do a pub wreck on it after the last IETF and then a bunch of more comments were submitted on the draft which I asked the authors to respond to which they did not so I spoke to the author yesterday and he swore to me that he would respond to it I\u0027m not but I will probably need to nag him a few more times but hopefully we\u0027ll be able to clear those up relatively quickly if smoke smell comes in we will try to get him to commit to that at a microphone but maybe he\u0027s smarter than that and not bothering the event and then people if CC feedback is the main agenda item today that\u0027s it okay ah there he is moe perfect timing you thought maybe or you\u0027re going you you thought you could wait until after we were switching so yes so frame marking and it still had some comments that I think needs minutes all of them a lot of the comments I think we can clarify and explain but there\u0027s going to be a few that the draft clarify texture again "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:04",
    "text": "when do you think you could have that clarified by the end of this week okay okay so at that point do we think it\u0027s ready for pop rock or do we need to the authors do have much feedback to the sites okay I mean basically I consider that to be part of working with blast calls so I think I don\u0027t think there\u0027s anything that would require a second work last call or anything as far as I know there\u0027s been no major technical changes right it\u0027s kind of supposed to just clarifying text okay the only thing would have been a major technical changes uh so one of those comments this is around getting guidance about how to use these things I thought we decided as a hooker earlier that this will provide guidance it wouldn\u0027t be normative and how a message you should operate - gives the tools and it\u0027s up to implementers to decide because there\u0027s so many different implementation options press use well I think it\u0027s the first to get guidance about to do certain things all right the question has arisen as to which scalability votes this is compatible with yes the when you say scale blending modes I think you mean the restriction that it only works for nested several layers right like yeah in particular I know what I\u0027m thinking about is like if I look at all the weird scalability both the maybe one surely there\u0027s some set of those it would not work with and well as I\u0027m sure you\u0027re aware Bernard anyone doesn\u0027t plan to bring to peel a draft to this working group and does nothing to use the free marketing draft at all marquee use custom it the weird thing is that the Weber IPC cover facial spray marquee unless it\u0027s ripped out so anyway in that in that in in trying to figure out that question how you would implement free marketing with everyone that question has come up yes I agree it\u0027s an issue but I don\u0027t think it\u0027s an issue that that this draft can solve I think it\u0027s a larger issue that the media would have to bring that into work at diets you have to be able to do something about it don\u0027t go away I heard you heard it I heard that this is not going to be in a book because Carla asked me about it\u0027s complicated there\u0027s no no one has been working "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:06",
    "text": "towards a public draft in the ITF on anyone yet my knowledge she was working on it so don\u0027t say you guys some some guys decided not that\u0027s that\u0027s an open question too about whether how would you register Omega and I know registration disaster yeah what I\u0027ll stay though is the same question that arise for benign and then because they are now supported in vp9 so even if we keep baby one out of scope there\u0027s still a question about the implications of negotiating it for vp9 I mean most periods already supported non temporally nested temporal layers so I think they\u0027re just the the thing in what frame marking says is if you\u0027re encoding in a way that\u0027s not compatible with this spec dump what frame markings on it so the real restriction is that in order to be able to understand what\u0027s coming in the stream and SS you would need a lot more a lot more elaborate information than the frame marking provides maybe even more that could reasonably be signaled if the scale data structures are unconstrained it would it would you basically have to have a full dependency tree all of the prior frame until debris the last night which is unreasonable to say so without constraining scalability format without having some fixed scalability layer information it becomes very difficult to have so I mean I feel like we just remarking just needs to say is this is not capable of expressing every scalability mode that the codecs support therefore if you\u0027re if you\u0027re encoding a mode that this doesn\u0027t support you must not put trademarking on it then maybe that\u0027s so you might already say that but we burn our doors is that okay is that is that too much of a constraint for real implementations well no I I\u0027m not asking that question because I\u0027m just asking if you can make enough of a statement in the document so it at least it\u0027s clear what modes would be supported or not we can figure out what the implications of that are there probably lots of situations where the supported modes will be sufficient for a particular application and then they can turn on frame marking and you know use it to the hours contact yeah all right so I think that\u0027s it for frame marking and let\u0027s get to CCC feedback did you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:15",
    "text": "have the no no they didn\u0027t do that all right so Tuesday yes Tuesday afternoon three there you can yeah I think so but we didn\u0027t hold on see who are you that there we are will that work what we can work is amazing all right I\u0027m glad to see we have a working good chair who knows how to work the Chromebooks because I certainly don\u0027t ok so hi I\u0027m Connor can\u0027t talk about the RTP congestion control - feedback draft this is a draft that is joint work with ahead and Varun and Micah Romero some of these slides and I think most of the changes this time are all my fault though so blame me for all the mistakes okay so this was discussed last meeting there was a bunch of people Jonathan and I forget who else three or four of us were playing at the hackathon in Prague give a bunch of really nice feedback on this draft we had some discussion of the last meeting about what to do about that and I\u0027ve submitted the zero for Russian attitude to reflect that experience you will be pleased to know there are no changes whatsoever to the packet formats we\u0027ve done it\u0027s made a bunch of clarifications to the text ok so what have we changed we have added an example of how to use the rtcp feedback attribute on the basis that both myself end up is one of the implements has got it wrong when when I was writing the draft and when it was being implemented hopefully what is on the slide is now correct and if you\u0027re on a Greece that\u0027s right way of doing it but there\u0027s no us on example in there so hopefully people keep agreeing that this is the right way of doing it we\u0027ve added a clarification that if you\u0027ve negotiated if you see or retransmission then you should send a congestion control feedback for the fake packets for the retransmission packets since this it\u0027s all things which are being being transmitted and contributing to congestion so you should send feedback on itself we clarified that when you\u0027re using the STP bundle extension the congestion control feedback signaling matches the rest of the ACK feedback for a TCP F the rtcp AFB attribute which is s which is identical per payload type according to the draft STP but MUX attributes it\u0027s fine entirely clear what identical payload type means night-time "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:15",
    "text": "it clear to me what identical payload type means when you have a wild-card payload type but that\u0027s something we should clarify I guess in STP MUX attributes and they did send email to their music list about that but no one replied on that but they were a music worried about that and we\u0027re putting we have a long discussion of the last meeting about what should happen if these the off the SDP offer includes several different ways of providing congestion control feedback and the drafter now says the receiver should pick its preferred mechanism and use that consistently and so if you get a rien vite you should where possible reply with the same mechanism in terms of the actual a TCP congestion control feedback again we didn\u0027t change the feedback at all we put in some clarifications in particular we we put in some text that says if you send feedback which indicates that some packets are lost that is not an explicit request that you retransmit that the sender retransmit those lost packets it\u0027s just an indication that those packets were lost on this is affecting the the state of the congestion so this doesn\u0027t act as an explicit neck if you want if you want so next you should send max in the same way equally it doesn\u0027t prohibit the sender from retransmitting those lost packets if it says negotiated a retransmission packet from that but it doesn\u0027t explicitly require it so as usual a sender what if you have retransmission enabled couldn\u0027t choose to retransmit any or all of the packets it feels like and we put in a clarification that if you configure your are TCP bandwidth fraction Wiggly you may end up having to generate some very large congestion can draw a feedback packets in which case you may have to split it across multiple our TCP / rtcp packets because it won\u0027t fit in the MTU my advice that is don\u0027t do that configure your a TCP bandwidth fraction so you put in enough rack in enough feedback band which the seminary costs more often and it won\u0027t be an issue yeah I think the section this came up with in the hackathon because we you know one side wasn\u0027t sending feedback at all so that the other side was ramping up so still basically one side was successfully ramping up to several megabits the other side was still stuck at whatever it\u0027s the minimum its minimum starting rate was so it basically was making its artistic came back bandwidth its practice media bandwidth which was still stuck at 50 kilobits or something so yeah yeah yes so if you do something dumb with the amount of feedback you\u0027re allowed to send then you will have to generate large packets and it will go wrong don\u0027t do that we added a section on congestion response when the congestion control feedback packets are lost now what this says the important bit is it says that like all our TCP pay packets the congestion control feedback packets are unreliable and might be lost "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:15",
    "text": "therefore if you\u0027re designing a congestion control algorithm you must specify how that algorithm response to loss of feedback packets and we then added some advice which says well if you just lose one feedback packet you should probably assume that things haven\u0027t changed significantly and carry on at about the same rate you are you are sending before if you keep losing feedback packets you go for a long time when you\u0027re not getting congestion control feedback this is probably an indication that that either the forward or the reverse path has failed and you should be fairly aggressively ramping down your sending rate and the circuit breaker has some guidance there which suggests you should stop sending after I forget how many but after some number of error reporting intervals without getting any feedback the main thing though is that the congestion control algorithm should specify what it should do and that should be to to ramp down fairly aggressively so that\u0027s it I have new technical open issues with the draft of non technical issues which is still to do are to add a comparison with the Google draft and explain the design rationale and various trade off various design trade-offs of the two approaches and so I have some discussion on how you convert between the per SSRC sequence numbers which this uses and unified sequence numbers which the whole my draft users just just as part of the discussion that was the different trade-offs there so I hope that we will have that already for working group last call long before the Singapore meeting so we\u0027ve been here before but hopefully we\u0027re really getting there this time money so just a question or Anya I think it\u0027s a question is this a different behavior than if I suddenly stopped receiving our DCP messages if I don\u0027t receive any congestion control so if you stop receiving our TCP recent surveys you know most of the issue that the congestion control people like it\u0027s almost okay yes but that means that is it different behavior from the receiver of the RCP feedback that feedback then if he doesn\u0027t receive other rtcp messages I mean this this draft is about congestion control so that\u0027s why do you doing here not taking something it was the normal behavior in these days so RFC 3550 doesn\u0027t say anything about what happens if rtcp packets stop I think that was really the circuit a draft has some generic guidance this draft is specifically about congestion control so it gives some specific guidance relating to congestion control "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:16",
    "text": "but you know I mean I think it\u0027s generally good practice that if you know if you\u0027re sending packets and the feedback stops it\u0027s probably a sign that something is broken and you should you should stop sending very in the very weird circumstance and if you stop getting any CC FPS but get all other rtcp probably somebody\u0027s watching you attack on you usually weird metal books okay anything else so so you expect to have that draft out sometimes over the summer yeah before your run yeah before the students get back is my plan and Ronnie how do you wanna handle this and yeah anybody not get a blue sheet Justin you came in late in oh yeah sorry I don\u0027t mean to pick on you well came in late to one another Stellar\u0027s - there\u0027s two going around so there\u0027s one the other ones up here so Justin that\u0027s the only one that\u0027s convenient does anybody right now I think Colin was raising his hand for blue sheet and okay as as in the last meeting we are just trying to provide to take this opportunity and provide just the information the status the status of the payload working group the presentation was done by me and by Ali my culture who\u0027s not here at the meeting next slide so since the last meeting we have RFC 86 27 which is the flexible faq published which was needed by the RTC web and we are happy to have it already did that thank you more there\u0027s draft does the t\u0027s this vc is tailored to publication on february and the ad change will Mar so we are hoping that we will start were looking at did this one because there\u0027s no other thing next night so the world of documents there\u0027s the Tetra the tetra payload that was ready this one was strange because it was registered the the payload would register by group from Etsy in the middle of our development cycle the auto claims on May 19 that they made this year that they want to proceed but they never did any update on the document so I need to ask it again because it\u0027s expiring the JPEG xx XS there were "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:20",
    "text": "comments on the list and the author will submit the new revision bed with the conclusion that was last last messages were from last month\u0027s the 50 ml this one the media subtype was registered by w3c and this document specified the RTP payload 48 ml we had a working class call which ended of July 18 but there were no reviews in the past before that well he w3c reviewed the document before the one who press call and and they were ok with the textile acident again at least to send a message saying that that\u0027s ok for them to to continue if anyone would like to review if it would be helpful the only one the only one document that still open vp9 some speaking as an author that I meant to so I mentally do a refresh of the document after the last one but I didn\u0027t so but I did talk to Justin earlier this week and basically he asked me to turn the various two dudes in the document into actually open issues the github repo which I have done and he says he\u0027ll find he\u0027ll convince the other co-authors who I believe worked for him to do something like that the one as I was doing that I realize there was one actual technical open issue which is that the way we have SLI defined doesn\u0027t actually work with a special scalability it may be that nobody cares about SLI I believe that it\u0027s not it widely believed was implemented in WebRTC stacks for instance so the answer might be to say not supported I don\u0027t know if anybody has any if nobody cares about SLI that\u0027s probably the easiest thing to do because it\u0027s all obviously it\u0027s a lot easier to add it later if somebody says although I needed after all than to try to fix a broken definition does anybody have any opinions anybody ever use SLI throw it out yeah okay yeah it sounds okay so on throwing out SLI and you know I think I believe they\u0027ve it up there\u0027s another minor change to the draft which one of my co-authors check into github but which I saw like a nerve that this week the other ones it depends on how quickly justin can look the other Walters Justin you ready Google I think if you folks on vacation right now we\u0027re co-authors but I think that right time frame would be before 106 okay I think before 106 yes we all want get the saga bytes yeah all right and given that it\u0027s been "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:21",
    "text": "shipping in chrome for like three years now we probably ought to have a special for it okay is there an official so we could have repo for a VP for organization no this would be payload but I don\u0027t think we don\u0027t have one yet now so I can stay in there as an author because everyone is doing their own stuff I mean it\u0027s like every document comes from a different group of people I mean it\u0027s not like there\u0027s some regular people who were here in pain oh do you know you come into the payment then you go away from from that okay that just to say that there are no any there no no individual graph that waiting to become four new payloads so this is the all the work that we currently have at the moment any questions comments okay if not when we managed to finish in half an hour so go us accepted I think by believe that car Colin had some other business I\u0027m sure many of this group was originally chaired by Steve Kozma and the group was founded if I have check my words correctly over between second IETF sense of faith in 1891 and Steve steps down in 1857 back in 2003 Magnus delivers yes you would be pleased to hear that it has not any fewer who founded the music working group will be awarded theatrically internet award in 2020 mmm for distinguished leadership in developing standards for internet multimedia informative contributions of designer in cement multimedia protocols including RTP and this working group all right so I believe that\u0027s it so thank you everybody we will you know have enjoyed the social and or whatever antisocial you\u0027re doing and see you all around this week and yeah depends how "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:29",
    "text": "much we get motive yeah no matter but not need to me "
  }
]