[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "okay we're at the top of the hour I see that uh yanosh is back in uh but he is going to reboot um to deal with his audio problems uh that said uh I'm going to get started with the uh meeting intro let's see if it shares I hope everyone is seeing the intro slide now it should be projected uh thank you all for joining our networking group interim I'm Lou Berger uh janosvarcos as I mentioned is having some uh audio issues and we'll be rejoining we had to reboot this computer but we're going to get started we also have uh David black our technical advisor and we might end up with our secretary although it is um quite early on the west coast of the U.S uh this isn't a formal iepf meeting it is obviously virtual but the Noel still applies I think all are familiar with this it goes to how we conduct ourselves and um how we cover our the contributions to the ITF if you're not familiar with it please go take a look um please keep your audio off unless you are asked to speak or you are the one Speaking um it says headsets recommended recommended I think today it works pretty well without it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "we're using meet Echo obviously you're you're here with us so thank you for joining note taking you can get to through the uh there's a button in the upper right about the note taking if you can join the Hedge Doc and help us capture the discussion that would be great the recording of this meeting will also be available um after the session you joining here also serves as a virtual blue sheet so no action is required there today we're going to be after the intro we're going to get an update on the requirements draft this is our working group document on scaling requirements really headed towards an enhanced.net data plane we had at uh we had talked about having a design team some process things got in the way of the formal design team so we've decided that we are going to proceed with a series of open working meetings those meetings are going to be chaired by our Tech advisor David black so David thank you so much the focus of this meeting is on the process related to how we're going to progressing and making sure that everyone has an opportunity to talk and to hear what the planned process is we're going to not get into too much discussion of uh of solutions here yes we're going to get an update on the requirements but the focus of the meeting is really going to be on the plan that David is going to put forward and this has been prepared together with the working group chairs so that's where we're going to spend the boat bulk of the time the open discussion is to focus on this process and making sure that those who wish to contribute to the data plane enhancements have an opportunity to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "participate in the proposed working meetings and with that I'm going to hand off to uh Pang uh go ahead tourless yeah so um I am was suggesting an additional um item on the agenda yesterday sorry that was so late and that was the um you know discussed and promised um type of method that could help this process um with respect to criteria assessment for um for the different mechanisms so if if we have time for that maybe that would be useful to get started having participants located in this meeting okay well uh thanks for that uh as you mentioned it came in quite late we had others who wished to speak and uh we had said that those people will will go to that first open meeting and talk about it there as well as talk about it on the list wouldn't be fair to uh you know have your material come in so late and have you know have those others not be able to speak in front of you so you know those people as well as you are welcome to come to the mic but we're not going to do those slides uh appreciate the material please discuss it on the list and bring it to the first open meeting so uh thanks for that contribution for us that's great by the way I haven't seen actually anybody else uh uh make a requests on the mailing list so I think um it would be great if if those other requests and the um uh according drafts would be uh you know uh communicated openly on the mailing list as opposed to just requested to chairs because then it's very opaque to understand what's going on with other people in the working group they're welcome to contribute in the way they see fit you know the usually we ask uh to not clutter the working group with all uh session requests we did the same just now for the upcoming ietf uh it's pretty"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "typical not to have the uh session requests come on on the whole list and and uh you know at clutter there uh I certainly agree that I would like them to contribute on the list publicly in the open meetings um uh bring documents forward um so you know public discussion is what we're all about so uh from the process side them uh submitting you know a request a slot request typically as I said that that goes on uh in the um often just among the chairs now with that we're going to move on to their requirements document uh paying I'm gonna try to pass you control so um uh you should have control the slides if you don't please let me know and I'll figure out how to manage from my end uh Pang can you do an audio check please I think you're muted uh I don't see you speaking so I suspect that you're having audio issues Peng Liu so it seems to be a morning of audio issues uh Pang is going to restart Janos did your audio come back just doing an audio check with you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:12",
    "text": "okay Pang I see you back in are you able to speak hello yes it's wonderful sorry wonderful yeah yeah yeah I will go quickly so yeah so for this draft requirements for regarding the Community Network it was updated to um zero one version to address the comments during the adoption call and recently and also thanks for all of them um so uh first as the name was changed from large scale to scaling we also we also changed the words in the whole document but we don't give a definition of scaling internet uh different from the previous name of large scale the authors don't think the definition of it is needed so as um abstract zero words that changed from long hops per hop time variation and to light version in latency Mountain hopes as David's suggestion so this presentation will introduce comments from previous version of the change of current version I hope you can review the emails in the Middle East to Nowhere about them since there was a lot of updates for the name structure titles of some sub sections and the text so here's the summary of major comments and changes most of them happened in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "Section 3 and the leads to some restructuring we added the explicit requirements regarding flow fluctuation caused by large number of flows corresponding at about it five in key attributes related to the new comment so to make the relation clear for each K attributes we add the specific section reference uh which could be presented later and for section 3.1.4 we change the title to provide mechanisms not requiring synchronization from support a synchronizing based methods so that it it looks more compatible for the four sub sections on the fourth section 3.4 and three point seven moves a different level of than that service demand to section uh 3.7 and add some explanations for them and for Section 3.4 is it is now about the aggregation which is in section 3.5 in the old version and also add some words reference to the existing obviously and the last for the section 4.3 and 4.4 and there is no one to one reference between the bodies into uh in introduction the sub sections in section three and the relationship might be entered here um the text can be expected to be moved to show the ownership that it is also the main issues we haven't addressed um so uh the minor uh comments and Trends are almost really go through all of them uh so I think uh if you have any description issues of the account version please feel free to see and I hope you can see the mailing list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "um so next are the key attributes in section uh to introduction and Technical requirements in Section 3 and the data plan enhancement and requirements in section 4. so um first are the key attributes in introduction some of them are changed in red uh including spiriting and re-emerged but not so much change about interactions um so um here is it is that there's relaxed claw clock synchronization or no clock synchronization in different domains and the end-to-end path is combination of low and high it is a hops there are virus transmission rates supported at different ports on the different network nodes and there are large number of flows which may be difficult to be identified peripheral stage and the flow fluctuation caused by a large number of flows may happen frequently and the topology change and the videos of Link might be more common last one is that mechanisms used to ensure boundary latency may be multiple or have different configuration or parameters in multi-demands with different level demands of definite service um so um the technical requirements is closely light with HK attributes it is now that tolerate time asynchronously and uh next is support large single hope propagation latency common dates the higher link speed and B is scalable to massive traffic flows while moving the different level of standard service you want to requirement seven and Local 5 is prevent flow fluctuation from District disturbing service and next they tolerates the failures of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "links or nodes and tablet topology changes and the last one is supports enhancement of queuing magnesiums um so this is a whole picture and for this slide um to make it clear here's a one-to-one mapping of Kit attributes and the technical comments uh and again I want to introduce them again uh and hope you can check it with it within your site uh if this will be the discussion maybe not okay this slide could be a good abstract and Foundation and well so uh David okay I will uh I will go so uh here's the section for it has four requirements of data plan enhancements which are not closely aligned with each technical bonds and for common one is support aggregated flow identification it could be aligned with one of um oh sorry it is from the five not one before in the new version sorry and the second one supports meta information used by functions ensuring the domestic latency it could be aligned with a comment 7. and for the last two requirements both of them saying there's amps data plan solution but there's no IPv6 data problem solution so they those section is more enhancement if we want to map each of them to a section three and we haven't addressed this issue um but some of the authors think one possible way is to add a new requirement in section history such as enhancement of supporting native physics and some Network may not support nprs when applying data service the native ibvisit could be considered and so I choose other V6 yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "yeah um so uh there's also some space for us to refine this document so we hope that we can get more useful comments and the fights together well um that's all thank you um what is your plan for addressing the list discussion uh guess we um we think uh to maybe enhance the government story another story section three to give a mapping but we don't really have the tact so we are not sure if we if we could if we can and finally at the final we can't provide useful text maybe we were removed the last two government in section four okay thank you so um they're uh really appreciate the the comments with David and working with him on that but there were a few other smaller comments it would be good just to um go back on the list and make sure those are addressed as well thank you so much well thank you seem to have lost the slide controls to switch to the next person yeah I don't know if you can move to the next person to David's slides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:09",
    "text": "okay thank you for that okay David if you can rejoin you should be good to go I'm going to pass you control as well thank you okay um are people able to hear me it looks like it's coming through thank you okay so let me see if I can figure out how to do the slide how to do the uh slide control from here um so this is a um initial discussion of uh how to go about uh figuring out uh what we're going to do to enhance uh to uh enhance the data plane okay where is David it should show along the bottom you should show along the bottom somewhere ah there it is carefully hit carefully hidden behind the note that says it's your slides okay got it ha it works thank you so all of this is proposed so I'm gonna I'm gonna run through the slides and then it's going to be open discussion I mean I think the the agenda said 30 and 10 I think is going to be much closer uh to tent to uh to 10 30. so I'd like to go through all the slides and then we can quickly hop around as people have comments suggestions whatnot um okay so the proposed initial focus is cueing um as was uh as we said the announcement plans for informal open working meetings on Progressive topic of an enhanced.net data plane it'll be the same scope as the recently dismanded design team uh they're the two uh open working meeting goals that were announced and there's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "been some question other topics are going to be outside the scope of these working meetings they may still be within the scope of the work group as a whole this is not this is an a focused effort to go deal with cueing it's not uh going to uh it's not intended to do everything that that could be done or should be done to uh to enhanced debt net okay tentative approach so first of all I want to thank Pang and the authors for working on the scaling requirements draft is that's looking like a very useful way to structure this there will there have been technical requirements there will be more to come um he they the authors have have very helpfully put each each uh requirement in its own draft section and I think as we go along we need to remove requirements that aren't uh for scaling uh that affects uh requirements 4.3 and 4.4 I think the working group sort of get working group sort of gets to decide whether those are closely related to scaling or ought to be pursued uh sued independently so with the refines and requirements the next step is to determine which proposed solution is satisfied which requirements this is something like a two-dimensional Matrix of solutions uh uh on one axis requirements on the other access and here the section numbers help a lot because it means we could just put the section numbers in The Matrix uh as labels and people can go look at the student requirements draft explains what each of them means in uh much more detail then the fun starts need to do a priority triage of uh of requirements figuring out among all the things that are in the requirements draft how do they stack up against uh the importance of of actually satisfying them in a perfect world we'd have we we'd find easy to satisfy all of them the world's not perfect reality has a habit of intruding now A B and C in this slide is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "shown as in order but in practice are going to be going to be pursued concurrently because there will be feedback there will be feedback among them if we discover for example that there's a particular requirement that uh this all the solutions are having difficulty satisfying maybe that requirement's not not been stayed well and it needs to be uh and need to be refined um somehow out of all of this we we the hope is to converge on a set of solutions uh to progress that satisfy at least the most important requirements perhaps not all of them perhaps not comprehensively and somehow obtained working group rough consensus for all of this I think this is a point at which uh Group shares expect uh that uh I have a black hat a magic wand I'm going to produce a rabbit we'll see how we'll uh we'll see how well that works um okay a little bit more on priority triage um I mentioned this in the previous slide that the purple text is what's on the previous slide um in essence I want to sort sort of sort the requirements into sort of three categories must requirements if we don't satisfy the requirement we're wasting our time should requirements really does mean what what should is strong strongly recommend that we forgot how to satisfy it as there would be significant drawbacks to uh scale of debt and if not satisfied and may requirements it says in quotes nice to have there are some benefits notion can drawbacks if requirement is moved and if we discover requirements don't even make it to nice to have that's a strong suggestion that perhaps requirement ought to be removed from the requirements draft this set of mustard May applies to the entire set of of community Solutions we progressed there may there may well be more than one if there's more than one that's selected for progression different requirements could be satisfied by different solutions it's not necessary that a single solution"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "although that would be that would be nice and simple okay two more slides all right the dismantic design team did in fact get something useful done uh we figured out what we're up against in scheduling meeting times and it's not great so there are five important time zones uh for participants are listed here and there is no good meeting time across all five of these time zones so since I'm in the eastern time Eastern Time Zone I put the meeting times in Eastern time I'm hoping people can quickly convert their own time zone The Proposal is to alternate meetings uh between slots that are 12 hours off alternate between 8 and 10 in the evening eastern time and 8 and 10 in the morning Eastern time what happens here is that the 8 to 10 in the evening is bad for Europe uh eight to ten in the morning is bad for uh uh the Pacific time zone uh Us West Coast part of this is that um the some of these some of the time slots like uh this one are not great for Asia and based on interest we have a large uh set of of folks from Asia who want to participate I don't want to go it somehow doesn't feel right to hit um to to force all the meetings into uh the evening in Asia all working group open meetings will be recorded so those some of the meeting lands in a bad time zone you'll be able to uh to review the recording post frequency is every two weeks starting at the Oklahoma ietf meetings and there are the time slots for the proposed first uh for the proposed first two meetings uh April 11th uh the evening sought eastern time and uh April uh 26th the morning slot eastern time uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "what will happen on April 11th is for a lot of people that will be uh that will be sometime on April 12th so these meetings are in fact uh about two about two weeks apart last slide um we would invent your head of us welcome questions welcome comments welcome even dead cats and rotten tomatoes and a uh an Asian colleague a friend of mine reminds me that I need to explain my American cultural references this is a reference to The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn a well-known a well-known book uh oh by uh Sammy Clements AKA Mark crane okay open for questions and comments before opening the queue did you go back one slide yes so I put in the chat that we would like to get closure on timing before talking about any other topic uh we think it's really really important that as many people who want to contribute to this effort are able and that the meeting times can work for uh the collective group so um I would like to get feedback on this proposal uh if it's good for you feel free to say in chat it works it works for you if you have something that you would like to say about moving the time uh we would really appreciate you coming to the mic and and talking about that so with that uh uh back to you David to manage the queue all right I see turlesson Q Turtles uh go ahead uh on on Logistics and timing please right so um I think when you were looking for time slots you were asking the uh back then officially suggested members of uh the design team"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "um so maybe it would be good to to Simply check for the others that want to participate so in my case um I certainly want to want to put my tips on this time slot right five five a.m in the morning is a lot easier these days for me than in the evening and just you know if if if the others that want to participate who weren't asked can chime in equally maybe you can can update uh the the the total that you have otherwise I'll obviously make any slot yeah and it's this this is an attempt to this is an attempt to spread to to spread the inconvenience as I said there's no good meeting time across all five time zones that's actually the one thing that I I'm glad you're trying to do although I'm not remember that we've ever successfully managed to make people happy with the altering uh times if there's an example uh that would be good to know I mean as I said right I'm open for any anything my preference is is this time started you know go ahead poster proposed a meeting time but I do have a small concern regarding the alternate uh because it I I think it's not so common that we alternate every two weeks and given that the time looks at it it's a lot it's just 8 to 10 pm and 8 to 10 a.m the the the the change is there is only a very slight change people may get confused if they check their website and another thing is I I I haven't checked but if there is a for example a holiday um happened on I think that's Tuesday then we still need to make some notification in advance to say whether"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "we just bypass that for example the first time uh type first time slots or we just uh postpone it by still using the the first time slot something like that so my my comment is it looks like the alternating the time uh time slot is a little is a little bit hard for executing but I'm okay with their both the time slots actually yeah okay any other comments on Logistics so click on it is that there's um people don't love the alternating but can live with it and it does sort of spread the pain and you know we we sort of have that principle in the ITF so I'm not hearing any objection to uh to this proposal um I I do hear don't love it uh but I'm not hearing I can't live without it I can't live with it so ever I'm hearing everyone can live with this alternating schedule I see tourless uh come on uh come on back careless we go for it for a month or four meetings and then ask the question again right so very simple yeah yeah I think that's I think that would make that would make some sense let's let's try this and let's try this and see and uh see how see how see how well it works I mean intros it turns out my my preference is actually is actually for the 8 pm to 10 p.m time slot um I'm no good at 8am without a serious"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "dose of coffee so the series sorry go ahead coffee shoe song hi I am just the wondering I'm okay with that on the time proposal I just wondering oh well we have a kind of side meeting in uh in Japan because I think most of the people who care about this question will be there and it will be great if we can sit together face to face and just you know maybe just one hour is okay we can discuss about the the the the schedule or or anything else besides the the you know the the call meeting that will will start after the itm 116. this is just a proposal David do you want to say anything on that I have a thought on there uh I'm going to defer to you I mean my my my only comment on that is that um I um I will not be in Yokohama so but uh I'm willing to call in if we can get it scheduled for schedule of something other than uh then uh we hours of the morning [Music] uh okay that's uh that's fair I I would actually like to suggest that we have an informal side meeting for those that are there who are interested in the topic and to take advantage of the high bandwidth Channel and make it completely informal and self-organizing and not run by the by anyone with a hat you know so we don't need the tech advisor or the chairs to organize but just to uh self-organize meet talk about it talk through the different topics and then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "um uh bring back whatever the discussion was onto the list uh you know the the face-to-face is great for um uh high volume exchanges and um I I think um we should take advantage of it so song Thank you so much for uh for that and if you felt like putting in a request for uh a side meeting related it's a debt net yeah and if you need any support from the chairs or the AED I'm sure uh that would be forthcoming um since I mentioned this song I'm going to give her a chance to go first if you don't mind her jumping the queue and then you uh go ahead try to organize side meeting and it is a little pity that we will uh without debating in Japan but maybe we can send out um a link for the remote participations and also we will uh if there is a sign making as Lou has mentioned we we can summarize the process and um and discuss it in the main list yeah I would do this thank you sir and I want to reinforce what Lou said about going to list one of the reasons uh that I propose a a meeting every other week as opposed to every week is to encourage work to be done between the meetings and encourage work to be visible visible on the mailing list list that's ultimately where progress is progress is made and decisions are made yes I agree that is really important we will do that yeah really great suggestions appreciate it thank you that was uh when we take it to the list that's particularly ask uh the folks for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "feedback um from folks who will not be in Yokohama like David also at which points in time they would be able to join remotely to that uh site discussion um um and then we can set it up accordingly um get a room and so on so thanks uh she's on for for taking the lead and I'll be happy to chime in and support the logistics okay I think we uh Susan go ahead oh sure I just say thanks torlist okay I think we've covered Logistics and now uh David if you don't mind uh should we cover your the scope proposal and see if there's comments on the scope um sure so this is the this is the scope slide I think we can talk about scope where I can flip over to uh one of the process slides uh however you want to run it other people but wherever I'll go wherever people come to the mic would like me to go sorry let's go ahead you know monopolize the microphone so please everybody stand up here so I think as as an author on the scaling requirements uh draft right and and uh having um memorized your mass shots and everything I guess the way I see it is that we we should be concerned about how what we write in the requirements draft as a working group would be mapped to the design team right so in terms of what is out of scope um what is in scope and then what is in scope uh the must should and may would be more important to get right then you know I guess for the ones that are out"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "of scope where um we wouldn't address them immediately through this effort but through other TBD efforts in in the working group um and I guess um what I'm missing for that mapping is a little bit um I think the type of goals we think uh we can address with queuing right so in terms of if I look at the requirements draft it's it's talking about latency Jitter and a bunch of other things um and so maybe maybe there would be a way to say okay here is the the type of functionality that that we you know think we can address through um through the queuing um and that is Jitter that is a latency and I think and that's where I think also our requirements draft is mostly operator Focus which is the necessary starting point right but it may not expose all the you know vendor relevant properties uh to compare and I think that's that's where I'm struggling a little bit I don't have all the answer I just wanted to race um uh the point um that that some of those things we may want to compare things on are related to Hardware feasibility um I think the clocking um is is one good example that we do cover but yeah if you have any especially you know as the tech advisor have any more abilities to constraints the the things you think we we should and could achieve with the queuing that that would be great to have as added input into the process okay let's see I have to so so two reactions to that I think the first is that as we fill out the Matrix in Item B I think the which requirements are better addressed by queuing versus not uh particularly well addressed by queuing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "um will emerge and I'm hoping to see that as that goes along and the scale requirements draft gets gets refined that we we sort of focus in on what may what what makes sense this is not easy to do but uh the alternative of dictating the scope in advance and being inflexible about it doesn't feel like a good thing to do it's not really the way the way the ietf usually operates yarnash I I like what is on the slide the approach that refining the requirements first and then investigating giving us back because we should not just do queuing for the beauty of the queuing but to address the requirements so I like uh thank you um I agree with yanosh I think this is a very efficient method to uh try to evaluate method of uh QE mechanisms with the requirements uh listed in the requirement document and I also agree that queuing is the core of um you know solve the scaling problem and introducing the bonding latency uh and but my my concern is that there is seems no uh discussion point about the encapsulation because um I know the the core is the QE mechanisms because we rely on the QE mechanisms to provide bonding latency features but the you know from the perspective of the communication and Inter operation between different devices and the implementations the the in encapsulation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "may be another very important topic for um for this work so I'm I'm I just want to ask um will this also be considered during our discussion or it will be left after the queuing discussion um I'm tempted to try to to it sounds like a yes no question I'm tempted to try to answer it with a little bit of both um to the extent that the queuing mechanisms require additional information on the wire I would think that they would influence an encapsulation discussion but job one is to figure out the job one is figure out the queuing mechanisms I'm not sure really answered your question perhaps Lou or yanosh has a better answer yeah I actually completely agree with what you said and I'll remind uh people of the original charter which was very focused on not changing encapsulation no new encapsulation not changing the data plane so that principle should still apply but also um you know as David said if cueing requires some additional information that would inform a discussion on did on encapsulation changes yeah it sounds reasonable for me I think maybe the conclusion is that that will be the you know uh these two aspects will be considered together for example we discuss each kind of queuing mechanism and at the same time we will see whether these kind of mechanisms request new uh encapsulation for example"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "in IP header or other other kind of their three headers and so shall we make it another um you know item that we evaluate each mechanism whether it will request a new new encapsulation or not I don't know it's just you know we have to have a method to take it into the consideration when we discuss the queuing mechanisms because I think the the mechanisms will be really different and there are seems some um some foreign voice in our last uh last item meeting that maybe people uh is um is is requesting some uh some encapsulation that may can cover all the kinds of query mechanisms and may just pick the the shortest the simplest common part of different gear mechanisms and making the encapsulation change really small or yeah I think um my point is just that we should take it into consideration when we discuss the the queue mechanisms and evaluate them I think it's a fine consideration understanding of each mechanism what is the additional data that that that is uh that is required to be exchanged exchanged if any I think I think or call at least one mechanism um that was uh talking about not needing to exchange any additional data so I think that's a fine evaluation uh consideration okay okay thanks um thank you Yakov yeah hi everyone um when you're discussing the queuing I think there's a scalability issue which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "hasn't been addressed and sorry for not participating in this process and just dropping in here um but very important the unloading you're assuming uh on the lines and on the devices along the way if you're assuming that the loading is close to zero uh for instance there's nothing else on the line at all you have a path all to yourself then the queuing doesn't really matter once your loading is getting high then there's a big difference between the different queuing mechanisms and I think that has to be addressed because there are there are certain mechanisms like our TSN friends in in the ethernet World um where they block out everything else and uh worst case you can guarantee uh absolute bounds but you reduce the capacity that you can actually use on the line by a large factor and there are other mechanisms um which uh don't have to drop that much capacity okay I mean I will I I would observe that if um the uh traffic uh that is offered is always less than the outgoing bandwidth the cues are always emptying queuing queuing is kind of pointless which I think is uh is an extreme version of the point you're making yeah um extreme version as I said before there's an extreme version in qbv uh where I simply say every uh time sensitive flow gets its own uh window and whether it's not it's Gonna Fill that window or whether or not it's going to need that window in this time around in the in the scheduling gate uh in the gate schedule um I I reserve it and uh while on the other hand there are mechanisms like EDF and my proposal that was uh a draft a while ago um which don't have to uh Reserve uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "capacity um they're they're more like diff server rather than inserve and ietf terminology uh and I think that's a major difference um and I think it's a scalability issue because scalability doesn't always just mean the number of devices in your network it also means the amount of bandwidth you want to or data rate you want to handle um and that's um from the both analytical and and uh simulation work that uh I've been doing with my uh academic hat that's a critical uh issue for for comparison I'm wondering if that marriage discussion the requirements draft my own personal feeling is that the required draft goes into a lot of detail on timing uh which is not always that important once again depending on what your timing errors are but if you're um uh your bounds are in the tens of milliseconds and your timing errors are in the microseconds then the whole discussion is moot um obviously if you're looking for timing uh bounds in the uh low uh microseconds and your errors are microseconds and it's a major issue um on the other hand yes loading is not discussed as much yeah I was just discussed on the list towards uh uh possibly Landing text and requirements draft issue this is more about what's suggested by shares also I think probably we can add a uh the second bullet to item C because in the uh page two actually would you please sure yeah switch to page two uh yeah there go one of the courses"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "their information and definition that will be common so we need to identify whether there is common elements or not or we would like them to be put in common such thing so it looks to me that it is worse to put a second bullet to item C in page three to show that for I for each of the proposed queuing solution uh what other uh what other maybe the like the encapsulation or elements so that we can evaluate whether there are commandity among different solutions so that's just a suggestion to this tentative approach okay two of us that's that's really a core point and if you have any you know suggestions for the requirements document please bring them up um be happy to um you know consider them um uh how to put them in uh in my opinion I think the problem is a little bit that um uh something as fundamental as uh you know in the forwarding plane data plane uh to propose and put better mechanisms is a very long term um thing and and therefore a lot of the you know um Logistics around must should and may um that are very that are typically very well known up front are um with respect to things like the load of of that net traffic um very very difficult to predict um but um you know I can say from what I would feel similar experiences with the um you know bringing multicast into networks and and also having the same"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "discussion right how much multicast is in your network right can't you simply you know use unicast replication which to me would be the equivalent of you know use better diff surf type mechanism to solve the problem right that that always ended up um you know with customers feeling very um unsure about going down a particular path um with respect to scaling unless we could show that um the solution we have can scale to much Fuller load in the network did then operator networks achieve require that for loading long term quite different answers to that right so I I'd have a hard time guaranteeing that there is a must for you know a 90 traffic being that net but I can certainly tell you that there is a very big risk of customers not wanting to buy into a dead Net Solution if um it wouldn't be able to uh scale up to that percentage of traffic foreign that may also be a useful discussion to reflect requirements to draft I mean as as it says in the slide I pursue all of these uh concurrently I expect the requirements draft to evolve as we learn more about uh what the solutions are capable of and what the trade-offs uh are um uh in in this area Yakov another issue um which I don't know has been discussed um what is the objective are we going for an absolute bound which must be 100 conformed to or do we allow um some kind of play that is are we having a Target um for a Bound for a packet to arrive at Final Destination but let's say one percent of the time it might uh not meet it and if that means that the application has to drop it then it uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "contributes what's effectively packet loss um since this can be packet loss on the network anyway I think that's something relevant and uh once again it changes it it extends the number of queuing mechanisms that you can look at foreign I would definitely prefer to look at a broader set of queuing mechanisms from the outset as opposed to imposing hard real-time requirements up front there is certainly a set of applications that have hard real-time requirements but that's that is not the entire set of applications that net is aimed at okay so if I understand you correctly then you're that you're saying that I wouldn't call it real time but hard deadlines or absolute upper bounds are not the uh requirement you could have something which uh statistically meets abound and that will allow a whole slew of other QE mechanisms to be to be used expressing a preference to look at at a set of queuing mechanisms and I'll observe if you go look at the use case wrap you'll find a number of applications in there that don't have heart that don't have really hard upper bounds okay um turnless and then balas and I'm very much split here right so as far as selling something like a dead Net Solution under the term deterministic I'd have a hard time to not have the heart Bond because I think that's all the industry has been I guess thinking about how um how to interpret the term deterministic and I think that's also how you would read all the architecture documents that we've written it even more so when I even started Yakov to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "have the same discussion years ago ago when Norm Finn and other IEEE people were more present in in that net that was kind of their golden requirement so I would uh if if we go down the road of software targets then let's make sure that we don't sneak it in um through this process but make it more obvious and ideally give it a somewhat different name um and not bounded latency but you know come up with with another term so that we make clear that this is an extension of what I very much hope you agree was the original intent which is hard about but yeah I'm I'm certainly happy to have this effort also look into that so a couple comments the first bullet under open working meeting goals is information definitions and I think we're now exploring some use some interesting information and definitions and the requirements draft already has some material in it on uh different levels of detnet service that could accommodate this pause yeah yes uh so I just wanted to reflect the yakov's comment so it's a yes hard bounds are definitely part of the story so as you David also referred to the use case draft um maybe I I would comment in that way that uh definitely starting the discussion with the Rica I romance that would help us a lot in order to understand better what this hard balance means um but what I have learned in the in the last couple of years discussing with uh with owners of use cases at various industrial players is that sometimes they are formulating somebody differently the requirements as as we are doing uh in the in the turquo and in the ietf environment for example so uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "industrial player can also say that I have control cycles and that should be at least one of the control cycles of two that we control Cycles error free and and that is something differently defined as we usually have requirements in in ITF so just saying that one percent of the uh of the of the traffic may may uh just not meet this heartbound I think that that will not be the case so we need some discussion on the requirements thank you agree Lou you want to jump in before uh well I was going to give yaakov one minute to and then uh end the meeting so jakov I didn't mean to kick you out of queue um if you want to I took myself out of it okay well then I typed it wrong because um anyway uh we're at the end of this uh meeting um before we thank everyone for coming David do you have any uh final words uh I just want to thank everyone for uh participating um as the last slide says uh we have it we haven't we have an event Adventure ahead of us and uh I think this is a start this is a start thank you uh well uh thank you all uh who have come to contribute um it's clear that we're going to have some really good discussions at the upcoming meeting and then in these open meetings uh you know it's it it's really important to have as many people contribute to this as uh possible so that we um Can gauge working group consensus and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "make sure that what's brought to the working group is uh matches the consensus of the group and of course thank you to our Tech advisor David block for his willingness to uh Shepherd these discussions and uh with that we will see each other uh those in person uh or virtually in just a few weeks or just a couple of weeks um thank you all and see you soon okay foreign"
  }
]
