[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:42",
    "text": "K. It's 9:30, so we can start welcome, everyone. This is the conversation at TF1 18. I am Michael chairs are high measurements and custom board managers, sitting there in case you don't see it on the screen. People here at the meeting are assumed to have read the documents, in agenda for today. We plan to hopefully make good use of time for face to face. Hibern the discussion to progress the documents and as better comes in next slides, of course, not well applies. The attendance sheet is filled automatically through Miteco speaking of which, please, sign in even if you are in the room, scanning the QR code also the web, interface. Jess will pay attention to the chat. We have Christians, the official notetaker, but a are the people volunteer to help and please, everyone, help you find a link to the notes. The data tracker and now also in the chat. Kirsten. Yeah. I just wanted to say somebody has put the conditioning into translunar injection mode, And, so we really have to make sure that we are hearing ourselves very, very clearly because it the air conditioning is way way too low. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "Okay. And this is an official TFmeeting. So then not well applies. Get familiar with it if you're not already. You should have seen this quite sometimes this week, already. It's about IPR and and every responsible disclosure of those to the best of your knowledge. It's also in the specialty about, archive of conduct. So please be nice and professional with one another a few, particularities, and we're being recorded also going to the Northwell. If you are participating, in presence, in the room, place sign in Imitiko again through the QR code and web interface. You can use the on-site tool on your mobile or, the full tool on the web interface, in that case, please keep your audio and video of If you want to go to the queue, please join the queue on 1st. Then go to the mic. Then you release yourself on the queue. For remote participants, please keep your audio, and video off unless you're presenting or, talking at the queue and try to use a headset. If you cannot talk and you're remote, please like make or something in the chat to relay your question. So this is the, agenda, for today once we finish this, introduction, we first considered 2 documents from the core conv cluster, Cident Komei. And then constraint resource, identify as a trough. That we have, well, 2 incarnations of group communication for coop winning the group committee's document and the pubsub architecture for co op. And then we continue with DNS over co op with key updates for our score, or kudos performance measurement, for co op. And we conclude with, presentation collective, feedback around topics and documents, following the TTRG meeting we had, last Friday."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "And the document that was also presented in the late session earlier this week, does anyone have, any meshing or change the proposed to this agenda. Her nun, Okay. Let's quickly go through the status of the documents Incor, we got one recently, approved for, publication as an informational, RFC target at, so compared to your due for the actual as an RSC, but it should, definitely, be shown for the next 30th meeting, I suppose. Thanks a lot for working on this anyway. Then we have again in ISG, processing, since it's coming back to the working group that resulted in also the new working group plus goal. This currently, under SG evaluation, there's work from the cohort for addressing, different comments and ballots. And it's awesome today's agenda for some update. We also have, score, ADOC, an IETF last call describing how to use ADOC specifically for, COP and no score. Yeah, it's in last call for a few more days. After which the, authors plan to get back on addressing, the received reviews. Both of us is the, assigned AD which is a very good sales. He acted as, AD also for the main edit documents in the lake working group, then we have, quite a bunch of documents, post, working group plus call, a different stages. So the group of score, document, produced a few revisions, recently mostly to address the the review our shepherd, Christian, and now it's, waiting on the follow-up. From Christian and hopefully for the write up."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:04",
    "text": "From the core conv cluster, we, also, Umai, they completed a working group last call. There are comments from it. To be addressed. It's also an agenda for today, and we have a shepherd already. Appointed. Young library is technically, postworking group last called for a long while waiting for shipper right up, but it's it was practically on ice to wait for the completion, of seed and kamai before we can get back to it. And, most likely after will will run, any working robust call to but still, post working group plus call, that's also the case for, group of this, also in the agenda for, today, recently received, one more, review, from John Mattson that was addressed in this latest version, but otherwise, it completed, working or plus call 3 versions. In the past, and we are practically waiting for well, receiving feedback, from the working repository, the expected shipyard. Is Carson. Conditional attributes also completed the working group last call. We are waiting for the office to address some of the remaining, comments before we can move on, but it was confirmed already at the previous meeting that the intention is to to switch this from, informational to Sander's truck. Don't use about that. And then we have Ahref also in the agenda for today. It it did pass working or plus call, there are still some points to be addressed and the few new ones that have come up in recent discussions. On other documents, one working group, item was also updated recently, multicast notifications, though not in the agenda for today, and one was, recently adopted Oscar capable, proxies."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "There's one document, pending, working group adoption, Call for a while, you've come proxy. That was considered on version 6 and since then, well, it hasn't happened yet, and then there would be a number of rebump as is and that's Franchescanacube. Yes. So, Francesca Papini, I was just wondering about the group comp proxy document because my understanding was that there was, consensus to be adopted during a meeting, and then it was supposed to be confirmed in the mailing list. I believe. And then that call was never done, I think. Please correct me if I'm wrong. So if there isn't any reason, then let's just Good. Good. Done. Thank you. Thanks. And, yes, other documents, there have been a number of, individual submission resubmitted, recently mostly from, Christian side, and they appear in in the, aggregate is loaded. We have towards the end of agenda. Please hover it into these documents. Come back with comments preferably on the list. And as a last related, piece of news you may have noticed that, RC 92 was recently published just to advertise some use of co op, even if, not developed in in this working group. But, inase. In this case, which is very good result. Some report from the academy build cumulative during the past days, there has been some activity on corkons, Thanks, Juan. He progresses his implementation, especially in the interest proceed so that confirms the overall, direction and content, of the draft non security card, really fine"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "found, and Coors also suggested some, minor improvements, qualification, and proposal for minor additions that you can find also. On the mailing list. We had progress also on the implementation of, Pubsub Jaime's progress, this implementation, also available on the GitHub. And it was a whole team, working on implementation to support the club API for developing, applications for, for co op in the riot OS. The work is still to to progress, but, you can find some code already on the GitHub and more details, in the hackathon slide they presented also linked in this slide this is, a summary of the next core entry meetings. Also, anticipated a few events ago, agreed on the list and, sync with a seabor working group to keep alternating as usual. So core as the odd weeks, we'll have the the 1st next interim meeting in 2 weeks from today, basically. And, honestly, we plan to have, the second one in this list in early December, case we have something you just have very important to discuss that can come up. And during the next weeks, especially considering that it's holiday in Finland. That date. But then it should be pretty much regular. In 2024. This concludes the summary from the chairs. So if there's no question or comment, we can get on the 1st agenda item from Kirsten. It's not that easy. It's Oh, K. Good morning. 100"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:04",
    "text": "k. So I want to you can quickly talk about, call I don't think we, we have big decisions to make here at the moment. Really just working on the details. Just as a reminder, we have a published RFC with, yang representation in Siba. So people are looking add that in in a lot of other working groups as well. But this is finished and, the there's the the one action that we are keeping in our mind is that maybe we want to have some more compact forms of items that are text based in Yang. So for instance, if you have an IPV 6 address and represent this in Yang, you get text based representation, hexadecimal, representation within Chesapeake's colon. So that's something we may want to address. But we we do have a solid basis on on which to do So the second document, that that is in the ISG, now. Is concerned with allocating Sid's Yang's schema identifiers. This doesn't have any interdependency with a Yang Seabod definition, except that both agree, agree, that SIDS, 63 root integers. 63 with unsigned integers. But, of course, the the, extreme efficiency that Yang Seabaugh gives you is, to a large part, base on being able to use sits instead of, full text based pass names as as restCon, for instance, that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "So this has been on on the back burner for about 7 years. And we have had extensive discussions with IANA. And we are currently just trying to to, get the ISG. On board with this, and we had a very good meeting on Monday. Which, reused the number of discussed discussed positions on this document too. From 3 and let's see whether the other eighties find time to do this this week or maybe next week. Then the the third thing just like there are netconf for for doing yang over SSH. And rest comfort during over GDBS. There is something called, Komi, which is part of the core conflicture and, is Jing over COIP. So we have, working with plus call. Past implementations are ongoing And one feedback from those implementations, I come to this is we can still simplify this. And and since we are the constrained, restful environments group, we probably should take these, hints. And the 4th element is the, yang Library. Originally, Netcon had, something like an initial negotiation phase in which the the server, which usually is the device and and the client, agreed on which yang modules are available and this was replaced by something called the the Yang Library. And we didn't put any negotiation phase in in, Koma, of course, because we we now do it using a young library. But the ying library that is, standard for ying is way too complicated and so the idea was to have a simplified constraint"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "Again, Library, we we have a, complete draft passworking plus call, but it seems inappropriate to advance this at this point in time, while the other thing being worked on. So, course, it is number 23, not 22, and, was, submitted during the moratorium this addresses, in particular, the the ISG comments, and in particular, this the discussed positions I think we may need to spend a couple of days to actually addressing the rest of the the comments, but those are in yet This was discussed in 2 ISG meetings, you have to remember this whole sit scheme is is quite innovative. Nobody has ever done something like that before. And, so it's understandable that that ISG has questions. So as I said, the number of discuss positions on blocking votes from the ISG has, gone from 3 to Toon? This week, mostly because, the the actually agreed that that certain consistency requirements he he had in mind don't really work in this space because we have existing documents that that are out there that define yang modules, and we have to deal with them. And probably in a slightly different way than and we deal with new documents. So right now, we we are still clarifying final the final the state publishing process. Ayena seems to be on board just have to to do the remaining discussions with the ISG The the other construction side, we had is that that PA wasn't quite, conforming to this, document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "and, we we started some peeling work and, then we had an interesting situation where Laurent was making some poor requests that 2, GitHub showed him, but not me. So, I'm not seeing his folk. I'm not seeing his poor request. Everything is public. Nobody knows what's happening. We probably need next week to to sluffed. It's yeah, so this is the status of, Cassid. And this would be a good time to ask questions about carsid. When when this document is approved, next step, of course, is to take all those specifications that already are referenced from COSID So we have some initial allocations of Sid Rangers. That are already in the document, so we don't have to to wait for the registry to actually be uh-uh, installed and we can, start generating the sit files for those other documents well. And Christian, is on the in the queue. Just a brief brief question or not, could, at some point, given that this now this is now finishing, we have some venue where there could be a say, tutorial, tutorial introduction to recession because people have this has been around for quite quite a lot of time. But people are coming into this working group who haven't kind of get the trickle down effect of seeing seeing 10 years of presentations And I think this kind of one intro session at some point. Thanks. Yeah. We we can do this in Brisbane. We we don't really know how how big the the take up of a session in Brisbane will be with, travel cost and time zones and so on. But, of course, that would be recorded. We also could just do something like an interim"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "to do this So I have a great little slide set from Scott Mansfield. Who told IBB in July 2022, this is now as good as done, so we have to get our mega range. And she explained the thing. Yeah, interesting. Time but the the good point. Okay. The the, other document somebody has to take of the Q and he doesn't. Do it itself. The other document is the the Koma document. So how can can we compete with netconf and riskconf. And, obviously, we don't want to do that. Want to do the something that is appropriate for constraint devices. And, the working plus call ended, some 6 weeks ago and, there's a little more implementer, feedback since. So what is this, call my thing? As I said, Netron for the original yang protocol, young, young based protocol, essentially does Yang Xfinity of SSH. It's, kind of stuck on XML because the protocol also uses XML, not only the the data that are encoded in yank, resconf is yangxmloriyangjason over HTTP, and you definitely can use Yang Sibo. Over HTTP. So you can do that today. And core conference, yangzibo, over over co op. And, Qualcomm re relies on Yang Sibo and the management of the space. So that there are essentially 2 emails that, you want to, reach"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "one is from, Koon. Thank you. So, reports that that his implementation is going well. But we still have opportunities for simplifying core And, one thing that we we could get rid of is a separate resource for doing full data store. Operations. So a full data store operation is essentially reading the whole yang stage of a device, or instilling a completely new configuration. To the device and and one put And, we could just map this to a fetch, or I patch of, set 0 and we probably should do that. That 0 has been reserved for this kind of use so that that looks like a simplification chopping off another five pages of of document. Yeah. A comment that both Koon and Andy would who gets to the next slide, made was that, the semantics of multiple RBCs or actions in 1 payload. Are not defined So we should do something here. Andy comments that, we usually have all or nothing. Semantics, semantics, something like that. And we probably should discuss whether concerned devices can do that. Mean, you can send a really complex set of updates in one piece and on one hand, this is exactly what you want. Don't want half the updates to go through. On the other hand, that, of course require some rollback mechanism in the implementation that that maybe yeah, expensive, from an implementation point of view, you may have problems actually finding the memory for the road back"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "state So maybe that's something we actually can address using the Yang Library. Draft. So so Sabah says whether it it supports, all or nothing, semantics or not. So that that's the we have to have. And if you have an opinion on this, that would be nice to hear it. And, when we, while we are doing this, there are still some editorial remnants, of, things that we no longer need and preach and take them out. Okay. So let let's, go on to Andy's man. India is a co author, so it that's a bit weird. To have him respond to working with last call. But, of course, you know, that not all calls has fully involved all the time, and Andy is a very busy person. So we we have, working with us call call a comment from, and, he has, very good comments, some of which editorial, having examples for media type, for each new media type we are defining, is is absolutely required. Of course, we need to do that. There is some, some confusion about what kind of data. So we are supporting. So we are not doing a full NIMDA set to current config and and all this stuff, we are just providing a simple unified data saw, which probably makes it even more important to have, all the nothing semantics And, there there are some references to Nirmdas network management data store architecture. Is that the Briosha as a the extension of the abbreviation, I don't remember. There are some some remnants talking about Ninda and and commerce is defined as not meant, to do nimda There there is, heck"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "in the document that simplifies instance identifiers and responses, and, that may be another thing we we can discuss so, in Jane, the the schema nodes have since so that they are very easy to to address, but the schema node may be something in a list So if you have, 5 interfaces on your constraint device, maybe not, but, you would have a list of interfaces and you have to say which interface you want to to see the bit rate or whatever attribute of. So you compliment the Sid with a key Sorry for using the word key, but that's the word that's being used. So an instance identifier is a SIDGE plus, optionally, one or more, keys. And the the question is, does a response really have to identify all these keys again? And right now, identifies the top sit just to make sure that the Cboe yan compress works right. So that that's really the job of that information. But it it's, simplification, and it makes the the actual response data structure not quite conforming to Yang because, yeah, you would have to give the keys with the cinch to really say what what this is about. Their risk control has a filter parameter called depth, because you don't want to to retrieve the the entire universe in in one get Do we need that? Yeah. I think that that's a future request, but one we, we could be looking at, in particular, since we don't have the pagination"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "thinking by now has a pagination feature that allows you to split the response in into a multiple pieces. And we only have block wise for that, and that that hard to to operate from the how they are to to to, operate from the application there. I mentioned all in on semantics, there are some more editorial comments on examples for RBC action responses, the the leading 0 doesn't make sense. As we we probably simply going to fix that. And, then the the old thing about, appendices, some people think that dependencies are by default informative. No. They aren't, but it doesn't hurt to to say that again. And So that that's one of his Victoria comments. This will be probably another week or so of of, fixing the the document to to, corporate all the working group last call comments or the the last call happened around IEGF 1 17 Marco, put in a great review. These are addressed in the editors copy, and I only had slides for the things that are no. This is the wrong slide. Sorry. Okay. There there should be a slide here about the plan, but, I think it's obvious we want to put in these comments, republish and then maybe do another 1 week working plus call to make sure that everybody is onboard k. That was cockroach. There is no client, then I go on the next item on the agenda. You know, you're way into the HR slot already almost the end of it, but it's only two slides. So It's only two slides. So I I think I can make a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "so Adrefice is an ongoing project that, we had a last call on where Marco's review was on. Sorry. We are still in lack of test vectors, So that's really one piece of of implementation work. That should be done. There are implementations of CRIs, but we don't have an agreed search of, test vectors. So this probably should be done before we submit this to the ISG. And I think that the main thing that can be reported here is we started out with here, I was thinking we would support what we would find in COEP So the the scope has its own UI encoding that is kind of smeared between various, quote options. Then people came and said, we can't really use this if we that's, that's not get translated into a CLI. So we want to do a whole say, replacement, so we leaned into that direction And, maybe we swung the pendulum too far. And, we we now have a form that is very explicit that the the stuff you have to do to do a full UI support is an extension. It's not part of the base here. I said, So things like percent encoded characters that cannot be resolved by by ingesting URI and turning it into a is an extension and, we we thought we might simply find out we will simplify things a bit but not but not completely, but I think we are kind of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "accepting that and and, can finish it with based on k. Three bits of things. By the way, there were comments in the chat from Alex Fang we'd appreciate to have an overview on core compensate And isn't looking now, Alex, Yep. Hello. Alex Wang in yeah, I it was regarding the command, from Christian, yeah, I I I find it useful to have a tutorial somewhere adding some reference to the bright graphs and bright RFC so that people can know, okay, which, which session is linked to each other. I find the SIP or SIP the young young seat, are draft, quite clear to me. But, for example, I was, I sent a unique email to to Carson regarding how from a transport protocol and data plane could know if this is encoded with young seats and are not. So I think this kind of, like, trick here on there could be very useful in a tutorial, and also presented on the on the core. As I said in the in the chat, I am more interested in the young seed because I am implemented in net of the push protocol. But, yeah, I support this idea. Basically, Thank you. Thanks. Any more questions or comments for Karsten on either set of documents. None? Okay. Thanks, Carson. And next is ESCO. To convince Okay. Thank you. Testing the mic. Steep."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "Okay. And the clicker. Yeah. I'm just trying to have a look into the last call that was mentioned for CRI. I could not find it back in my mail, but So it was already done, right, you were saying, or Oh, not. Maybe not. Okay. Maybe I misread the slides and then there was a date of July, on it for the last call. Okay. Never mind. We'll continue. So this is group, combiz has been around for some time, already. So I'm giving a short of few. Let's see. We have to press here. Is that never money. Escrowed Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Just to recap, what is this document about? Well, we have, an earlier experimental RFC 7390 So this talks about coup group communication for co op, and Yeah. It's it's just defined as an experimental So the idea was, well, we need something that is, normative so we can, reference it from the newer drafts like, group or score. So that's what we've been working on. So the idea is to obsolete the, predecessor, RFC, And in the meantime, also add some Yeah. Yeah. Good things or things that we found, to clarify and update in other RFCs like, co ops 7252 and observe as well. 7641 so this become can become a new standard stack reference for implementations that do coopgroupcommunication. See there's a small mistake here in the scope, slide so that's scope is not only IP multicast based group communication, but we also talk about go up a group communication when used over all the transports. So that's also, in scope,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "And the main, thing is that we now basically mandate security also for group communication, so in form of a group of core. And we also provide details on specific cases where you account to use security for some reason and and Yeah. Yeah. Explain, why that is why it's not secured in this case and why it has to be secured in all the other cases. And a lot of more clarifications, So now it works. Good. So I'm just reporting here what are the main updates since last time, I think it was presented with slides in the IETF, and I I could find this one. The IETF one on the 12. Plus already a while ago. So we're just saying what what's new since then, So we have some new things, At the top, In the middle, we have some things that were clarified. And We have provided more details for a particular sections. So the new things, there is now a new subsection appeared Yeah. Regarding proxies. So to do a single group request to multiple proxies, And there's also, transport section added. So what if we do, multicast over 6 lopon. Are there any specific con consideration for that case when you want to use COB group communication, and and there are actually, so, one particular example is the fragmentation that happens in 6 local networks. Which is typically bad, in combination with multicast. Let's see. I think one of the important thing that's Yeah. clarified is now, terminology wise. So, Yeah. We we think we make a more clear separation between the difference group types and also clarify what is exactly a group URI"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "And as I said, so when you can use COB NasAC, the mode without security, That's now also clarified Okay. Then we did one recent update. This was, October 23. Very recent. And this addresses, the comments of the review that was done by John So he did a quite extensive review of the whole documents. Again, And, yeah, there's basically 4 main items that that came out of it. They're listed here on the slides. So, these are all addressed. I think So in most cases, it was, rewording and clarification. And in case 2, we actually added a specific use case for using the unsecured discoveries, which is when you are using protocols for device onboarding. So that's typically when a new device comes into network and new domain that it doesn't know about It has to be onboarded, and it has to discover, okay, what are device here that's gonna help me onboard, and there's no a priority security relation in that case. Then they will typically use unsecured discovery, which could be co op discovery, what are the next steps here? So we had made it last updates we're now waiting for John and perhaps working group to confirm that these comments were addressed. We also had the working group last call done in April 22. And the review comments from that were also addressed So we are just waiting for confirmation Yeah. That these comments were indeed, well addressed. I think then, This document can move on in the process. Unless we find all the nice things to add"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "like we were collecting bits and pieces over the years adding them, which was also has been quite useful. But, at some point, yeah, you wanna conclude, I think, with doing that. I leave the rest of future documents. Sorry. It's just an overview of issues. So we we do keep them in GitHub. So there's no open issues and one editorial Paul request that's, is already, I think, included the 10, most of it, but I think we need to do one final check because I found at least one item that wasn't yet addressed and it looks so very editorial. So we can we can do that soon. I hope Okay. That's it. So if there were any questions, Feel free to ask. Any questions for resco? Not in the chat at least. Hignan Thanks a lot. No. Okay. Thanks. Next suit. So hello, everybody again. The pops up draft. Let's start right away. So, I mean, skip some of the history, but this is not new draft. Has been there forever, and not recently has been revamped and revived and updated So, not made or breaking changes with the previous one, but it would require some adaptations, some implementation, some some some you know, some changes if you already have one. High level overview. The idea is to have a co op server, which I as a broker, on a store's, topic resources, and then the clients act as publishers and subscribers."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "And then, they they publish on a topic data resource and then they subscribe to the same topic data resource using co op, sir. That's the high level overview. The there is 2 types of resources, let's say, on the broker. That the the structure is that of a topic collection, which you have topic configuration resources hand hanging those topic configurations are usually for that are used for administrative purposes. So creating the the the topic structure configuring the topic, you know, figuring the properties of the topic whether you have, these many subscribers that many subscribers supported and so on. And, well, you can see that the the operations, I'm not gonna mean this was already presented in the previous IETF. So I'm not gonna go in detail on that, but basically, from that topic configuration, you have one topic one property called topic data, which is the place where you actually do the pops up operations. So if that's the actual resource that you need to discover in order to publish sensors. Correct. The one concept that some people have told me about that they were intrigued is the life cycle part. So because we have a topic configuration and a topic data, when you delete a topic data resource, which is an entry within the configuration. You don't necessarily delete the whole topic. You go back to what we call have created states. So you have the have created and they're fully created. And this basically means that a topic only really exists if he has the topic configuration has been created topic data exists, and somebody has published something on that. At that point, you can subscribe on it, and it behaves like a you know, the usual pops up type of behavior And there you have the example. So on on the left side, you have the topic creation part. On a post on a on the collection resource, which is not hardcoded or anything. It just happen be slash PS, but it could be whatever. Whatever path, I mean. And then you go back, the handler for that particular"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:03",
    "text": "configuration and within the fields that you have created, in which you have the properties I mentioned before, you have the topic data. And then on this operation, by the way, I didn't mention that, but that that should be done probably by some sort of administrative entity or you know, someone that actually handles the topics and so on. While the while the pops up. Part is done by the application. So you get the topic data you pass host it at the broker, and then you can do, publish and subscribe on it. And that's basically the the whole thing. So what is the new thing So on the Only implementation side. So did the last couple of hackathons basically implemented a version of this? you need On top of a co op, which of course, without it, it wouldn't be possible. And then the the main thing is that in this IETF, I implemented the I did updates on the spec, which I will mention at the end. Sorry for that. But I implemented the I patch for updating, partially updating the topic configuration. Vech on the topic collection. I actually did delete because for some reason, I forgot last time, I don't know why. And then, yeah, RT based discovery around covering things. I'm just few few updates you on there. So but it's usable and as I said in the previous IT have also, like, probably easier to just go to open source ripple there on checking it out then to read the whole thirty pages document. It's faster. So what what we promised in the last idea for this version was to check the all of these fields, Ayana, blah blah blah, and all that. So this is what has been accomplished for this version. So we, we do have now, Diana section, the use of max age. So basically for rate limiting. Yeah, it was not done properly. So, actually, that that section was rewritten as well. Security section. Thanks with the input from Marco, actually, in the reviews. I will mention that later as well, but,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "the security section is is now there more or less in shape. Using the placebo in the implementation, which basically means plugging in the library. Yeah, implementing the operations I mentioned before. Yeah. Add it to server check field. So when you have subscribers, when you when you have subscribers, to a topic. The broker needs to sometimes tweak this field in order to regulate idled subscribers. Because it could it could happen that you have this subscribers, 1000 or whatever, and half of them are totally utilized. They don't care anymore about the notification. So this will allow you to to quickly see that situation and and fix it. From the broker point of view. Then, yeah, the we added the on the document, we had the topic collection discovery. Add the updates to to examples, added more examples, at least I like examples on the document because it's much easier to understand. So this one has plenty yeah, there were some issues in the issue tracker. From the the so document issues from really way back I replied to some of them. I think I didn't get replies back. I don't know who if the those are for in those issues are following this anymore. But, yeah, some of those were were valid and actually triggered edits in the document. So Thanks for that belated, very belated thanks to to the commenters. And then, we I got 2 really good reviews. One from, Marco is of the now a contributor document. Thank you so much for that. And from Oscar, and then reviews of little parts here and there, but I would like much more comprehensive reviews, not that the document is more stable. Now then the one of the topics that we thought could be nice to add, but that I would be leaning towards not adding it is the hosting of data resources elsewhere. In the broker. I'll explain that in a moment. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "I'm referring to this. So I even started drafting it and all that. And but the you can have the topic data resource normally at the Brooke If you host it on a different server. The problem is that you need to keep a lot of state now between that server and the, and the broker for that particular for each topic configuration. And then that will require more protocol stuff, more messaging, in in general is something that it sounds great and in this document, we should definitely have the capabilities for that type of extension, but in my opinion, it should should go on a different document not to overload this one. At least that's my take on it. Casting just seemed Eager? Yep. Yep. Alright. Yeah. Rediscussed this. And, I think what we came up with is that a client of the pops up Portricola The subscriber tire a client of the Pubsub protocol subscriber. Should expect the topic data resource to be on a different Server. So that's part of the protocol right now. If you go back one slide, Yep. That line between the the the one chip and the other chip. That is not defined. And that is easy to add as a separate document. I wouldn't even call this an extension because the the the Pubstop interface doesn't change. It's we just now have a way a standard way. For a a topic data holder to communicate with the a broker. But you could do this with a proprietary mechanism today. So so you can still have this situation and, subscribers should be prepared to to find it that way."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "I I agree with that. Yes. I press it differently, but I agree. Right? Yeah. Well, publishers will hit maybe have to take part in this protocol. So I think we we can guarantee compatibility on the subscriber part I'm not so sure about the public. Levin. You're in the queue. Alright. David Nava. I have a question on this cope of this work So when once about about, for me to subscribe he want and helps to think about, MQTT. And, use cases and deployment of impurity are using That's be conservative. You enjoy this of publishers and subscribers. And hundreds of topics. Closer. So I'm sorry. It's really windy here. I mean, I really he had it. It to be really close to the mic. So Yes. N is it the the scope of this, of this document, or are you planning for something much more constrained. I'm always it's not a consideration at all. So that Could could you rephrase the question again with because I didn't follow the relation with MKD at the end. Let's say if I were to use a go up pops up to replace scenario where I'm using MQTTY. Mhmm. Currently, I have the feeling that I will face a scalability problem. Mhmm. Because, for instance, in the topic discovery, when you are using MQTTY, a publisher will out of band tell you, I will publish my data on this particular topic."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "And for the subscriber, it's you just have to say, I'm subscribing to to this topic with the current mechanism, you have to do a discovery of the existing topics. Mhmm. And from my understanding, you have to, in that, all the configuration to find the topic which much the right description online. No. No. No. You you can do fetch on the topic collection based on whatever senior looking for. You can do sorry. I think I would disagree with the office here. When in that situation where the publisher communicates to the subscriber, the topic I'm not sure whether they should really communicate the topic and then let the scriber get run to fetch, but just cut, communicate the topic data resource. I think that would be something they can do. So just to clarify when I say, I mean, I meant topic configuration resource, not the topic data. You're right. Like, you can do on the topic collection resource. They said you want to find, based on the name, feel of the property. You could do discovery based on that. You don't need to discover the whole select a subset, if you wish. But, yeah, I mean, in in coop discoveries, feature Okay. So I missed that. So okay. Thank you. And Yep. I had another question on the the of the topic creation Yep. This is also, and to answer also a question. The immacurity use cases you you don't have you are not fully aware of the the timing of You don't know if the publisher will appeal before the prescriber or Right. Or the other veterans. So topic are implicitly created by as the first subscription or the first publication. And I'm wondering with this, creation step that is introduced. If,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "if this is still possible. So I guess from what you would just and and third, you will do, discovery And if you can't find the topic that you are interested in, you can create. Even if you are just a subscriber. Yes. And of course, that creation optimization, I mean, the creation process could be optimized. You could do a post with the topic, resources that you that you like. And then, do some sort of configuration step in topic data is already populated, but you need to have some resources presentation there, otherwise, you get 404. Because there's nothing there from the core point of view. So the URI is present, but there is no actual data. So I don't know. I mean, I I am open for suggestions how to fix that, by the way, if anybody else. As comments. Okay. So Trissa said, to sum up my comments, I'm worried of the is of use Alright. This protocol compared to what currently exists in MQTTY and that she will most of the time compete with I mean, on the competition side, that I I don't know. I mean, it's a very hard question to to answer no. But we can discuss offline on that if you want. I don't have, a very good answer right now. Okay. No problem. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah. Thanks, David. Krista, you are still in the queue. You want to something, Okay. Alright. So, I mean, if there is no more comments, what I would what I was hoping for must to get, more reviews, more thorough reviews, because I don't expect huge changes on the document, but they could be, I mean, depending on the input of the reviews, of course, but, I would say that we are now in a more mature stage with this and that we should try to moving forward. So if anybody wants to volunteer, please ping me. Alright. Thank you very much. Thank you, Herman."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:04",
    "text": "And we're also right on time. And that's good. Tender. I'm talking about DNS over, co op, and I'm a team lenders. I just give a short introduction for those who don't know about, NS of a cooperative motivation is, of course, to encrypt, DNS, requests and responses and, Yeah. We decided to use DNS over co op because we have the encrypt and crypto communication based on DTS and Oscar. We also have block wise transfer to overcome a past MTU problem we have with DNS over DTS, and we are able to share system resource with corp applications. Which of course, which of course gives us, some resource advantages. Just a note, our research paper on this topic is published. You can read it in the proceedings of the ACM or networking. And I will present it in December atconnex. So if you want to read it, Please do. Since the last IETF, we didn't change much on the draft, we amended the introduction to have a short context contextualization of constrained environments, and also edit our research paper to the appendix. There is still some open discussion regarding service b records, there was a recommendation by Ben Schwartz to add a section on that how to bootstrap teams and as over the, DOC over service b records. But there is still some work needed because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "there is currently no ALPN record for DTS and also as no service fee description for Oscar. And I think Christian may also talk a little bit later about is that there's also in other areas some interest in service B records. So, we think that overall the, doc draft is not the right place for, this. So the question is, should we maybe start a draft on, this topic it. And the other open discussion was, question of cashable ought OSCO. There was some, feedback from Marco, that We talked a lot about cashability and Oscar in the draft, but we never actually referenced the Cashable Oscar draft, but this is now fixed because in the editor's copy on GitHub, the PR was emerged yesterday, to, on the topic. So given that we have one discussion topic where we think that it doesn't really belong into the draft and, one, discussion topic that is already resolved, our question is this can go into working group last call. Baumont has anybody implemented this? Ah, yeah. We have 2 implementations, a client implementation in Riot and, server implementation in place and k. And there any feedback from those implementers? And they're they're familiar with me. So, Yeah. Maybe, some more implementations would be helpful then for other people to look into the draft. Yep. So So is is there anybody in this room who would be interested in implementing this Okay. Would be good to hear soon from you so we can use that information in the working class call."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:04",
    "text": "And Could you move back to slide 7? Which one? 7 The previous one, 7 is this 1. Oh, Well, as the, yeah, okay, the just move this one. Yeah. Yeah. I I was discussing a little bit about this with, saying yesterday. Okay. This can be taken incrementally. In the interest of the document. So the the first step as the most reasonable one can be adding text, probably summarizing this current status that you have in this slide. And, yeah, ideally, have an informative reference to a new document that can be limited to a problem statement of of what would be needed to be worked down to to fill the gaps n, n, if this is going to work as good enough, that would be it. If if more requests come to be yeah, to develop something more in the direction. Well, we do that, if we ask for Yeah. Other the cell didn't understand the last part, actually, even though you're still trying to keep beside me. So let's not do, more than anything that is sufficient to hopefully, how many possible objection or question if they come we can take some step more, but Yeah. Yeah. Giving this external problem statement, to be referred here informatively. Is probably good enough at this stage Okay. And and for what is worth, I think is something that can even be addressed the process of working group plus call whenever it happens, Okay. Then Yeah. Maybe I we sit together with Christian and talk about this problem statement. Okay. Any other questions? Or comments? Okay. Then thank you. Thank you. Also, we're being so efficient"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:06",
    "text": "So next is, recur presenting remotely and I can actually try to give you control of this last record. Sounds good. You should have it now. You should be in control. Yep. Looks good. Looks like I have control. Thank you. Yes. So, hello, everyone. Today, I will be presenting updates on this draft key updates for all score. Which is about the a key update solution for Oscar as the name applies. So just to recap, this draft originally, it had 3 pouch. As you can see, we split out the middle part which was more details on he usage limits and based on previous discussions, this now lives in a separate document. The IETF, Coral's cookie limits. So the two remaining purchase defining the key updates solution. And what is this about? Well, it's about renewing the master's seat and master's hold and thus deriving new sender recipient piece. And, yeah, it's loosely inspired from all score appendix p2. And, We have some benefits here. One is we can achieve for for secrecy. And secondly, we have no change in the ID context parameter. That Oscar uses. And then the second part is, we also have a a method in this draft finding how you can perform updates of the o score send the recipient IDs and this can be good, for privacy reasons in certain situations. Here's, you can see an overview. So, essentially, the the kudos to keep up the procedures based on an exchange of nonsense. And these nonsense are placed in new fields in the Oscar corp option, which we have extended."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "Then we also have this update CTX function that practically performs the the update of the master secret and master salt based on the nonsense and, additional input material. And and and if you see here in the bottom left, how we updated the Oscar option you can see that we extended it with an Xbyte that contains some signaling flags and length of the nuns, and following the expite, we have a a field, actually hold the nuns and in this latest version, and I will come back to this. We also extended this further to define a old NAMS field and an associated y byte that defines the length that old down field. And this is because in certain messages, we need transport to Nances. And then they need to be actually placed in separate fields so that we can will tell the report and and extract them independently from each other. So to go over some updates from, ITF117. One thing that we did now is that we have mandated support for both both the 401 and reverse message flow So, essentially, the cool procedure. Either the client can take the initiative to start it. That's the forward message flow. Or the server side can take the initiative to start it starting with an actual response message. That's the reverse message flow. So we now mandate that peers must support those boat flows. And this is basically to avoid risk of deadlock situations, where if they support a different flows, they will be incompatible with the churn. We also clarified the definition of a kudos message. And it will send this exactly accurate before. But, basically, if the the flag bit is set. That is the signal that indicates that this is, that this is Curiel's message."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "We also update it in the draft. Also, I have a lease of, like, existing methods for picking up internal score. And we now added also the ad hocinoscore profile of Ace ASAP. Possible method for, the key, the key, Some folder updates. So kudos can be run-in 2 modes. One mode ensuring forward secrecy. And also a no follow-up decrease in model that is meant for very constrained devices. That are unable to store, information on the on volatile memory. And we also defined 2 classes of devices capable devices. Can store information in nonvolatile memory and non capable devices, which cannot store information on non volatile memory. So, basically, what we did here is also again to avoid dead load. Situations. We now say that If a device is capable, meaning it can store information, involve, nonvolatile memory. Well, well, well, it definitely should support the 407 mode, but in addition, it must also support the no node. And, again, this is to prove to avoid any kind of risk mismatch. Or then looks. We elaborated a bit more on the mode select shown because when kudos is executed, we have a signaling beat in the X byte that indicates whether the mode that this particular payer wishes to run kudos in. And we've added some additional criteria. For how to proceed to different values, meaning the peers are wishing to run kudos in in different modes. Then they can retry and reattempt to run through those. So for instance, if if one only supports a no for asynchronous mode, and the initiator wants to run for a seekers node if that initial execution fails, Well, then the the initiate to retry again in the that forward will see if your signal We also now explicitly for bid using all key material after reboot."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "This is just to make it very clear that if you reboot you must pro form a CUDA's execution before commencing all score communication, and this is to avoid nonsense and key issues. An exception if you have some means to do this safely, such as the score appendix b 1 procedure, which is based on saving your latest Sender's sequence number. Yeah, so this coming back to the update to the Oscar option, to allow transporting the n one nance in the reverse flow we have extended the Oscar option to have this white field and the old dance eat them and essentially the reason for this is that in the reverse flow, in the second request we need to include the the non one such that the receiver of this can retrieve the correct CUDA's execution And the way we had it, we just concatenated N1 and N2 in the Nonsville we realized that's not sufficient because it leaves room for ambiguity and especially when the non slang stiffer really need this in separate fields so they can extract the separate values. So to come into some open points, one open point that was raised, in the mail from Christian originally. It was suggested that we may want to have, allowance for a more flexible message flow. So the way we have things now is the forward flow, We have a clueless request followed by a clueless response. In the reverse flow, we had a we have a CUDA's response followed by CUDA's request. So the solution is always based on, like, pairs of requests and responses in a sense. Now the question becomes that really necessary, or can we allow for a even more, flexible ways of running kudos. So Christian proposed scenario based on the resource directory. Where you can see that message 1 goes from the endpoint to the resource directory, and that's a a corporate request"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:03",
    "text": "And then the second message is from the resource directly to the endpoint. Which is also a corporate request. So why couldn't it be possible also run through those based on using 2 requests and not the request response pair. Technically, there shouldn't be anything that that's stopping that. And there can also be other scenarios possible. For instance, second CUDA's message can be a response to a different request than the first kudos message. So you don't have a request response maybe you have a request. And then you have a a notification and related notification coming back. And that will act as a sacred kudos message. So we're kind of decoupling the idea of kudos from these strict request response pairing and making it more flexible. So this was a suggestion that was brought up. And, yeah, we're very open to any feedback on that or or thoughts if that's a a good direction to take. Yeah. I go to the next phone. So, Another related point was can we make through those method. Yes. Yes. Speed. Regular application messages. And what do I mean by that? Well, currently the waitings are defined is that kudos messages are a special types of messages. Meaning, meaning, a client wishes to initiate kudos, request that it sends is to a special resource well along kudos resource. And without any payload, But the question becomes when why can't if the client is wanting to send a request to the server. To retrieve the our resource representation. Why can't that request then also at the same time, serve a securities message? Meaning that The client initiates kudos with a normal application message. When it wants to already send a a request to the server."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "Now, of course, it doesn't stop like, if the client at that point doesn't want to send the request to the server, it can still, make itself send the request just to to execute kudos. But if it's either way, already wants to do a request to resource at the server. This might also then solve and so what are implications of this? Well, first of all, it means that, a CUDA's request message can target any resource at the server. Doesn't have to go to well known kudos. And it also means that in the folder message flow, the client would send the application message that it's currently wants to send and make that a kudos message. Now the caveat on this is that The server cannot be sure that this request is fresh, So then it may want to respond with the 4, tier 1. And but the thing is that this can in turn signal to the client to rerun kudos. So you have this issue with freshness, but that's really the same issue as you would otherwise have And sorry. I'm getting some echo from the room. Know if you can mute someone there. Okay? So this was also another open point we have. And, again, we're we're welcome to any feedback or comments on this. Kristen, I'm just I just like to briefly point out that implement you mentioned b the appendix p 1 before, implementations that do be 1 already have kind of already have to understand the situation of a request possibly not being fresh and like dealing with that situation. So I think that's already well understood in those car in Oscar. Yeah. Right. That's exactly, like, it that's should all already be possible to solve with, like, mechanisms already existing prosper and core."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "Escobar? Yeah. Hello, Skodak, the question, so if you wanna combine this thing like a CUDA's message and an application message, maybe to consider if that's worth the effort is thinking about how often does this kudos message need to be sent. So don't know if it's only the rekeying. It's only once every, Yeah. I don't know, every month or so, then it might not be worth the trouble to to try to piggyback then into application messages, because it can give a lots of complexity as well, I think Yeah. I mean, the the the frequency will depend, let's pause on, policies or or that particular setup. Sure, it it will do it may add some complexity. On the other hand, it may be nice to merch these concepts together in the San that the the CUDA's processing can really happened before the actual remainder of the message is forwarded to the resource. But, yeah, this is on a possible way. Yeah. If you can really separate it, then it maybe becomes easy. But if there's some Corning cases there, then I would say, okay. Don't don't go there. Just keep it this simple because we don't want code for corner cases in constrained devices. Of course. Yeah. Thanks for the feedback. Yeah. So I move on. Another point that was opened was the point about, using non random nouns So the way we have things raised now, we always speak about the nonsense random values but it was pointed out that in some scenarios, using counters, may actually make sense. And this is the case where you have a capable device, which is can actually persist the context over reboots"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "And thus, it can also persist the counter or reboots. And, of course, the important thing is that the counter values never use so the well, the question is should also allow explicitly allowing the text using counters as nonsense. Currently, we don't really forbid the explicitly or allow it for exposity, although we have this language about saying random analysis. I mean, taking those grades properly as example, there, they use, what the state there is that use of a 64 bit long random numbers and nonvalue recommended. So our proposed solution here would be that what we can say is that non capable devices, which unable to store the counter value to this to this and persisted. They must use random values for analysis. When it comes to capable devices, they should use random values. But they may use counters if they can enforce measure to ensure your freshness, and also accept the privacy implications because there are some privacy implications of using, counters and stuff. So it would allow it, but we still say that you should use random values. So, yeah, and it and it also feedback on leases. Also welcome. Yeah. Let me move it to the the last point. So this is about the, like I mentioned before, the draft really contains I would say 2 separate topics. One is about CUs itself, and the other is a method for updating those core sender recipient ID. Which is contained in section 5 and appendix 8. And overall, these span around 16 pages of the document. So And this IDFID procedure is really a a stand alone the role that you can integrate it with kudos. So where is this in the past? The question is, Should we split out this section about those criteria update to a separate working group document?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:03",
    "text": "This was raised in the past without any strong consensus to proceed forward with that. The benefit would be that it can focus its document more specifically on kudos So we wanted to raise this again to get the feeling from the group, if we should go ahead or if we should hold off hold off with doing this, basically. I see some comments in the chat there, Yeah. But Karsen, I think you still wanted to form an opinion exactly on this point. Do you have an opinion now? Well, Splitting a document is inexpensive. So, if if it has a benefit, we should do it. I wonder What what what is that creature that actually only has has to read one of the two documents in the end. It's not At least I could barely hear you. We really need to hit the mic. I'm afraid. Yes. So I I I'm still hunting for the creature that actually only reads has to read 1 of the 2. Then it would be worth splitting it. Rickard, please take it Yeah. So you're saying basically that why would you, like, if you're interested in ID updates, you were to go be interested in the the kudos procedure. I suppose if you have if you're using some other mechanism for key updates, or your, maybe you you're you're using Outlook or something like that. You may only be it in the ID update procedure. In isolation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "there's the orange in the queue. Hello? Can you hear me? Yes. Sorry. I got got little bit of a cold. 2, I think we're I think the argument didn't make sense about, people with the probably read both, documents, but think the document. CUDA is now growing a little bit the big And and that might be a reason why we actually want to get the pages down. Sorry, Yaron. Please try to speak closer to the mic. I'm glad to hear you. Can you hear me now? A bit better. Okay. I'm as close as I can. I think I can speak louder. So I was just saying that think I think we should split out c the Oscar IDs, if not for the the reason that Kudos is already, kind of a large document and we'd like to reduce it as much as possible And, this is a separate function that doesn't have to be in this document. That's my proposal. Was it loud, like, enough? Yeah. Here, I can hear you very well, actually. Online, there's no problem. Okay. I'll write in the chat instead. But, yeah, that would be a benefit, I suppose, that as you mentioned that, okay, it reduces the complexity of kudos that's like a side benefit that CUDA itself, the CUDA's document becomes shorter. Nor focused instance. Well, let me wrap it up. So as for summer and next steps, well, we will address these open points that were brought up today. We also plan to start an implementation and otherwise just proceed with the, work on open issues and all our issues we have are are least the seizures on on the GitHub repository of the draft. Again, yeah, in the comments, more feedback or very welcome."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:03",
    "text": "So, yeah, thank you. Thank you, Rickard. Anymore comments or questions, anyone? Okay. Thanks again. Then the next in line is, zip it. It caught performance measurement. Soon. Okay. It works. Okay. Hello, everybody. This is an update about the co op performance measurement option. This is the the 1 version and, the draft has been adopted a few months ago. I am presenting on behalf of the quarters that you can see listed in the slides. Yeah, what is the motivation? So, we propose this work to find a new American is to measure the performance in corp. Since it is resource consuming to make performance measurement in constrained environment. We need straightforward methodologies, NIPPM, they're, we are working on explicit flow measurement techniques that employ few marking bids inside the header of each packet for loss and delay measurements. These are described in RFC, 9506 that has been just published few weeks ago, so This is the last the the news. I just want to describe few of these bit methodology. Maybe some of you, already knows there because our optional in quick protocol"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "like the spin beat idea that, it tends to create a square wave signal on the data flow, causing a bit was aligned this equal to the round trip time. In this way, you can measure easily the round trip time with a very simple algorithm, and it is optional and quick is explained in the RFC 9000 and RFC 93. 12, while the square bit create a square waves as defined in ERC 9341. That can be used for packet loss measurement. So both methodology are proposed at standard. So are stable methodology. That's why I want to highlight this point. Basically, this draft proposed a new option for co op to carrying these bits spin beta square bit, We problem. The the option value can be defined with the following beats, so square beats, time beat, or a combined between these two beads or Since we have space, we can also use event bits we can also introduce new patterns according to the methods of RFC 9506. I want to clarify that for now, we have made a proposal about option, but we are working on an implementation. So in order to compare the different combinations And according to the result, we aim to decide which option we can standardized together with the working group. So hopefully for the next interim or session, we can have some, implementation results that we can share with you. Regarding the application scenarios, we explain different cases, the non proxy and points, or collaborating endpoints or non collaborating proxy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "in case of non proxies, endpoints. This is the simple case. So we have just client server with or probe in the middle, and the option can be applied and to end. And, it allow end to end measurement or on path measurement on the probe. And, on path intra domain if you are more than one probe, for example. In case of collaborating proxies, so it means that the proxy are allowed to handle the option the option can be applied end to end between client server or between the collaborating proxies. In this case, you can make measurement between client server that you proxies proxy on server, or on path if you have probe in the middle. In case of non collaborating proxies, of course things became a little bit, difficult because the since the option is defined as proxy and safe. If there are non collaborating and caching proxy, the measurement is not possible, but we explain. So this point can also be further discussed maybe later, during the progress of the document, but for now, we state that an implementation may consider the option as a safe forward if the proxies are non cashing, In this case, the measurement is still possible. Of course, end to end our own path between the client and server. Again, the the proxies need to be non collaborating, but non caching. So the it's important that we have known caching proxies. The draft also explain what happens in case of DTLS and the score. The"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "Of course, when a client use a collaborating process proxies using DTL as kit can be still measurement, but a non pratt probe cannot perform the measurement, of course. In case of a score, the endpoints, send both outer and inner option. The inner is for measure can be used for measuring, for example, the connection. To the end to end here while the outer option can be used for measuring the connection to the next proxy. This is just to explain the possible scenarios. What are the next steps? As I said, we are working on an implementation. So we hope to have some results and some I think what is can be more thing is to have some comparative result between the different beats combination and so on. It is based on well known methodologies, apply in SPMbitandsquarebit, Also, let's say the the base document that describe the methodologies been just published. So it's also let's say, quite stable, we we can say. So we are looking forward to share much more information about implementation. So and If you are also interested to implement, we are open to discuss. So welcome question and come. Thank Okay, Roncutta. I have maybe a stupid question, but why don't you encode this in the message ID or the token value you have a bit and the source can choose the value it sent in the token or message ID. I'm you can make, this bit factoring in, in this information. Yeah. We believe that the option maybe is better because you cannot touch to each packet So and You can do the same with through token. I don't know. Okay. Yeah. We've No. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "Now, I don't know. We we can consider. So, we we just considered the flexibility of co op to have an option, And since the option can be attached to each packet, so we believe. And and since this methodology needs information for each packet. So because we are we are monitoring each packet. So to And the square wave is covering all the flows. So that's why we we believe that it may be a good choice, but Kastum Woman. Yeah. I think the discussion about the unsafe bit is one possible answer so the the marking the option as unsafe makes sure that you don't measure something you can Mhmm. Yeah. This is also true. Yeah. Looks like Kristin has a comment. Just just just coming back to the message ID and token, Yes. You don't have control full control over the message ID of each but then again, you can also not attach an option to each, co op message that has been sensitive. Being sent. As soon as there are, as there are empty acknowledgements in there, you cannot accept add an option there. Just so that you kind of keep track of that. Okay. No. Yeah. I just have a few suggestions for for the document. There's a section where you discuss the the beats in in detail. Their computation. And about the big see you say that it it's the logical combination of QMS Yeah. But then you describe how to compute it, taking as input q andd. Where d is not using this document Yeah. Because it's defined in other documents."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "But to to make these documents self contained in the how to compute Okay. I will describe you, sorry, see, from QNS. As limits. In this document, at least it's self contained and one doesn't necessarily need to to get to that other document. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. And then it'll be good to have, examples even as Avapendix, of the different application scenarios with a few, messages exchange showing how the bits change and what kind of measurement you produce In the same spirit of those examples, we're, drawing on the on the notes at some Okay. meeting, a few times ago, it's Christian to decide about the to set about the option nature actually was still And then I have a question. On, how much EBITDA all this is applicable to group communication. I suspect it has the same limitation on sporadic traffic and observe. Where it doesn't really work because you you really need need, a a constant sequence of request response pair So multiple responses are, a disturbance here, like in the case of observe So please think about that. If that's the case, maybe it's for some considerations in the same lines of public case for observance, public traffic, Yeah. For for the first point, of course, I will revise to the text to to align the description and to make the documents self contain, of course, regarding, your question on group communication, I also not I'm not sure if all the bits can work. Maybe some, for example, the marking bits may work, but that that's why we we, I'm regarding also the appendix, maybe with some example of message exchange, maybe since we will work on implementation and so I think that will help to have good result answer this question. If it works with group communication and also if we can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:03",
    "text": "add much more detail about implementation and the message exchange So this will because we can re let's say touch really coop environment, coop situation and, Yeah. I hope we can have some result for an interim or for Brisbane, so to share. Looking forward. Okay. Thank you. And again, if, someone is also interesting the implementation, we are happy to further discuss and Thank you. K. Next one is Kristin with to use lots back to back that he may want to combine. Yep. Hello. Just, just just on on on these two slots, if it turns out that this takes longer than Greece, then So be it, I think this is the higher, higher priority topic so we've had a thing to think research group, meeting on Friday. And the co op topics kind of all spiraled around naming things, which is known to be one of the 3 health problems in Anati. So this has a few bits of, like, the the the core of the presentation will be focused on transport indication because this is where a lot of the naming happens, where the use cases come from Cobo or GAT from from the, draft on on your co op. And they also interact with the reverse proxy setup that we do in in resource directory extensions. I'd like to start with a bit of history, which I usually kind of Try to avoid, but I think in this case, it is relevant. The origin of of some of the naming discussions, some might say the original sin, but I would say no because it's like it's It was the best thing we could do at that time."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:04",
    "text": "Was the introduction of the of the scheme of the protocol in the scheme in RCA 2, 8323, which was controversial back at the time, but Yep. It it it it was the best we could do with the tools we had back then. So from that, in in parallel with the with what became 8323. There was, there was work on how do we negotiate which protocols we use which, somehow kind of got got stalled. But the gist there was still that we use COOP plus something for everything that comes up later. And things are coming up later. So, Slipmax, which is coopoverviewart, has been expired for some time, but it's still a valuable example of how this could be done. And I hope that it would be revived. I co borrower get is, document that I've presented occasionally in this working group, and that so far specifies codepluscatcolon// And while cope over SMS has expired, it is as a one of the one of the kind of cases where it's described as code plus something colon slash slash, etcetera. To to clean this up and also to to have something that we can present to the larger IETF onto how we deal with the confusion that comes out of the plus. The protocol negotiation efforts were rebooted as transport indication, and in the current state, and I hope also the future state because I'm convinced that this is the way to go. Rely on indicator on links between the the resources and the proxies that you could use to access them. And the proxy kind of in in its transport in in its URI also includes how with which protocol you actually get there. There are a few more documents, like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "2 related documents, actually, that I'm working on that also deal with names more on the side of cryptographic identifiers, those do not explicitly indicate the protocols so far, and that is part of what led to the led to the to the discussion than the meeting on Friday. Now the way it looks like here is, like, might indicate that things completely changed they don't they didn't procedurally but I think on the way we choose to name our things. We've made a bit of progress because looked into why do we need to indicate something more? And we where this comes from is not lacking information in but it's really lacking information in the in the literals when we write down an address that doesn't have a name associated with it, but just an IP address. Because because do get the IP address. We do get the port. We do not get the information of what is in between, like, what kind of port is the is this even? It's like as if we were just past binary data without an indication of of what to do with it. And with most protocols that works, but with the as soon as a pro as there are start being different transports for protocol. That, that works work for either this this is becoming ambiguous. So the choice then was to just clarify this in the scheme. But for all the other for the all the other use cases we've seen so far, they're at least their literal forms. They can be unambiguous. So when you when, for example, when you encode a phone number, there is a way of including phone numbers in a way that is compatible with the naming scheme that we have across that that we usually use in authorities this is the dot opinecoding, which kind of might not look look super nice, but it is practical and it is in use. For BLE, for ble, the the literal, the choice of literal syntax that I was suggesting for corp plus BLE works just as well if there's just two up on the start."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "And the same goes for, slip mugs and any possible, say, cope over USB. The the identifier is in that case locally significant. So it doesn't even need to be fully fully, fully registered, but it needs to be significant for the local system. You transport that identifier out of the local system, you get the same, a weird situation as if you, send the coopcolon//localhouse somewhere around. So taking from from from those cases, I think that the tyrion where we did need a co op plus food. Is that if the way we encode those the literal add, the literal addresses in a URI, gives insufficient information to make decision on the protocol, only then we need this plus. So all the other cases that we've had we're having could easily do without that. So, yeah, that's so this doesn't transport indication. Right? So we can still the mechanism for indicating that there is another transport available with still be the same. It would still be pointing to some other literal or some some some other name that would then be resolved. But it doesn't need to the the recommendation doesn't need to be that we stick with the path that we've had with core plus DCP. I was skipping over the aliasing unless someone brings it up. Yep. I'm not sure that is is not cuff. Cuff. Literals are just part of systems. So DNS, as I mentioned before, like, DNS is not DNS is not the culprit here. DNS gives us everything we can expect from the we we we we we do get an address. But in the URI, the information is missing. If we were to do, DNS with any other of those data protocols, say someone wanted to use DNS to distribute information about how they find their BLE devices in, say, tie dye, which is also an I recommend you could have a look at."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:02",
    "text": "Then those names would just need to be encoded in a form those literals would just need to be transported in a form that is sufficient. And for BLE, that that would work given the mechanisms that yearly needs to go through anyway as soon as a connection is established. And when there are other yeah. So this this works for DNS, this works for, for for discovery mechanisms such as we have in in resource directory lookup. If there's a proxy indicated, that proxy, if if that proxy is indicating a literal address, Yep. That either the scheme Either the literal address is sufficient, then it doesn't need to be indicated in this scheme. And if on on those transports where it is insufficient we do have the schemes in there. We could, of course, have done things differently, and I think that the work on, SVC service service. Sorry. I can't expand the acronym right now as SVCB records. Shows how this would be done but we do have the schemes for coop plus TCP, and I think that with any future protocols, we could just avoid the situation altogether, And on those where we cannot SVCP records will be a good way to transport this information. If it is, transported, through DNS. Yeah. So, that was way quicker than expected. I hope that there will be questions to make up for it. I think that's a good way forward. I'd like to update, core interfaces, to do this and then update corporate or get, and then ask customs to update our slip max. Yeah. Shall we do that?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "Oh, I didn't press the thing. Sorry. Gaston Bowman. Yes, And, I'm not sure we should mention this. Already, but, had this, weird weird idea of using the PV future syntax of RC39. 86, the UI standard, 4 service binding, SBCB, Dutris? Yep. Yep. That so, if it turns out that any of the future transports that we might do or even the ones that we already have, and and we want to go with SVP a bit more. If if if if any transport has SVCB records that can be used here, that's a gap in the in the things that we can put in a URI. We can we can put the name in there. can book put the IP address that this eventually reserves down to n but we can't put the most valuable thing that we get out of that resolution step in as we We we we can put that stuff or a subset of that stuff in there, which is telling the transport and telling any any other deviations. I'm Like, we can't tell the port in a different place, but we can't tell other fields in the other SVP attributes. But that would be the really more more practical thing to pass around in a URI instead of an IP address. So That's an option. I don't think it's urgent because We have core plus TCP already for TCP. We don't have any protocols, any transports in the queue. That would need this, but as soon as someone starts to do COB over a quick for more than a research paper that's probably the way where it would wind up in DNS. And At latest, then we would need to express that in some less name, more literal form as well. And Yep. I think that doing it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:03",
    "text": "in an ipvfutureorsum.rapper form in a way that it can be embedded in an, the authority component would make a lot of that sense and I'll just I'll probably explore probably explore a bit of that. That was a comment in the chat from, Joran, dot alt seems open for anyone to use and is in this risk of overlapping. Yes. Out is completely free for all. Which is why I only suggested this for the, for the locally significant ones. Because, like, it's a locally significant identifier. The system needs to know what kind of what it can do or cannot do. I don't think that's an option for dotdeletedapa or for the for the SMS thing, which already sits on under the app dot app. So it's not Thank anywhere. But given that, USB or, a serial address must not escape the local system anyway local system would be responsible for not dealing out identifiers that collide. But, yes, I'm I'm more leaning towards to specifying something under.arper which would also queue off any consumers of that URI that this is a locally significant identifier, and please treated as you would treat, a local host or any pilateral that has its own identifier. Thanks, some more comments. I think the criteria is very clear. On one on what to do with that exact in terms of strictness. I think some slight thought in terms of not recommending why the final one, I think was really oriented for forbidding, as as long as the schema with the cost syntax exists, Can it be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "use the one wants to even if not necessary. I don't have a clear answer there yet. Especially because eventually the decision on whether or not, I mean, on the this is probably about a a document that defines in new co op transport will probably be a standards track IETF document. And such a document needs to convince the larger IETF community And, what the that it is justified to use a new scheme here. And I think the transport in Sorry, transport indication, not interfaces. Transport indication will be at most giving guidance here anyway. And eventually the decisions up to the IETF community So whether that is guidance to authors or guidance to the IETF community, I Chantalia. And just to point that this slide 6, I believe this is an example of where in this case, you still need the plus syntax. Yep. In in in this case, we'd be plus syntax because on on co on co borrower TCP we do have the scheme already introduced. And the way to get rid of the plus here would be to say that, hey, with over TCP, we can also use SBCB records and put the literal in there. And then we could would get rid of it, but that would be a kind of major change in the ecosystem for no benefit other than to fix something that we did back then without the without perfect foresight. And I think I have the dates somewhere around here. Corporate TCP was published after the first, very first draft of of what eventually became SBCB but it was also approved before that. So it's like Yeah. We we couldn't we we we couldn't have anticipated that back then. I. Least hope."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:01",
    "text": "Yes, an example, a very short question. So do you think that I mean, looks pretty nice and all that. But if peep, if we go ahead with this, in the future protocols wouldn't they also need, in addition, like, the plus syntax just for legacy stories and, you know, for system what do you mean by new protocols? Do you mean new transports or implement sir. Yes. Yep. New transport. So the the new transports would not need, to have also a plus variation because, any old client cannot do anything with the, URI that contains the plus that the plus plus new protocol anyway and can just hand it off in an opaque fashion to proxy that perhaps it get on, it can just as well do the same with a co your eye that has some name that it can resolve. Or some IPV future of the toilet can't resolve. So it's the same situation. That we don't need to introduce CoA Plus, quick, for example, if we were to do quob or a quick Okay. So and the but the new clients, they need to support the old and the new. Yeah. So, there is there is I don't which is why I don't proposed to change, anything for for cope cope over TCP. So for cope over TCP, we what's what's what's what's what's keep using this because it's already there. It works. We could start sending out SCCP record for for TCP, but I'm not sure, like, I I don't see much of the point given that that scheme is already registered. I mean, I really like this and, you know, I, I would really love do not have all these pluses. But but just the point that I what I wanted to understand is if know, it how the the the the the the evolution will need to keep this coexistence working. Yeah. The the the the coexistence path that I'll think there is for web over TCP web sockets, t TLS and WebSockets with TLS"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "do what we've always done and for everything new, to the other thing. Thank you. Any more comments, questions. No. Okay. If you want to, that's time. 1st. The last week of the week, So let's go for it. How are you on time? Just for Okay. So that's just a brief update for something that I presented during interims, and that still has the core name in it. Because back when I started it, it was unclear what the lake would would be recharted. So lake has been rechartered and can now take should work on Lake. So Yep. Put up, Basically, I think that ad hoc needs a few extensions that just make sure that will keep working when extensions are present even though implementations expect that kind of were built in an ecosystem where they didn't see those in those extensions ever. This has worked well for TCP. Sorry, for for TLS. There, this was called Greece, and I've just taken the name and now we're not putting Greece to TLS, which was the kind of the image, like, you have a mechanism and it it rushed shut if you don't if you don't actuate it or at least grease it regularly, So the document, Fox, please. The the thank you. The document introduces a few options to ad hoc that are actually no options, but the way they're used and the way ad hoc works will ensure that if they are present and the middle box starts tries to strip them, things will just break apart, and then it gets noticed that something is wrong. Yep. A few caveats apply, but I think they are best treated in the late working group. So if you're interested in this and want to follow-up, in the future."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:04",
    "text": "Please look over lake lake. It's not adopting kind of has not adopted it yet thought to adoption call, but the rough feedback I got was positive. So I think this is going down. Thank you. And Christian. Looks like no comments on this anyway. So we have still 6 more minutes, but not more to your agendas. First, I understand. Yep. So we may wrap up the meeting here So thank you. Ask or something to say. Yeah. Since we have some time. So there was this one topic that came into mind. So in the animal working group here, talking now a lot about discovery. So could be DNS SD based or go up a link format based or go up link format plus resource directory based, and there's grasp as well. Other discovery protocol. Ever since wondering, a while ago, we had these efforts about also making and sort of update to link formats and liking coding it in, seabor I'm just wondering is is that on someone's mind still? I think there are all drafts. Lying around, Yeah. Because then I'm just that's on my table. So that so the so coral is setting out to be a single based format that will be useful in the situations where you would previously use link format without some of the quirks. The the the The meetings on that topic have of the development of that topic has mainly focused on getting CRI's done first. Because CRIs, like, CRIs will be all over the place in this thing. And at the same point, this is also depending a lot on Peck T board because that would be the the mechanism which keeps it small even though it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:03",
    "text": "actually lagging around string ish or URI ish identifiers all over the place. So those are the two things that are now converging and will free me up to do, some more on coral also, when I'm resurfacing from parental leave, Okay. Thanks. That's clarifies it. So, I love it to keep in, keep in mind, so when for that work. Thanks. Thank you. Anything more. Okay. That we can really close the meeting and gain from us back, Thanks a lot for being here in your time. Thanks to the minute takers. More in general, thanks a lot for your work and contribution. See you online, short term in the meeting, less than the interim meetings Thank you all. Okay. If Hey. Just to take it away because"
  }
]
