[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:14",
    "text": "i can try to figure out what to do if you need some help i'm sitting here okay yes so for the moment we are controlling the slides okay so if yeah okay so if you agree let's maybe start okay hello so uh welcome to the meeting of the six low working group uh if we can see the previous slide okay thank you so my name is carlos gomez yeah the chair is srita bandari our responsible ali is eric klein who is also today sitting at the table thank you eric and we have made a takers dominique has volunteered so thank you very much dominique once again for helping taking minutes is there perhaps anyone else who would like to volunteer to take minutes yes okay someone said something in the room do we have a volunteer okay anyway recall that we are taking minutes by using hedge dock so this is a collaborative process and everyone is welcome to join and contribute to the process of taking minutes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "and thank you in advance and also we might need a jabber or perhaps today a zulip scribe as well so if anyone would like to volunteer please let us know okay and also on the agenda you can find a couple of pointers one is the link to the online agenda and the other one is the link to the hedge doc that we are using today for taking minutes so next please so this is the second itf meeting that has an in-person component since the start of the copied endemic so there are a few meeting tips to keep in mind so basically they are the same as for the last itf for in-person participants please make sure to sign into the session by using meet echo for example you may use the on-site tool which is available from the data tracker agenda and the very important point is that actually we're going to use miteco to manage the cube so if you want to join the queue please do that through miteco as there is a single unified q handle in this way and also blue sheets are automatically generated from miteco so please if you are in the room uh please make sure that you join me technically and for remote participants just keep in mind that you need to keep your audio video off unless you are presenting next please so this is the notewell this is a reminder of idf policies on various important topics just patents code of conduct and so on so if you are not familiar with it please make sure that you have read it next please and this is the agenda proposed for today so the first presentation is the usual chess introduction that's currently in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "progress this will be followed by a presentation on the status update of the six low use cases draft by young [Music] that will be followed by the presentation on the nd multicast address listener registration draft by pascal and a discussion on the next steps for the draft then the next will be the presentation on the transmission of chip compressed packets over 15.4 networks and this will be followed by a set of two presentations that focus on the native short address scheme the first one is the presentation on the base document and the second one is a companion document focusing on reliability considerations that is presented for the first time both will be given by rudy yandone so as you can see the total schedule time is 60 minutes so we have a packed agenda also we would like to kindly ask request the presenters to try to stick to the allocated time and well is there any comment any question on the agenda okay so if there are no comments then yeah let's proceed to the report of the working group document status so the first document that we have on the table is again the ipv6 over nfc draft which as you may recall was evaluated by the asg then it was updated after that and now it has been stuck for two years now so perhaps uh eric if you can uh let us know about details about the next steps any plans for that yeah this is this is my fault i have not been able to prioritize this but uh but i know that i need to i had some discussion with lars i think and some others and i think we can just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "we can demonstrate that everybody who had access to this who needed to have access to the spec uh had access to it and also that those that did not it's not terribly different from other wireless standards and certainly not from an ipv6 interface definition so i think there's a small there's some clarifying text to the security considerations we might we might make uh and uh probably the right thing to do is to maybe bring it back to the isg thank you so uh one clarifying question uh regarding the point of anyone uh who might like to have access to the specification does it mean that if any folks approach the authors who i understand at least then they have a copy of the specification uh is that enough or should there be some sort of announcement or wider broadcast of uh how to access the specification i think the former is probably enough i think um uh i i don't think it's uh terribly contentious enough or so terribly uh there's enough uh interest to warrant uh worrying about spreading the information and i also don't want to violate any sort of the nfc sdo their their standard distribution uh orders yeah or recommendations so okay uh for those who feel it's necessary for review they should be able to review the essential components i feel that's fair okay thank you so the next document is ipv6 over plc uh you may recall that uh all the discussed ballots have been cleared the authors updated the draft after that incorporating the last remaining set of comments as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "so however if i understand it correctly eric there has been some changes in isg membership so new isg members need to provide also some ballots right that's correct we lost some ballot positions during the changeover and i failed to advance it prior to that and so i've sent email uh to their remaining uh and to the to the new into the uh to those with no record ballot to ask uh if we could get uh two more reviews i think we only need two more at this point and then uh or two more no objection or yes ballots uh there are discuss points we'll have to take care of that but i think we've already dealt with uh difficult discussion issues so i'm i'm not anticipating any particular difficulty if we get to our uh so i'm beating the bushes trying to get two more reviews and after that we can send it off to the rfc editor great thank you then the next one is six low use cases draft it has been evaluated by the security area directorate and the general area and it has been updated as a result and there will be a presentation later today on this draft and uh well perhaps i don't know the next step maybe but after that it will be ready for telechat um anyway yeah eric yes i think i passed last call i just need to issue the ballot and bring it to telechat which i should be able to do by the end of august great thank you and finally the multicast address listener registration document has been updated several times since the last atf uh thanks to michael richardson and rahul yan have for reviewing the draft thanks a lot and also there has been an update after an ayanna review so this will be presented and discussed later today so any other point any comment okay so if there are no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "questions then we can proceed to the next presentation on the use cases draft okay nice to meet you uh my name is hong i'll present the sixth row of ability and the use case document next page please okay thank you yes this is history and status of 2018 the first vocabulary score and the second working group last call was 2720 october and this year february ed submitted to isg and this is the certain revision okay please yeah so after our last meeting we got two a comment from security director robert spark and the other is to peter e or general art i sincerely thanks to to uh robert sparks and peter e uh the comment from the robert sparky us uh has he said he has some issue so i'll talk about in more detail and document from peterby uh he said already with the issue so he is his comment was uh mainly for the minor issue okay let's space please okay i talked about the comment from robot spark the first one is the security consideration originally this document is the usual document so if you see the section 7 security"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "construction there is all two sentences security construction are not directly applicable to the document for the use cases the security requirement describes in the protocol section of line but he says that the text of this draft has several plays that rightly call out like the implication of privacy privileges to become a shared issue and assumption is that l2 security must be present so he recommends to add a word on sentence for the security construction so uh if you see the the blue box i add the newly added that is the six row stack use the ipv6 address model and it is required to consider the implication for privacy with l2 address drive ipv6 addresses in a typical six row use cases with the operator of secure data it is also required to provide secure data transmission even though the six-row stack do not address curate at the network layer it is required to provide l2 level security and the application level security is highly desirable but after a submission of this division of document i got a response from robert spark but he does not satisfy so i need to enhance more in the next revision okay next page please yeah and another is also security so if you thought uh table two or there are some the law for which is regarding to security requirement for because which g-wave period security msdp and nfc and plc but he suggests that on content is not clear so i think that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "it is better to remove the role itself so in the update revision i treated this part next page please yeah uh the third comment from robert spark is that uh appendix a uh in previous revision there is appendix a it is the design space dimension for sixth row deployment on kuju next space please yeah in appendix a on design speed dimension for six rupee deployment there are some descriptions of deployment photo strapping topology l2 mesh wireless remesh multilingual survey data radar blah blah blah so this is not directly related to uh sixth row while sixth row open technology but it is helpful to understand and help people to design for the network so yes uh could you back to one page please oh sorry a back one yeah so he says that appendix a is neither introduced nor reference from the body of the document yes it is true so you know in itf 106 meeting they recommend that this document is a little too long so it must be short and it narrow down and focus something so reflect the command the uh this section was originally section 5.1 but it was moved to appendix a but now uh the relationship from the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "main body is not exist so i would like to ask how to handle the appendix say my personal opinion is to remove this appendix a if it is not important okay next page please okay next page yeah the final comment from robert spark is that this document has some misuse of canal description and marketing words for example superior range so he suggests to change to better than or goes further so i agree that because this trap has some parts which are recognized at the marketing world because we invited some expert for example double threat or electricity or white sun etc so there are some use of the marketing world so i try to change the marketing words to technology words in this revision okay next page please this is the comment from p3 uh she says that there are no the major issue and there are some minor issues two or three items so i try to update to reflect all minor issues in this revision okay next page please yeah that's sure thank you okay so one comment by the way as author of the document regarding appendix there is a paragraph introduction which says that the document covers design dimensions and so on so uh removing the appendix maybe one approach"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "but another approach is to to add a forward reference from the last paragraph to this appendix a and also if i'm not [Music] mistaken i think that there's a comparison table where each row in the table is based on the different design space dimensions so we can discuss maybe or well later how to proceed but another approach is keeping the appendix and maybe adding some forward reference but we can discuss okay thank you yeah um i do agree with carlos i i do apologize i didn't read the appendix but i don't think that just removing it without just for an editorial issue makes sense the first question is is there any information that is useful if yes then the solution of cardless is the best way forward in my opinion i'll insert myself in the queue here and say on the security considerations stuff um there's there's plenty of text that we can point to from rfc 8200 security section and 8200 has links to other security documents for ipv6 neighbor discovery security considerations so i don't know uh if that would satisfy robert's concern but we could certainly point to all the other security sections and all the other things it's basically because i there's nothing there are no new conservative security considerations per se right i mean all the security considerations are things that affect all the sub-ip layers for all of ipv6 yeah so there's we can just point to a bunch of existing text i think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "i'll uh i'll send some mail about uh okay so if there are no other comments on the draft next we proceed to the multicast address listener registration presentation by pascal locales can you hear me okay yes perfect so sorry not to be here with you guys so yes we are we are uh now deep into the the process of the multicast registration document so this document was stimulated by work which happened effectively in uh an alliance in three alliance called white sand that was just mentioned where they use six low and raw uh rfcs to be on the solution for mostly for the smart grid over i2.15 for so um the multicast registration came from the realization that they still had to do a lot of multi of link layer multi link multicast uh to support mld even if we managed to avoid it for nd so that was the question i mean how could we do the equivalent of mld but uh in a way that is a pull from the device as opposed to to from the router basically the the or push call it the push from the device as opposed to a pull from the router so the device would not have to be listening to paradigm ld reports so next slide please so we we started with this and we ended up uh also looking at the way the multicast is distributed in ripple and since as you know most of the iot cases of repo are using non-storing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "mode we figured that there was a need as well to enable the multicast across the non-storing mode network and so we we did that as well so the draft actually ends up doing work for six law but also work for raw so in in this new uh update and since well basically there were two or three updates since atf 113 uh it was mostly clarification it's not like well there is one thing i will show you in the next slide but most of the rest is clarification so we clarified that uh effectively it's a push from the device when the device wakes a support as opposed to a pull from mld which would require the device to stay awake um a clarification that this tid you know the sequence number that's that is in the air option and in ripple as well um is not used for freshness assertions since any cast and multicast come from different sources that are not necessarily synchronized for setting the tid so we clarified that the tid is not checked and so the state actually disappears with a lifetime timeout so that's why it's important that the lifetime is chosen correctly um and we the the big change is basically a command i think it was from newcastle i'm not too sure anymore but the basically the question was how you know if the writer reboots how do we know that uh it needs to to fetch some state and so we did two things the first thing which really addresses the low power devices is a multicast arrow status that can be sent a synchronous line and the name sh any cast or multicast which will basically say hey any state that i would have had i could have lost and so please refresh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "and since this is a pull by the router again it's something that the low power devices might miss uh it actually shoots the the the lower layer that ysan for instance has because they effectively has a multicast periodic window so they can use that but for other iot devices or iot networks where there is not such a periodic multigas window then it might be that this n a is missed by the devices so we also introduced something for the array which is the node uptime option it's going to be next slide and finally i had some comments some only comments by amanda barber uh about the ayada section so i cleaned you know the wording of the irs section to to make it fit the way i now wants it written so that's already done that will save us time on the publication process now what is this new node uptime option it is something that was needed in rfc8505 that was not there because at the time we we didn't really care uh about going to a network where um that there would not be enough reliability on the routers basically and so uh now we figured that it was actually a mess it was a command that we got a number of times and so we kind of leveraged this specification and the particular discussion we had uh on dna um with this new status to effectively add the option in arrays so it's it is um something that will require um six-man uh visibility so now i'm talking to eric since i see you here we are proposing a new option in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "array to basically tell well for the array to say how long this router has been up it's basically um the sequence and a um a time and so the the time i is split in two fields one is an exponent and then there is mantissa this allows to express very short and very long times depending on what the exponent is with two bytes so we we kept it short because you know there are many things in arrays and uh so that's why we compressed the value this basically says in the agnostic fashion you know this router has been up for this time and so if you registered if the node uses that to register at the registered um or in longer before basically the beginning of the new life of this router then the device can figure that the router is not aware of the registration status of this device and this device should re-register so this is basically another way for advertising uh that the the device is uh has reboot so the router has reboot then again the array itself can be a multicast and then again the device might not be listening to it but it can also be stimulated by by the device sending an rs if it fails to connect or something or just um sends an rs to the old routers is still available and with this rs the the router will reply with another type option and the host will basically see that the router has not been up for so long so this is this is the second way basically that we propose to uh enable the the host to discover that the router has been down and has lost registration state next slide please so that's basically it i mean"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "effectively the document has been stable apart from this addition this last time edition about you know awareness of the of the router status and how long the writer has been available so i understand that you know that this is a cross area discussion we have uh some work uh which interests roles which which interests role someone which which interests six law we decided to package that together to have a consistent story so people would see exactly what's going on for multicast and with this i will leave you know for questions and then if um the chairs want to say something about next steps okay so if if there are no questions basically we discussed with the raw chairs and we informed our respective ads about the plan so the plan would be that if there is no significant issue raised in this meeting then we plan to launch a coordinated working glass call which will happen in both six low and role working groups and well on the other hand sixth law will remain as the home working group regarding shepherding making decisions and so on but anyway the process will be coordinated with growth and then there is this new option right at the uptime for which we need to to coordinate with six men i mean either six-man opposes in which case we can retract it from the document or if like a six man in which case we can leave it so basically there's always this risk do you plan to present uh the draft in six months this week i would like to present the option at six man at the the next uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "but but if it could be discussed on oh ultimately yeah tim since you reviewed the other documents for six men because yeah i think you could tim winners qa cafe i think you could send it to six million but i also was wondering about a multicast group should maybe look at this one because it's got a lot of multicast i don't think the whole organ group needs to look at it but i think you probably want to check in i'm guessing pin is the last or m bone would be either one of those would be popped into my brain is just having them look at this and from a multicast perspective but yeah six man i don't think it's on the agenda but i think you should run it by the working group for sure because of the options yeah that that's interesting we are effectively the team we actually got that remark long ago at the beginning of this document about multicast and as it goes what you need to see is there is no there is multicast in the original repo using the preferred parent tree inside the ripple but that's for storing mode and here this is kind of specific we are doing non-story so what happens is the root of the ripple graph will basically do ingress replication and tunnel so there is even though it's it's it's a multicast registration there is no real multicast operation inside the graph it's it's just ingress replication of our uh tunnels to the edge routers so so yeah it's it's a neutral for multicast okay so so eric what would be your suggestion for the the array option how should we move forward with this one i admit that i don't fully understand"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "what its intended use case is uh anything that goes in the ra you know in normal nd semantics means it's only all the information in the ra must be consumable by all multicast percent volume by by all nodes recipients right yeah and this is why it's very abstract can you go down come on go back one slide or two please yeah this one so so it's the oath no back yeah this one so the easy option it the only thing it says really is is how long this router has been up because you know when the router goes away it can send a final array but and some people might miss it and and the router reboots and if they have done whatever and it's completely agnostic to what they have done with this router uh might maybe they will be interested in knowing that the router has rebooted and has been alive for this long but the only thing that the option says basically says the router has been up for this long and so it in our case uh we use it to presume that the router has lost state and that's valid for any kind of state that the hope that the router could form does this um could this i mean that that sounds like the thing that could have some applicability to multiple considerations uh can it be a a document on its own just just about this option yeah i could do that too i guess if if that's what the group prefers now the only thing is will this document be blocked or is that why yeah i guess we can write it such a way that it augments this one without amending it right so if if we take it separately i'm willing to do that yes then i would just take up the reference"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "to that document publish again to that option publish again without it and then make it a separate draft and a separate draft would say oh it can be used for instance for for this draft is that the way you would yeah i mean i i can see where this could be useful for just for detecting reboots and possibly for some of the slack renumbering concerns there were similar i think nothing written but there were some real similar discussions about having some kind of a generation number or a generation id uh which is which is the ssi probably yeah um but uh i can't recall if there's any any draft actually written about that but um okay so your suggestion is take it on a separate draft right make it a very short simple draft for six men yeah and the thing is you're gonna have to decide um how much you want to attempt fate in that draft by listing various conceivable use cases given that they might all be picked apart by people to say whether it is or is not useful uh it might be better to just say to just to assert that it is or it could be used but yeah so i can basically take this document we can progress this document and and use it as one reference that this thing is useful because you're gonna yes i think you're also gonna need um yeah it's going to have to have an accompanying operational guidance section right that readers must reset uh i guess there is but i can take all that text of this document i mean it's it's more of a you know almost last-minute edition and you know the requirement that i you know we we make this rfc with a certain set of requirements in mind and we for the sort of requirements that we have in mind there is effectively your multicast channels and in most of the iot networks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "i'm aware of they have a multicast channel they don't want it's not fat right you can't use it often but it exists and so we can use dna with the new status and that's enough for instance for y sub um so it's okay for me to remove that option and put it in a separate document we still have a consistent solution but we only have dna we don't have the array the array was you know for the use case m and were off it was nice to have yeah i don't know i haven't um i don't know how the document stands with this piece uh removed um so i wouldn't well it was it worked like that all the time it's it's a very recent addition so i i guess it would still i mean we want this option it's more like uh this was a way to avoid doing yet another rfc but if your recommendation is effectively to do yet another rfc then then just to keep things separate then we do it we kind of package the full soyuz in one rfc in this case we have six low we have raw and so we would have had a little bit of six men as well um but if that's not the proper way for six men then we can take that off make it separate uh yeah let me you can uh maybe we should talk to the six-man chairs see what they think about a separate document how that might be received uh whether that's useful if you're if you're if you're up for it i mean i'm open i mean the the document can move without it uh i needed a vector to carry it so that was one way if you tell me there is a better way i'll take the better way uh i don't know exactly what th what a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "better way might be just yet but yeah we should we can talk about it offline yeah yeah with eric and the six-man chairs i'm completely open so yeah and i will update the document based on that conclusion and then we can launch the work group let's go on buff sites i guess we can do the one goodness calls with the current document but if the chess prefer uh i can take it off just let you know yeah maybe once every uh has a response from the six-man chairs they're probably maybe cleaner to to launch the weather call uh with a separate part uh i don't know if that's whatever they conclude right so if if they decide that they should remove that section make it separate then they'll do it and then we can launch work up let's go if they say it's okay let's just circulate it by six man then we'll we'll do that as well so so basically we will be holding that's how i understand right we'll be holding the word group let's go till eric gives us the green light and and the the action to be taken have i understood that correctly uh you're going to wait for me to send email and ccu and the chairs to talk about yeah basically we we we we will be waiting for recommendations by you eric wink uh six many ladies and six-man shares i'm sorry about making it separate or or circulating it through six-man scs yeah i can start that email thread and then we can we can see where it goes nice but that's that's it on my side that's that's where we are thank you very much guys okay thank you thank you pascal so i guess yeah uh okay i'll try to make it fast"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "so i'm going to present uh the update of the crafting title transmission compressed package over 15.4 networks my co-author is anna miraburo from mcleod next please so basically here there are some numbers this is about the motivation for the draft the idea is that with chic in some cases we are able to achieve greater heavy compression ratio than with traditional six low pan header compression especially if we consider also compression of application layer protocols like co-op so this expectation is this should lead to some significant performance improvement next please sorry oh we've lost the slides yeah i think shweta is offline at the moment so i don't know if eric is it possible uh yes i could try i don't know how to share from here i tried to make myself yes a delegate so but i have to be the first time i've ever tried to do that let's see here uh nope that just opens this up okay maybe i can open the materials i don't know how to share them okay maybe here we go okay this one share yeah so i'm seeing them on the screen now so if you can go to slide number three please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:04",
    "text": "no no no i guess it's you who is now can you control the those lights yes yes yes take me away to several okay thank you so basically i'm presenting revision03 of the document which tries to enable the transmission of sheet compressed package over 15.4 networks next please so yeah on the updates in the draft you may recall that there was a problem with how we are going to compress ipv6 addresses and udp ports by using chic so sheik uses dev and up terms in its specification that corresponds to a constraint device on the left in the figure app corresponds to a network site infrastructure not constrained on the right and the shift specification this rfc 8724 um defines that compression of ipv6 addresses and udp ports is performed uh expressing who is dead and who is up and not in terms of what is the source or the destination in of these fields so here the point is that because an entity knows in advance whether it corresponds to debian in chic then this allows some optimization because a single compression rule allows it to be usable in both directions as expressed in terms of level however well the point is that in some 15.4 scenarios we can still use this optimization as is for example in star topology networks however if you go to slide number five next slide please there are some other scenarios in 15.4"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "where we cannot just use the same approach as this because for example two peers within a mesh topology uh might be candidates to be considered depth so then who is that who is up so this is the problem the consensus so far has been trying to to stick to the developed terms because they are very much at the core of sheik and they still allow this optimization of using a single rule for compression in both directions and in version 0 3 we now state that the chic compression decompression entity needs to know uh which is the role developed for each one of the rules that are going to be used in communication and actually this needs to be known in advance before communication happens and well knowing the role in advance makes sense because the rules also need to be written beforehand in advance before communication happens also now in zero three we reference the lp1 architecture draft um so this has some additions it will be discussed by the way the architecture draft in the lp1 working group later this this week and the idea is that it starts to provide a solution on this problem of who is that who is that in environments which are outside or beyond the original lp1 architecture next please so we've added a new section of title multi-hop communication where we explain that we can use routeover which means that routing is performed at the ip layer there is one straightforward approach that may be used to transmit compressed packets in this case which however requires all nodes to store all the rules in using the network so this presents some challenges in terms of scalability in terms of network size memory and so on so an alternative"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "is that if ripple is used as the routing protocol then as suggested by pascal we can exploit ripple on story mode and use rfc 138 to make it efficient and in this case an endpoint must only store the rules for the communications it is involved in so this is some idea that we plan to develop and elaborate in subsequent versions of the draft and then we can also use mesh handler in this case there is no particular challenge uh to enable the transmission of g-compress packets here again in this case an endpoint just will not need to store the rules for the communications it is involved in and as a sort of optimization for reducing further the header we state that the rule id may be reused across disjoint pairs of endpoints however this means greater complexity so this is just some idea at the moment let's go yes sorry for the gory details but in uh non-stop we can use non-stirring mode uh in ripple even if the main diode is storing mode and we do that for uh low power devices which are not ripple aware and we can expect that a device that needs chic is probably not ripple aware it's probably one of those low power devices so it makes a lot of sense to to not contribute to not that straight to ripple use the ripple underwear leaf mode in which case it's always reported on story so when it's reborn on storing there is a tunnel between the first router and the um the the root so basically the root would have to know the rules for everybody and the leaf would just need their own set of rules so so it's not with every communication i mean the wording is not entirely crisp it's not the communication between twin points it's every end point communicating to the root the root will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "will decompress may recompress if the destination inside the dag or it will just send to to whatever up there but basically the compression would happen over the ripple network over the device to to root tunnel and yeah we we need basically the 6lr we would need to spend some time explaining exactly how it works but that's that's what would happen basically the session would be oriented you know the hub would be the roots there is enough discussion on lp1 uh specification that when there is a habit spokes the hub is effectively the node that has rule for every spark and it is the it is up basically it is the upside so yes kind of lines yes maybe the same comment as possible if you use ripple then you have up and down so it's so it's very very close we use it who is it it is the app and the doubt it's completely consistent with the architecture it's just that the question was who has to have the rules and the route must have the rules to every uh ripple number nice right because there will be a tunnel between the reaper and the wall if and the rule the route um but the reaper and valiant just need its own set of fruit of rules and it doesn't need the set of rules of anybody else because the root will decompress and recompress if needed it's just the interaction between the the the loop ripper now if in the the first xlr if if we want to already send chic compressed packets there so or if we want the first xlr to do the compression on behalf of the reaper and the relief which is another possibility okay thank you so i guess we'll elaborate on the details and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "if we go quickly because we're running out of time to the next slide so yeah basically we are recommending that in the case of router virtual reassembly buffer should be used so i guess we should stop here due to the lack of time and we can continue discussing on the list and i guess that we can proceed with the next presentations on nsa by ouija hello so i in principle i can control the slides from my mobile phone i send the request the church i guess should allow me to do it wonderful here is the one okay so i have shrinked my presentation from 20 minutes to to 10 less than 10. the first presentation is a very quick update on the nsa the native short addressing um so we did an update in june fixing the the last uh concerns that were licensed okay um we did again as usual the the typos hunting um with the one main change is about reliability and i will come back to this in a couple of slides uh we added the clarification about the checksum calculation for the transport layer that was important and minor changes we need one new painting because we had"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "an exchange with carlos which yes make sense to update a reference and clarify another point uh one thing that we did pascal actually raised the the issue about reliability very important thing and uh we actually discussed for a while how to approach this part and what we decided is actually to have a separate document because this reliability can be guaranteed in different ways and there is no one that is at the end really special specific about the nsa so we took out uh an old section that was called benefits of native short addressing which anyway was partially talking about the reliability and we added a small reliability consideration section where what we do basically we discuss our routing versus stateless for welding because at the end of the day what we do with nsa is is stateless forwarding we we structure the addressing space in such a way that we we have an idea where to send the packet a few words about the fact that the reliability is a multi-faceted problem and obviously we reference the the new document um so this is what the status on 113 so we had a few things to update okay to incorporate the this has been done um we said we're gonna issue revision three after one one three we did okay again we have these small uh things to be added but it's very minor note so we think really that the the document is pretty stable and uh unless there are main concerns that someone has we think we we can go uh forward for uh working group adoption i mean uh we we were"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "kind of hinting on this on the 113 but we had some some work to do now is done and we we consider that is relatively stable the document and that's it for this one three minutes so unless there are questions i guess um this goes to the chairs about how do they want to proceed about the working group adoption call yes so uh perhaps it may be good to have at least the first sense of the room on adoption so i will use the show hands tool so in using the show of hands tool please raise your hand if you have read any version of the draft okay so at the moment at least nine people have read at least a version of the draft then so this is to get some sense of the room we are not making a decision at the moment okay and yeah so then the idea will be to to move to the mailing list uh we we're going to to discuss and um yeah issuing a working group um sorry i call for working group adoption"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "will happen on on the mailing list so next okay if you want to use the last remaining minutes for the presentation on reliability uh i can go very quickly on the just to show the main approaches that we have there um yeah sure also also usually the room is closed five minutes past the official time so maybe let's use some additional extra time from there i will try to stay in the four minutes remaining [Laughter] it's a challenge [Laughter] [Music] but i still see this who has read any version of the draft on the screen um i think it is up to you carlos to take it out somehow yes now it should be out yeah i have permission already this is the right set of slides this is the chest okay okay so this is now new draft that we um we build in order to to tackle this issue about reliability this is very important so the main the main point is that there are several solution uh classes of solution that we can use uh the most important one let me go is the fact that obviously we need uh some prerequisites so the fact that actually we have redundant links now the question then is you can build multiple topology using multiple addresses or you you just decide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "which link do you use you use one single address address for each node and you try to remember which link is active which one is not used okay so basically in the multiple addresses uh solution what you do is you build several topologies which means basically if you remember nsa is based on a tree uh topology so you have a second route and you uh add a secondary address uh for the nodes so by doing so you have two completely orthogonal topologies and you one you use it as a primary topology and then you have to decide when to switch to the second one when there is a failure now here there is such an example where that cross obviously is a failure what happens is a node can can uh send through an the secondary topology an icmp message to the main route to say look this branch of the tree subtree is not reachable anymore because i i see a failure okay and this way the root can can store this this information and redirected the traffic when needed same thing when we have a link that is broken you have to do the same thing from both sides so that you redirect in the right in the right way okay so that you still have a rich ability all the time pascal you have a question already yes if if uh for instance you have the breakage that you show here but it's the 1000 the guy in the bottom left it's not aware of that breakage is it [Music] 1000 yes it's not a word what happens if if he sends traffic upward is 100 that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "redirects the traffic doesn't need to be the there is just one thing is meaningful what you said is you can consider optional to send i say an icmp downwards and you say you may consider to use your secondary address in order to bypass or all of this okay you have no choice because 100 will not get the traffic i mean you would have one would have to figure out that along the path there is a breakage and then it needs to take the bypass and instead of my bottom line is you're starting to doing to do a routing protocol as soon as you start doing this your your you put your your hands on europe and the pandora box after writing protocol sorry for me your voice was not clear can you repeat the point oh i'm sorry again doing all those things you're opening the pandora box of a routing protocol so the whole deal was you're you you don't need a routing protocol and now you're starting to do one so this is things we discussed a little bit in the draft but we need to clarify more the point is if you have few few failures you have a few very small state and few redirections and everything works fine uh but as long as you have something that's more unstable more failures more dynamicity this goes back to routing indeed and in a certain way so the other solution goes along what you are saying because we use still um redundant links but we use just one single addressing space so so we we every node has one single address but he has to store alternate um neighbors like an alternate patent a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "different childs and so to make a decision when there is a a failure let me go maybe to the final slide here the point is with what we discussed in this document is if you use multiple addresses the the the in the root you have very low state because this really depends how how many failures do you have okay and also the the state that you put into the nodes is pretty low uh but because everything is done locally in a certain way and there is no coordination at all the more failures you you have i mean the more messy you you you end up and there is less guarantee that there is a feasible path okay when the single address solution okay in the root in a certain way it has to have a a good knowledge of the topology hold the topology so the the state is higher okay uh on the single node we we still have low state because it's basically neighborhood okay and but the robustness is higher just because you you concentrate the uh knowledge in the roots so there is more coordination and more failures that you can keep up with so but your rider is there are trade-offs and then at some point if you consider that your network is not as stable and reliable as you think certainly you have to think whether or not to put routing okay adnan hello adnan we cannot hear you yes uh can you hear me now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "no yes yes luigi uh have you tested the failure scenarios of the multi with multiple classes mean if you are saying is not reliable so alan is not reliable actually their nature is actually like this so so i think uh uh can you tell me the failure scenarios you guys have tested okay with sorry to interrupt um i guess in some seconds we are going to get the room closed not [Music] and available so let's hope that we can see each other in london and yeah perhaps we should also ask for a longer session okay so have a nice itf week thank you thank you everyone wait a minute um"
  }
]
