[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:23",
    "text": "I would appreciate it if few people moved over to outside of the world, even if you're doing email. 2nd I I thought you were gonna say we're not expecting a lot of people, so are you sure you're in the right place? Let's start with some humor but that's not really the this is much nicer. Kozi, I'm This is also a a note taking free working group. Which means that cherry, one of the sheriff thank you once. Is that trying to trying to, journey. For attendance. Alright. 931. Actually, I have a bunch of people submit the call. Don't see pressure. Or did it reduce or did it? Alright. Good morning, Gaffer, by the knap in Prague. You'll see in the note 12 before I'm sure. It also applies here. Today, we have a single agenda item, and that's an update, by the editors. Just in is here with us, and he will be talking about the core protocol"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "and the resource server. Draft And then if, time allows, any other business anything else people would like to talk about before we start? Guess that's a no. Justin. Yeah. I don't do that. I mean, that's, like, my entire presentation. On this slide right now. Yes. So, okay. And thank you for No. Thank you. It's a it's a long document. Thank you for the thorough review. Was that or make it into 13 documents like we did with OL too? And you should have control. Alright. Yes. I have control. Awesome. Hello, everybody. Welcome to Prague. Name is Justin Richard. And, This is Gannap. So, today, we're basic gonna go over the changes since, the last meeting in San Francisco for both the core and, excitingly, the RS draft. So, the diffs are here, which we probably will click into in in a bit. But I'm gonna basically give a a, an overview first before we go into that. The core draft changes, we got a fantastic AD review is very thorough, picked up a a lot of a lot of stuff that was either ambiguous or unclear. And so anything that anything that kind of looked like a normative change. There was a change to normative language was actually capturing the intent of the text that person"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "spelled out there pretty much. So, I functionally considered it no normative changes. In that. This was all posted out to the list with that planations, in GitHub for all of these things. And, we are waiting for some feedback on things like I think non sizes and time outs and just what the best current guidance is for that. I am not the expert for that. So whenever we get guidance for what those things should be. We'll, we'll get there. And it is now in ISG review. We've received the first review. Fabian and I have read that over, and, we're discussing how to, adjudicate each of those comments in there. We don't actually think that there's anything, to us, at least, it doesn't seem to be anything major changes. It's just a lot of clarifications, which might be some text changes to make sure that the next person that reads the draft actually gets the right idea of the text, which is kind of the whole point of writing a standard. So, yeah, very exciting that this is finally an review. It's been a long time coming. Now on the RS draft, as we promised at the last IATF, we really buckled down and went through the core issues to figure out, what we were gonna do with them. And, in most cases, it was really just a lot of, a lot of kind of grunt work, getting in there and figuring out, you know, filling out the Diana section, clearing up the introduction and abstract and things like that that needed to be done, but just got back burner for such a long time as the, as the core spotlight. So lots of tech changes in the RS draft. Most of it is expansion of the existing text. A couple of new things that I wanted to highlight here And, again, all of this has been posted to the list. of the first the biggest set of changes is One now have security and privacy considerations. This has been a to do for a long time. Obviously something that we need."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "I asked when people, review this section of the text, remember that this is looking at it from an focused view. So, things where the the client has to consider something or the AS considers how it's dealing with the client. You know, those types of privacy, those things in security, those things belong in court. These are things that the RS and AS. So for example, If you're using token introspection, then every time the RS calls the AS for token introspection, that's sending a signal to the AS that the token is being used. This is a privacy consideration. In many systems, it's something that you actually want to have but you need to be aware that this is something that is that is being signaled. Because not every system, fully trusts the AS with, with that knowledge of where all of the tokens are being used in real time. If you have a more distributed system, that's definitely a consideration. Oh, and, and things like, if you put tons of information into into the access token that the, RS can read. For example, you have a token that can go to, like, 5 different RSs. Then each of those RSs, if they're capable of reading the token, you're telling it about what's capable at all of these other RSs, even if it's key bound, that leaks information. And, this is one of the reasons why Ganapple allows for multiple access tokens to if if this is something that matters in your ecosystem, you can really scope that down very tightly. We've seen that with the open payments group and and the like. And in the, I know the verified me implementation does some similar for this reason. But it's something that you need to consider. You know, something you need to be aware of, which is exactly the point of the security considerations. This is our first time actually expanding this section out. I sure we've missed some things. Please take a read through what's there. If there's stuff that is missing,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "please, you know, post to the list, post an issue to GitHub, or even better, post a poll request, and, provide some text so that the editors can actually incorporate that. Justin, We could do you want us to, like, request an early review from the security director for the RS. Yeah. Sure. Okay. Draft because it's largely laying out a set of sort of options and patterns, And, so instead of it being a single cohesive protocol like core. It's, It's it's more along the lines of, you know, here's a bunch of things that you could do. So We we do have a member of the sector security director that's still reeling from the code draft. They don't have to send it to the same person. Yeah. Yeah. Roman agrees earlier review. And, yeah, no, sounds great to me. Okay. One kind of, larger functional change is that we fanded a lot of the discussion about, AS specific token. Now one of the things with Knapp is that the AF provides its own set of APIs. Some a lot of those are client facing. So like the, the grant management and continuation API, the token management API, things like that. But we also have a bunch of RS facing APIs. This includes introspection, resource registration, and even discovery. And previously, the text in the RS draft had been pretty handwavy about you need to protect it by authenticating using one of the authentication mechanisms in GNABCORE. But one other thing that we realized is that you actually, can also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "It very reasonably, interpret that to mean you could protect it with its own access token just like the other AS hosted APIs that are client facing. And this idea, is I not new to an app. This is actually how Ooma user managed access does its RS facing API stuff. So the, the resource registration endpoint, I think, is what Uma calls it, if I remember correctly. And so we added in a clause that says to do that. And in doing so, it kind of calls out the fact that we now have these classes of tokens that don't face external RSs should not be used at an external RS. But face APIs, that are meant to be used with APIs that are hosted by the AS itself. So we call those out specifically and, call them out as you know, limited security artifacts including this one for all of the RS facing APIs. Now the details of how you get that, we've placed out of scope for this. I believe it should remain out of scope for the RS draft because it's basically get a gap token somehow. And that's up to your ecosystem. If, somebody really believes strongly that that should be specified more tightly, please bring that up on the list and, ideally, again, provide text so that, so that we can incorporate something like that. The biggest thing that we wanted to do here in this goes hand in hand with the security considerations. Which also reflected, an expansion of some of the texting core. Is that these particular access tokens should never be received by a resource server. The AS should be minting different access tokens for each of these APIs and never handing out the same access token to be used across, itself as well as other resource servers."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "The reason for this being all of the reasons we talked about for token information, leakage, and usage. Previously. So this, again, a bit of a normative change, but it also was kind of an expansion of what the, What the intent of the resource server facing API was to begin with. So any thoughts or questions on that? Because we are Just about wrapped. Okay. Gonna be a short meeting. Alright. And finally, Yarn actually pointed out something that has, that has been obvious to me for years now, but realized wasn't actually spelled out in the draft at all. This is a feature that goes all the way back the original XYZ prototype. You know, so pre gonna And that is what you do with all the bits of information in the resource that registration piece. So, hopefully, this is spelled out better in both the normative examples now. But what happens is when you're doing set registration, the RS tells the AS, hey. I've got this set of resources that I wanna protect. And you get back a resource set identifier. Then when the client shows up and token that's good for that set of resources the RS can hand back to the client This is the access identifier that you need to use in order to reach me. And this is an opaque identifier. It doesn't, doesn't actually spell out the details of it, but it's supposed to be good enough for the client to be able to do whatever it was doing at the resource server at that time."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:04",
    "text": "Which means that the client turns around and requests a token for that using the access array. So this is a resource access reference field field. Along with all of the other objects with types and actions and all of that other stuff. You can send this as a string based resource access request And then the AS can map that to the resource set that was, described and registered by the resource server in the first place. So this was the pieces were always intended to fit together like that. But this was never actually written down anywhere. It's written down now. Hopefully that makes sense, but because it's new text, again, please take a look at it and make sure that, it is clear that how this information is intended to flow through the system. This, takes inspiration again from the Ooma is it? Distributed resource set, authorization, distributed authorization, system. I think it's called totally blanking on the name. Do you remember life? Yeah. Look, Anyway, it takes ins inspiration from that a little bit, but fits into Ganapps. Native resource request mechanism that allows us to do this. In a way that will makes sense to gonna have clients. And that is actually pretty much all I had. We think that the RS draft is close to working group last call, I would really like more eyes on it in the working group first before we try to make that declaration, but It's not that complex. There's not a lot of moving parts there. There's a decent amount of text, but again, it's all sort of separate pieces and options that's it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:04",
    "text": "kind of like a menu for resource servers that want to connect in different dynamic ways. So at this point, the editors think that the that we're pretty close to working group last call. An early review would be great to, sort of confirm that, we're going in the right direction there. And, I hoping that we can actually get into, last call before Brisbane. And, and wrap that up. We've got a couple of issues left in the issue tracker. That Fabienne and I have, talked about we know basically where we wanna go with those issues And, Yeah? That's that So, Justin, just to be clear, you're hoping to finish up So we you are you hoping for a meeting in Brisbane, or you're hoping not to have a meeting in Brisbane? I mean, if we can get far enough that we don't to have a meeting in Brisbane, that would be great. I have a feeling we probably will. But, you know, probably a short meeting. Because I would like us to be in, if not past, working group last call by then, and have us be able to say, these are the last set of changes that we've been making, give that readout, and go on with the day. And how we're expecting a new version, you said there's still a few a few issues have. Okay. Yeah. So we we will be expecting at least one new version of RS and, to, to address the the couple of open issues. But, I strongly encourage people to review what's there. Because we did publish a new version just before, just before this meeting, and, You know, it it does have a lot of changes, there. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "more eyes on that sooner. Don't don't wait for the next version is what I'm Yeah. One more thing that I forgot to mention, the core protocol is still in I itflastcall for another few days. So if you haven't yet, please take a read Just a quick one. It's over 200 pages. Yeah. Just a small couple hundred pages. It's it's fine. Although I am proud to say a lot of that is examples. Hi. This is Roman Danielia, the the sec AD for this work group. I didn't jump So in terms of kind of procedurally, there is actually plenty of time still for review. It is an IETF last call. The next step is it's gonna go to the ISG. The problem is, of course, that the ISG time bounds, what what's red at every kind of tel chat. The next tel chat is November 30th due to the length of this document. I can't even put it on the 11th. Got a 31 even everything was ready, which means we're now in mid December. So there are a number of weeks that that still review this and provide feedback. So please don't hesitate to do Mhmm. Yep. And, you know, I can speak for the editors. We are looking at the comments as they come in and you know, we, we plan to, address all those. Alright. Yeah. Please close yourself. I think that's it. So, to sum up, we're we're we are working our ways towards finishing the work. And it's always the hardest, right, in a working group where you've done good work and you actually need finish everything. Right? So let's just get that done. Please, and we will help by getting early review of the from the security director. So we we don't have to get stuck on that. And with that, I think, Oh, actually one last bit that I remembered. This is just a little bit of a positive note. Had a conversation, with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "another implementer out in the wild, they unfortunately can't, cannot lists their implementation in the implementation section due to company policy, stuff like that. But, they came into the CNAP space for a lot of the same reasons that we've been seeing other implementations. There's like, little key bits and differences that, that really matter to them. And, so this particular person is hoping that they'll actually be able to open source their implementation, but they can't even talk about it publicly yet. So I'm I'm in the very awkward position of, like, I know that this exists that I'm excited that it exists, and I might be able to show you someday, but I can't even tell you where it is right now. But it does exist. Trust me. I can add that we have an implementation sales that will go into production for a fairly large, k through 12. National testing scheme. So it will actually get quite a lot of use. In in our case, the use case is super simple. Right. Yeah. But it's still that's what attracted us to map that it's so super simple because, actually, Yeah. And speaking about the implementation sections, Do we, or did we have an implementation status on in call. We do in core. We don't in the RS draft. Okay. So that needs to go before we publish as RFC, I suggest that's that's That's, the the process for for implementation status sections. I happen to have written the RFC. So that doesn't stay in the RFC. I suggest that you move it into, into a weekly on on GitHub. Oh, okay. To save the information. Yeah. Okay. That's fair. Yes. Like, I I knew it came out. I thought the RFC editor did that for us, but But, yeah, we'll make sure that that's captured. Remove it. They are not going to to open the Gotcha. Yep. That makes sense."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "We have the working group Wiki on GitHub that I think we can do. Yeah. Roaming it. Yeah. I mean, exactly to this idea of, like, what will be durable. If you put it in the wiki, it will still be there when you publish RFC. It's it's gone. So you would have to go to the old ID, which is, I think, what you're on is kind of reminding yourself. Yep. Makes sense. So, yeah, the editors will make a point to do that. Far end. Alright. Once. Going twice. Excellent. Thank you. Is working. Thank you Yeah. Oh, you uploaded it. Alright. I used to do it in the head show. Yeah. No. I mean, in the meeting materials. Could you press the button? You need to import it from Edge Doc. It's only one blue button. Go to materials. Right? It's Not this one. Oh, yeah. There you go. So if we if we Yes. Okay. 2 buttons. Yeah. You know, Yeah. I mean, and, you know, here's the side Right."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:08",
    "text": "What the boundary Alright. Cool. Alright. Thanks, Yes. Yeah, as far as I know, and I'm thinking Microsoft does a lot of hear little steps with grass, after after they realized the actual data they've got a pretty big implementation of an old No."
  }
]
