[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "Welcome everyone. Let's start right in time. This welcome to Ec working group session on Monday. I'm thrilled Julian is remote. Unfortunately, he can't make it. But we have our secretary Harry helping me out with the logistics. Thank you, Harry. Note. This is Monday. Some of you might be new to These focus on this slide, it gives you information about how It works. What are our processes, what are a code of conduct Ip policies, the way we behave with each other please go through it by attending this session and making contribution, you are agreeing to this note well. So please noted well. Meeting tips. For people who are remote, they must be on the meter c full session from people in the room, you have a lifeline that you can connect via your phone, you can use the Qr code as well, please use meter code to join the queue. Please don't directly to the mic. Please join the queue so that we can be fair with both remote an in person participants a bare mask That's the policy that we all have agreed when we have registered to. Please to like that. Please take only time where you take the mask off is while you are at the mic and you speaking. Otherwise please keep it on. For remote participants, please be mindful of audio and video please mute when you're not speaking. And join the queue Thank you. Some resources where you find agenda since you are here, I assume that you know all this, you know how to reach agenda and the meet echo another info mission, but if you face any problem, this are the set of resources for you to reach out to."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "Again, a reminder for It of guidelines for please be nice to each other. This is a community where we we tend to be technically give right comments, but at the same time, respect each other and towards the common goal of the incident that we need to work in a nice manner, both online in our mailing list as well as in the room while you are speaking at the my peace be respectful. We have minute, Thanks Harry. Met remains the same. We have the chat which is integrated on Met or otherwise, if are on your phone, you can also log in to Zulu. And look at the chat content there as well. The minutes, Har leading, but anybody else is free to join that's the link. For our notes page. It's also there in the beta core. Please help. Usual reminders, Please use the mailing list more actively, please be more vocal when we do working or last call adoption, there's lot of information that we put out in wiki come and update. This is your documents, all working group not just for the chairs and the secretary to maintain, but for the whole working group, keep it up to date and nudge the chairs when they are missing something and the information is incorrect for instance. If you have early code points, please we have a process for early pointer location. This is our usual reminder don't score. Don't try to just use random numbers. We have a process Please follow it. This is our agenda. We have segment routing, five presentations, state four Pc, and some others on Tls that net beer. As well. So pretty tight agenda, Is there any agenda bashing last minute? Any changes? Adding nothing. Let's move ahead."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "Let's start with the working group status. So since the last idea, we have two rf c's, we have Ls extended flags and v Association one document which is being in the Rf editor queue for a while. It's because of a to Sr six Luckily, the sa six is in post working group last call face, so we should be moving both those documents pretty soon hopefully. There are two documents with our eighty, the Gm m p one, and the the protection enforcement which hopefully, we will be sending to Is review and bigger review soon. There have been no new we have a input which is a recurring item for bunch of working groups pc c times specifically, Please be aware of them. We have an early Rna code point location So these are the current drafts, some of the drops are already in the working group last call or outside the working group, so that's pretty good. Some of them have been renewed. So this will be the last time. Hopefully, we will be able to get them to Rf publication before the expiry date so that looks pretty okay. We are pretty good, but These are the things that we need to prioritize as we move documents out of our queue. So Now I will try to go through some of the key documents and I might skip others, but if working group participants have something to say, please come to the Mic and use this time if you have some information to share to the working group. For P young, I am a quarter and Julian is leading this, currently, it is waiting for chair go head I did make an update around the deadline. There were comments from rooting, related to support of some features. There were some comments from Trump"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "there was a review young doctor, anyway has been done in the past, Mostly all the comments from the authors point of you are handle. We are just waiting for chairs review and then sending it out to the r a. If anybody has any concerns on this document, please Come otherwise, I'll move. Okay. Next is Ip... S sr six. This is on the agenda. There are still technical comments that needs handling I request doctors to make an update, maybe use this time in the meeting or outside the meeting to resolve this command so that we can this document So We have a document on native Ip, this document has not seen any recent changes. Remains stable. It's actually next in our working group last call queue. So after we are done with the yang and this this is the document that we will be sending This has impacts on idea and this has been reviewed by I in the ideal mailing list, there were comments from You that were handled But just information to the working group that we will be moving this next So if you have any concerns, Please raise it early, you don't just wait for the working or class call, You can get the process and handling comments smoother if if you are aware of what shares and the working group are planning with the next set of documents. Flex grid document has mainly been refreshed. There's a lot of silence, there's not been any concerns, but there have not been any updates either. Any input that the authors wanna give to the working group any information used your time now or send a mail to the mailing list, whatever you are comfortable with. K. Nothing Let's move This has been on my slide for multiple working group sessions. I I remind the working group that we have not received a feedback on this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "and it's still pending. It's like Julian and I and maybe discussing your John will take a call on this soon. I think next here we have to remove this and not keep the same slide every time. So if you have any concerns suggestions, think of this as your last chance and we will be deciding based on the feedback that we have. Even though it might be incomplete in our opinion, Sr park segment, a refresh, has has been done mostly as a refresh not much of a technical change. There was a question asked that it documents two mechanism the authors mentioned that in the list, there were no objection so it looks like we are going ahead with both the mechanisms if you have any concerns, Please voice your opinion on the list this document is nearing working group last call as well, so we wanted to give a heads up to the... To our working group. By part, again, mostly stable, looks like nearing working good last call as well. The other documents I think I would like to skip in the interest of time. I'll just... This one, there is any way on the agenda? The R R one point I wanted to highlight is there's a major change with respect to moving things from one document into this, which is a router Id Tl l v, information, which was in an another document, which was not adopted And since we wanna this we thought it's better to move this tl inside this document, which is a working group document, and hopefully, we will be pushing it out soon so instead of maintaining a mis, And and doing this is better, define a Tl v here and let the other document So that's the main change in this document. Multi part mostly at a refresh, state sync,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "No change recently looks to be stable if people have concerns please voice. Optional into domain with within inter domain with optional basically, again a refresh looks like to be pretty stable. It's a very simple extension Hopefully, we should be moving this pretty soon. Next we have into inter domain. This has expired and it has expired for a while. I did send a nudge to the authors as well. That it has been expired for a while, What are your plans? Have not heard anything back This is again, a reminder to authors, Please update your document don't it expired for a long time. And also to the community, I hope I have the received comments from people about this document. So I hope there is interest from the community But this is also your chance to voice your opinion, what do you think about this document and And also, it has an open question related to enhanced errors, which I was mentioning earlier whether this document should use the enhanced at extension defined by the that document. And I would like to move ahead, said A is on the agenda, author wants to get feedback before they update and that's fine. Let's update this document as well. Hopefully, after the this idea of. Other documents are sub some which are recently adopted Let's give them time. And we have an adoption pole queue, which is in our wiki key we keep adding documents, when Julian and I meet and discuss if you have any concerns if you wanna talk about ordering if you feel some document needs earlier we are open to suggestion, please reach out to us. There were some good discussions which I wanted to highlight"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:03",
    "text": "one discussion was about Pc operational draft. And the chairs have made the decision and given the guidance to Arthur to break the document into two we are waiting for the authors to make an update once they do we will add that into the adoption queue. And do our working group process as we agreed. Earlier. They work some questions related to a document which is out of working group, it was resolved in the mailing list. But just wanted to give a heads up to the list as well. And that's all for me, we have a wiki where we do maintain some coordination activity with other working group. Again, this is open. Please keep it update. If you think some coordination is needed, with other working groups, let's maintain it here so that cheers, remember to handle this, and we don't forget about this. You. Any last comments Otherwise, we are doing the long time. Yes. So far. Any other comments on working group documents Okay. Let's go back to our agenda. We have problem joining the queue. Please go ahead. Juniper. We haven't this regarding the color draft, the Pc draft. We haven't requested early point formally yet, but I just thought I'll put it out there. The record, we'll send an email out Thank you. Go ahead. Yep. I just wanted to start the presentation but we is nobody this vis other comments or any other questions Samuel, I've given you slight control, so you should be able to move the slides. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:07",
    "text": "Well there's about getting in Easter on the behalf of our now. I it in the past already already presentation content and discuss for extension to be develop. Be what be we would like to put a pause in far beach be like some discussion already happened done on and also weeks smaller I can work members, but seems all people things or yeah can be multiple people else. So it's better to get you better first. I valve be and state of the draft. The problem with get trying to solve propose So information about go for each sit in the public level although on Pc or pcc side? Example coming from out a configuration, but there was no way to send it. Britain can be used as a constant authentication, but there was no way and weeks we are trying to parallel we do current define the mean as good. One of main use cases is a photo also vacation size of completely second at least and easier there's very better alignment it'll be... Is our policy constraints and piece pc. So current version of the graph contains two parts The first one is about encoding the for each seat in the arrow. As I do I received like extending using several."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "Second part is about including the breaking. Which can be used for filtering twenty seats. You've been the documentation albert Tl contacts output rework the requirement and importance potentially hope to it is not possible to use very. Even specify algorithm is for example, well optimization metric time behind the talking of the recognition. Pc is not close okay. Not to the actual problem. And to describe the actual gap current on the draft. That's actually for in case of foot of seats I just give you a follow about based on constraints and optimization that information but pc, there is not secondary. Is an part once one ago for if this card slide, we can policy example hundred an organization example definitely hold out in simple. Is only group. Alright. So suites Smart? Or links around r two So s is start for. Is. Example And for example see. Because of the links to the that livelihood school of. But pc see it is not cost for definition easily pointed parts. Of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:06",
    "text": "if if there are any questions to the problem definition, just just feel to to maybe automatically now to the purple solution. So there are multiple possible solutions to this experiment but the both the the heating what we have proposing So we are the proposing to consider call times of example definition documentation on Pc side. Example definition So my no extension is maybe. It? There is still change that some sometimes they be received from employment but let me and also from These slip airport. So gcc. Which cannot result in various. So what we are proposing is to ignore constraints from each piece. Case of course once other objects. Like a b frank or I If Pc cannot satisfy all the constraints, basically keep feedback it seems that original know behavior discovery now. Is still maybe? So we would have to enter introduce new flaps and I just see right clear we to explicit good control posted should be So I would like to get feedback From the from the be anybody. Against this... If it it was supporting this change if if there are other, so please please feel free to to comment command service. It will be good to see if if this is very support change or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:08",
    "text": "I can go back no Either get to the problem statement manager order to the solution Yes. Samuel Juliet. What I would suggest is maybe we do this in two steps maybe in the first step, we can ask the working group. Does anybody has concerns with using Flex A as possible way for us to use fat as a already known set of constraints that should be applied at the time of path competition. Instead of focusing first on how do we do it? Let's just first make sure that as a working group, we agree that, yes, this is something that we want to do. And based on the input so far on the mailing list, it looks like, yes, most people did agree that, yes, this is something we wanted to do, this would be a chance for the working group if somebody has any concerns, mostly on whether we should do it or not, and then we can come up with the proposed solution. So I see people in the queue S. Go ahead. S, go ahead, please. Just. So I'll you hear me? Yes, we can hear you. Oh, something. I think about the use of a for the positive application. It is an option compared to with obviously that all policy group also this achieve same in our purpose for application, only one option both suitable. Two main regions the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "of a for consultation. The first flights it because a maybe of the between Under the second one, we have a note that about to introduce Ip as our constraints. If the simple current a set for change. Overseas. There's S, would you mind also sending this to the list so that it's clear. To the working group feedback. Thank you. Stefan, Go ahead, please. Stephen Cisco. Maybe just to comment or regarding what you have said because probably some things that I have listened misunderstood to the your. You know what you say that In fact, when you when you start to insert or you take the decision to insert flex in York. You cannot ignore the fat. There is no way you can even also fat because the fat will drive from an negative point of view. This I will call it the segment, but it's not the right path, but via... I would say the sub path within your end to end path, which is associated to this particular. So if you completely ignore the fan. You have no way to ensure that Ig will follow what you are expecting So I... For me it's not a question. Insert if you decide to insert of flexible, you need to be aware about the fat. And you you need to take it into account. So I'm sorry if I'm understood because I thought that was optional. Like, here we are seeing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "that by putting a flag, we are gonna otherwise, it's just mandatory, but we don't need a flag But even in the proposed solution from what I understood from Samuel was that we wanna make it as an option whether you consider fat plus, give me a path only with this particular sits from this a Id is a use case that folks when the original proposal came. In this case, you still have to consider father at at some point. While maybe I'm what you mean by consider fat. Like, am I gonna use this as a pop constraints? Or not. I I think it starts to be really Do you mean back consider? implementation dependent. But for internal implementation, we have to say how do we handle this And I was under the assumption that if there will be two options. That either we will say that consider fact, or just give me a spot with sets belonging to this algorithm Id. Which is possible but when you will insert that seed, you know that Ig will follow the pattern. Anyway, Yeah. So the one case that there are at least to cases one have been can be... What's a limited Pc implementation which is not considering out but then the thought does not have any metric type or any specified sense. And in such case you can do very ct. So it's a really limited use case. If you consider fat, which has just Ig metric, you cannot really say that it's flexible just the best Routing. Yes. So it's at gives out of The you need to you need to consider the fat. Not just about doing the it it's also following the tough computation logic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "is that Ig is applying when computing Flexible which means that for instance, when you... When you structural pro and you you look at the attributes of your link, you have who use attributes coming from Because it's more that of. Yeah. So that this was really about the simple case the Pc does not support full documentation will we discussed So so basically, make it huge stages as and make sure. Some many use case to basically and or to specify my clients date on the and not not. Not constraints or metric types on the on the of the recognition. Agree, That's it is definitely small small considering. I would request other people in the queue if they have keep their comments on this point specifically because if he not able to resolve this there's no point actually thinking of a proper proposed solution. And I would request the authors to sort of focus on this point first, before we jump into the solution discussion. So Andrew thoughts, So it's three. Hopefully, my thoughts make a little bit For my point of view, I see here. the usage of a fad value as part of a constraint is being valuable. So for example, let's say you've got a fed to defined your network and it's guided groups on it. Kind of, like the example in the slides. Me it makes sense to signal the Pc, hey, please find me a path using all the special capabilities you have and all the knowledge you have, but I also want you taking into consideration no at one point nine. Take that into constraints and take that into consideration. I think how that gets signaled or not pension like or whatever. Obviously, you said is an independent thing? But I think the idea leveraging the constraints that I already defined as part of a Flex is kind of useful. Thanks."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:04",
    "text": "Andrew a clarifying question. So yes, I think usefulness is established the idea is is there still a use case for not considering fat. That is... I just want to give me a part with which has of this algorithm Id. At least when we adopted this work, that was the use case. And I wanna make sure that has anything changed since then that's why I'm confused by this a little bit budget. Sure from the author's point of view. Not the time when I was know, considering doesn't make sense to say, please restrict since selection to a specific file. And there have been used cases where we've, you know, we've seen ourselves. Right? We're see once the program sits and Maybe doesn't necessarily care about why it's broken necessary. It just needs to reach a certain note to reach a certain It's not so much about the t constraints on each individual link So in the original request for adoption, I was looking at it more like that. About, hey, I just filtering Sid selection. Do reach ability, ignore the underlying p. Then now I see this as being one step further, which is invoke the underlying Ce from the actual fat definition and enforce that on your hop by hot basis. And that's from my perspective. Somebody reading that draft Cool. Thanks. Thanks. Z. Request you to be little shorten with your comments we are running little tight. Okay. This is a. Can you go one side back? I just want to go back to the problem statement. Got Yeah. I mean, if you look at this says very clear that there is in the current draft as and is an adopted work by the working group. There is an issue and it's really clear on the product statements. I think let's take that as the base is, and then we can discuss more. On the middle east. Sure Christian?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "Okay. Christian of queue. I think let's move ahead. So I think my suggestion to the authors would be, let's break it down a little bit and let's... Let's work offline, maybe Stefan, you be form a question to the working group. And let's try to get that feedback first. That is what are the two sets of our requirements clearly. Like let's focus only on the requirement first, and then we can focus on the solution. The good thing is I did not hear anybody object to it. That fat is not needed and this whole the new thing that we are bringing up is not needed. So that's pretty good. We are now debating about the previous requirement. In fact, whether that on its own makes sense or not, So hopefully, we will be making good progress on this. That's my hope. Thanks. Okay. I think that the some from these presentation. So we've, you know, modules there's any any other comments thank. Thank you. Thank you for listening and and. Thank you for all the. Thank Could you stop sharing? I'm not able to you. no. Go ahead, check. Okay. Cool. Thank you, everyone. So my presentation is about the piece sap extension for S seventy six, as you know that we just finished the login good last call. Few weeks ago. So Good news. Next, Next. Yeah. This page shows the overview of the s is six puerto extensions. As you know that we have a lot of basic features in S seventy six Right, and we have published a lot of I've. Right? As you can see in this figure. So P tension is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "nearly the last one. So good news is that we finally do the working group last point. So Yes. Good. So next, So the the current situation of this draft is that the working group last call is closed, but we still have a lot of commerce to be addressed. Right? So we think for the comments from, like, agent get yep and others, many thanks for your comments and and contributions. Yep. Thank you. Next. So, yeah, based on the comments we make some editorial modification between the that revision fifteen and and sixteen. Right? So we basically delete some redundant text we recognize the tags in introduction to make the logic more like clear. And we delete the early allocation things because it is not early am anymore. Right? Next. And by the way, we also added some allocation for seat verification errors because we find out that, we didn't have we didn't have this part in the draft. So we're align with as I'm peers we using the Air error code in these drives. Which has been defined in draft, chen Pc and and curious seek notification. So we moved that part from the the mentioned draft to this draft. So to avoid the dependency yet I mean, japan is a year. So thank you. Thank you for the orders of that draft. And a next step is really easy because we have some remained comments. Basically, they are functional comments"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "from, like, agent and Cad. So we have to adjust them So we like to hear wider the discussion of this kind of functional comments in the Middle and east. So if you have any comments, go to the middle at least. Thank you. So... Yeah, The the the go is very simple. We we have to move the draft to the next h as soon possible. Thank you. Next, Yeah. Thank you for the long term support. Thank you. Please use the face two facetime time if there is anything that we can do to resolve this comments. So yeah his here. Yeah. Kevin, I have mentioned your comments already. Yet. We can adjust an offline No problem. Anyone else? Okay. Thanks. Thanks. Mike are you online? I don't I don't see Can you hear me? Oh, yes. I can. I your name moved forward, So I was like, not able to find you. Yeah. Go ahead. I'll give you the slight control as well. Thanks. Hi everybody. I might go presenting this draft on behalf of the authors. So there's just some minor updates they did mostly editorial updates and I added one kind of statement slash section about the use of the rc record router object with the start policy. So to give some background, the Arrow is is an optional object Rc"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "It basically travels in the path and the Res messages. And it records kind of some additional information about the midpoint it records the ips of the midpoint and the key labels at the midpoint. And it's used typically when you enable F r on the on the tunnel? Because therefore ferrari needs to know the P label at the merge point. When it builds the back the bypass house. And... It's so used for loose hope expansion at the midpoint you have our Cpt Was a bunch of loose hops and you want to... And the head and wants to actually know how it extended So So the thing is that the R has no meeting in the As sr policy architecture. And I couldn't really find a way that, you know, you could really map put into there. So I believe, you know, I believe the statement should be kind of added it to the draft, that we should not use the arrow object. This one as are positive, if we if you have an a policy forces there's post architecture. You know, unless... And until we define exactly what the arrow means, in the entire policy, we should not signal it. So that's pretty much it. Hopefully, that's not too controversial for people. So other than that, the draft has been fairly stable and we can discuss whether it's ready for word group last call. I tried to clean up and to of remove some redundant stuff from there. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "Hopefully, it's close ready for last call. Thanks, Mike. That's it my presentation. Mike, can you go back to the previous slide? So to to the working group, I would request like, let's... There are two questions for me. First is whether is this the document the right place to document this especially because we have out c eight six six four, which initially without mentioning As sr policy, did came up with how we would carry an Sr part in in. And where the R is used because it's... We use the same messages same objects, whether it is Rs t or or R, So Is an optional message in our report messages in this case. So whatever clarification that we do, one is that it should be outside of sr policy architecture, that would be one thing that comes up to my mind, and then we can also discuss of the statement, whether we should say should not be carried or this So first is whether this is the right document, and then we can also discuss whether we agree with the suggestion which is there on this slide. So this will be the two questions that comes to my mind to anybody coming to the mic, maybe frame your answers based on these two questions if possible, and any other comment of course, welcome. I'm sorry, I missed your questions, but let me see what I wanted to see. So should not seems a bit extreme. Ara typically is used to convey the actual required information... Actual part of the Ls. So if you have If you have another speed that's up and running, and locally controlled and they are trying to delegate it. Implementations typically tend to passing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "currently installed path in an r. I mean there other means, I mean, you could add it as a inclusion incident in, but traditionally implemented the job. You start for that. So just to in the Rc P, the arrow is completely optional you can have an Rs t tunnel that never uses an... And it has an actual path. Understand. So if... But if you if you define it as kind of the existing path, If you use the arrow to signal the the current path, if you will, then that's not the correct interpretation of Are there are there are lots of is the do depend on the The. So implementations have traditionally used, even though it's perceived to be optional. There are lots of Well, for example, in the system functionalities that Warren work if you don't have... in the Cisco implementation, Right? So you can have by the default Rc doesn't use the arrow. So if you I understand. But I'm talking about implementations that are widely deployed. There are key functionalities that wouldn't work if there is no for But this is not about Adi. Right, But if you are going to your adding Mike, just let common complete and then take over. The only point and trying make is should not dispute extreme. I mean, may is fine adding a main letters. But you can respond? Yeah. Just wanna I just wanna make sure we we we understand that the arrow is is optional. Like, for example, the fifty. You can have a a a perfectly fine Lsd Right? That never uses the arrow at all. Right? So I I think it's already optional. Yeah. So I'm not sure how you can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "say that the... Like, you can... That you communicate the current path of the other using the arrow because the are itself optional. You cannot, you know, What about I mean, about ninety five percent of the deployments are there. Rely on the existence of. I'm talking about our implementations. For certain functionalities to work I mean, the were work but we don't have. I'm not saying though. So so it is it is for our... Let's... I think whether it's useful in ours you're not as not part of the. Right? So even though it's optional Rs, I would say implementation is broken if it doesn't signal, but let's leave it at that. Right? For Sr policies, If you're like... In the example I cited, If you have an Ls that's up and running, and locally control. And if you're trying to delegate that, you would need to pass in the current path used for Pc to take into account. You may argue that you could use I over or something like that, to passing but Irr again is not it's not an ordered list. So there are implementations that do look at what the actual path is, and in certain cases try to prefer that actual part. So from as a policy point of view, you'd still need I'm... The one I'm ready to make you still need a way to pass the actual part of the. You may have an implementation that wouldn't use it that I'm fine that. Saying should not seems extreme. Yeah. Go ahead. Oh, okay. Hello. This is Car from Huawei. And I have a question about owl of you you see you'll remove the from this draft and I I see was a pc"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "Pc calculate the past and download the the the pass e and maybe the yellow is in the format of the interface address arnold not address and but not the settlement Id You in this case, the had hud and of the as sr policy may translate may translate address to the segment Id this inside case a real pass maybe is different toys y. So in this case, how can we report real past... Talk controller is it turning the two update the... Yeah? Yeah. Just. It's enough to just use the e. You don't need another object with, like, a you know, like a copy and paste kind of semantics is the arrow. You just report it back the same arrow. Right. There's many kind of examples, I guess in in the draft. So like, you know, the the Pc would send them year You're and the the Pc client. The Pcc would respond with another arrow. That would be breaking I feel the existing rf overseas. But Adrian, you wanna comment in? Hi, Adrian Fe. I I have so many issues with this slide. So firstly, Obviously, R o has no meaning in the Our policy architecture, because the Sr policy architecture is not talking about signaling. However, there is a difference between the Sr path that is initially imposed on a packet"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "and the Sr path that is actually traverse by that packet. Because there may be said substitution they may be expansion. So there is a concept in the Sr policy architecture of the actual path. Now I appreciate there is currently possibly no way of conveying that information back to the Pcc in order that it could be reported on a p message. But that is ortho role to whether or not the concept exists. And if it were possible to get that information back to the Pcc, then surely, the Pcc would want to report that. To the Pc. So that suggests to me that there is a value in r for R. And then Speakers should not send the R roi object for an Sr policy. Well, should not embraces May. May requires that we specify what it means when it happens. If we're going to specify what it means when it happens, and maybe we wouldn't want should not. So I... I'm I think you either need to go to naught, or actually define what it means. And then that all takes me to The thread that drew I had on the list about and roads. And I don't want to block this work going forward, but I do think that a working group maybe needs to just take a little step sideways and talk about what we mean by And In Psa. Get that nailed down, and then we can push this forward much more quickly. Yeah. That's... I mean, that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "Definitely a good suggestion. We need to we need to think about what the ar means in the Sr context. But I I feel that you know, you you should not signal... You should not say that the is the actual us. Right? Because because I mean, by actual passing, like the current path of the Os. Right? Because like I said in the Rc world, it's completely optional. So you can have the... You can have it perfectly fine going without any that So how are you supposed to signal the current path that Ls if it doesn't have the arrow Alright. So this argument is not really resonating. And I think it's now moved to a territory that we need to do this on the mailing So let's continue. And I would bring back that question as well that we wanna this document Do you wanna that's why I bring up that this discussion do you wanna block your document because you feel discussion is important to you. I feel my personal opinion is this is beyond Sr policy because we have Rf c six six four. It's applicable to just Sr part as well It's a weird for us because in Pizza b, published an Rf before in Our policy architecture. Some people have only implement sr policy and that's fine. But at least from a standards point of view, we allow an Sr path to exist in imp without Sr policy combination that somebody could just send a piece of message that give me a sit doesn't give color doesn't give the rest of their our policy. This is something that we support. We can go and obsolete it if that's what the working group wants. But right now, till this exist, I think we have to respect this. So that's one opinion that I have, and I would like to get feedback from the group as well. But let's do that on the middle list. Okay. Thanks."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:19",
    "text": "Okay. Sure. Hi. My name is M Go Nokia, and I'm gonna present point motor to point as our policy. For the as well. Next slide, please. So just to give a letter bit the update, I think the main graph in the spring which is their replication segment or the replication seat. When just went through a bunch of updates and the last call is gonna happen. And I think after that, I did forgot to put slide that talks about all the other drafts that are gonna be following. But there are drafts in pe in best in Pc, of course. And these drafts are gonna go forward from implementation point of view. So the main objective that I have with this presentation is to give you guys a little bit of overview what we are trying to do. And if there is any concern, if there's is any comments, let's have this sooner than later. So when it comes to the implementation, from the vendor perspective I guess, there won't be too much of a hiccup Now from high level point of view, when it comes to the point to multi point policy, it's really Tc solution you can configure the configure these multi via Cli, but there is no underlying Ig or Bg that actually signals the point to multi point three So the Pc is the beast that we're gonna use for programming this replication segment and also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "if you will calling the binding seat on the route so you can grab traffic and push it into this point to multi point tunnel. If you will. Now when it comes for discovering the leaves throughout the network, we are not reinventing the wheel over there. There is already Rf c sixty five, fourteen and thirteen. That talks about vpn procedures we basically use those procedures and figure out where the leaves are. Or the route is And on the route, we send all that information and via Pc to the to the controller and the controller compute the tree and downloads it. Via these procedures I'm gonna talk about to the replication points. One thing that you gotta keep in mind is that because the Pc is doing all these procedures then the Pc can actually figure out that two replication points are dis joined meaning that the tree is this join and it's connected via a has a star domain, a has segment routing domain, and then you can connect those two replication points we are uni us, which is marrying the multi cast with uni gas as of now, most of the multi solutions out out there is either ingress replication, or whether it's a tree? From this draft going forward, the feel that marrying has some multi caps together would become very important, especially in the Is isps where they don't like to do multi cast protocol. So maybe we can solve that solution. Problem year two. Next slide, please. Now from object perspective, obviously, under route, you need to have some kind of a binding seed or some kind of a tunnel that can be presented on the roots. So you can use that to push multi cass stream"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "into this three and we call that point to multi point policy. Trying to keep it in line with the uni cast there is a bunch of canada paths with different preferences under the point of multi policy and the Canada path with the highest preference, obviously means becomes active, but if you ever want to optimize the Canada path, from the route to the leaves. They what we call the part instances think of it as actual point to multi point P. These are the ones that are actually the forwarding state of the multi caps belongs to these part instances and you can create multiple patent instances under the candidate path and do global optimization. Now that's one thing that is a little bit different with Uni gas. On the Uni side. You have candidate paths and there is no path instances. We just took it one layer of hierarchy below that and we created this patent instances for the tree to do global optimization. As I said, each part instance is really a point to motor Ls or or a triage holiday be because it can work with as R six as well. It's a tree and each one of these trees are actually programmed on the data pad what they call a replication segment. So basically, a replication segment an incoming seat with a bunch of outgoing interfaces and the seeds that are gonna represent and identify the downstream replication segment one point I wanna bring up again, as you can see in this diagram, the two replication segments can be dis joined and be connected via as which we feel is a very important concept and powerful concept in this point to multi multiplying as our policy. Next. Next"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "now when it comes to the the objects on the Pc really created two type of object, and this is where the bolt and nuts comes in, and we we would like to get your opinions on it. Before we start the implementation. There is the point to multi point policy itself. Again, think of it as a binding seed or a a policy that is identified on the route that you can use to push the multi stream into the tree. And then there is a replication segment object, which is really the multi casa state on the replication notes. The point of multi policy, obviously, we try to reuse some of the stuff on the unit gas like association lease to associate multiple candidate pat self we kind of update the the ls object made it point to multi point Ls object So that point of multi multiplying ls object is really identify via the root and the three Id. So each tree can be identified to throughout the network uniquely with that point to multi point object. And we also added instance Id. That part instance that you were saying previously, to it that you can identify the tree uniquely. There's a bunch of endpoint list that just a debugging tool that you can figure out where the leaves are on on this on this tree. With regard to the replication segment, we did get some feedback back and we brought in the Cci object. So this Cci object is really identifying the cross connect, the the multi casa itself. The incoming seat is part of the Cci object. So the incoming seat identifies the multi on the data path that is part of the Cci object and gets program. And on the outgoing interface, we are using the multi pad"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "for redundancy and resiliency, but really the next hops and the outgoing interfaces are presented via the. So really, you can think about it, and there packet. There are Pc examples in the draft. The Cci object is wrapping multiple that are presenting the outgoing interfaces. I don't think I'm missing anything else. That's the main two objects. So one other thing that I wanna add is that on the route, you could really have the point to multi policy downloaded with the replication segment object so you can configure on the route, your point to multi policy with their replication segment, via are a single message just saving some Pc messaging back and forth. Next slide please. Think next slide is next equity. One comment on this slide. I think I would request you to review the Rb f from existing piece documents because some of the terms him makes very little sense. What we call is as b o policy object, looks like you are trying to define a new message, and I don't think so you are trying to define a new piece of message. Because of the common header on the top and the way that you have describe the P two p policy is a collection of Sr... S sr object So it's not an object. B two m p policy. I don't think so an object. E objects means a very particular thing in the context of P. And the way this Rb, we have always kept backward compatible as well, from our existing messages. So just be a little bit of attention to an existing Rb in existing rf, and make this a little cleanup. Because right now it's a bit of a mess. Sounds good. Yeah. We are not trying to. Because it's not really either. Like, you can see the bunch of issues as not gonna compile. So we have to... And we have had faced issues"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "the past people remember, with without Rb and f grammar, so we don't wanna to make more mistakes here. The learning care right this thing is a little bit steep. But alright. Receive. Any comments? Otherwise, we are running a little tight, and we'll move to the next you thank. So last presentation in segment routing part of our agenda circuit start policy. Samuel you are Yes. Go ahead. Yeah. Hi. Somehow else open francisco again. I'll be build about pc of extensions for sickle style august It was been in the past, So I will appreciate release that current Well, next slide. Well the the route is extending pizza to subjects for requirements so connection oriented policies also considered also called super style as our policy very second to be this part of the spring working reopening this is the increase that to information about without that means Pcc can specify Visa report and where it should not be completely. Second piece of extension you very to specify strict of these eight files for the the up next. I'll just answer to be careful to in Generate days. So we did notes successfully and extension can be used any other Next slide, you You have control now? Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:13",
    "text": "For walking parts. Computation where early and minimize not lot of communications. If is included this is not supposed to a part even the better least in the proposal. Pcs you know if kinda goes be those invalidate. It is still to documentation explicitly. Before you reset, then password should not we won't be updated you maybe release not anymore. And finally, yes, So follow forms up computations computation explicitly. No second part of the is existing Object for cellular. Will least it was filed only for other Cp and it it is in in similar for for state. Speech for P or. The four can be used to request to sleep up moves. We also qualify to both strict partners, first like in as well. So we try to be filing it in the future but we also explain how we risk should be that that it's So we've speak probably requested And thanks for listening getting comments and questions are lockdown down stable for some supplying with no changes So why the work was for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:03",
    "text": "Thanks, Samuel. Any comments any feedback from Spring working group that you would like to share? I don't think so. We if I know correctly, there no major to to the afternoon spinning working I can see. Wants two one thing I like to comment on to the can group here pc is that the and techniques use. All the graph is written with the contact set, but d construct is generic. Across. And the use this generic. It's not tied up with this circus style. So I think there is this application between spain and and this because the use cases is gone. Across the use cases is for other use cases like say that we did the bai work here. So this is similar to that. So it's is good beyond that. Okay. So let's move to the next presentation. So we are moving too state part of our agenda and with B is Marina online if you do I see her? Yes. Hello. Hi, Ben. We have sasha here as well. So anytime you wanna jump in, go ahead. I'm presenting this work on behalf of the authors, my colleagues Marina and only."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:05",
    "text": "Is it better? Yes Okay. Hi. I'm presenting this draft on behalf of my colleagues Marina and This draft actually is an from our point of view personal point of view, this draft augment the draft that has the work draft document that has already been presented here that allows set up of candidate parts for and the segment trials policy. Using Pc. And? Next, please. Segment trials and policies comprised of multiple candidate parts. And the assumption is that the policy uses the candidate live kinda possible the highest preference on may been multiple going that it password with the highest preference. And load balancing sync. In order to note that, the head of the policy has to understand which candidate path life or not. And one of the popular ways to achieve this is seamless B. Which has been standardized in Seventy eight eighty And can they apply to used with Ip before Ip six and plus. Specifically specific interest behind this draft was exactly as I said, provide to provide the pc see with to to provide the head of the our policy that is set up with participation of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "enable seamless on angela task to monitor their loudness. The document this requires extensions to pieces that are to enable seamless for this bus and to configure the part siemens parameters. These extensions are applicable to all past set of types applicable to segment trials positive use segment routes and computer, so sr six, and facilitate negotiation of seamless Beauty capabilities enabling and disabling seamless video on specific pass. And setting the parameters of specific sessions. Next, please. The extension is include they seamless capability be which can be carried in the open by the p of speaker. In an open message. So the... To indicate that they piece of speaker support seamless capability. Here is the structure. Would be flare this is said by the speaker that is capable of similar Business. And supports configuration of this session by a piece of Next, please. Another object the another addition new till we can be carried on the space be subject. Which enables or disables specific seamless decision for the specific"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "and until using the big flag and carries additional optional opportunities which below our configuration of the next necessary parameters of the session. Next, please. This tl Hello. Configuration of the minimum interval and Multiplier which is techno supplier which define how the seamless detects. Trailer of the bus, Another one allows to configure the remote of the stimulus session. Next, please. The sync is quite unusual. They tears must degree that they're both capable of using similar speed and then the piece speaker may send the seamless bp detailed be towards the the other peer. To report the state to for the configure the display or enable or disable decision. Send This a report message, the Pc shall send attendee it or update message. When the flag in this message is said to one, then shall be in accelerated for the. Or active if this report. Next, please. There are several error conditions identified with regard usage of this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:04",
    "text": "And the authors have defined for new error values so to be added to the registry. Next, please. I think that's so last. Okay. The authors this is the zero zero revision. So they also solid solicit feedback from the work group. And we me and then we'll proceed according to the comments received. All like of this? One point that I would like to add which is not mentioned in the presentation There is a working in implementation. Of this mechanism ...unfortunately, So far, where cannot actually test which have tried to test its interoperability both. Capability negotiation. Is performed It fails for those reasons, but that's... And that's it. Okay. I have a question. For the B is only used on the head end of the as a policy So I think it's the tour negotiate negotiations B d parameters of information with the controller. And then I think we can reuse the use we can configure the fd parameters on the head and use the social object and zen just list the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "message. So I... Because if we're if we parameters parameters to extend and it will mix the the the protocol very. And the in other, such Bg, I define the template of the that letter is the same or as of object and we can fly a lot of a lot of a group of parameters in we just needed to Id. The terminate Id also Id user protocol. Then this is... Maybe very simple. And the controller than to know information of the B d parameter meter and I think because control destiny does result of the does state... We can use the data to give to feed the back through the controller. I think just send this to the mailing list as well. I think let's take that discussion on the willingness list In fact it was discussed there were multiple options we do this with Ls or define a new association, maybe search on the archive list as well. And maybe start the discussion there again. On this point on how to achieve this. Andrew you Can you be little quick, please? Yep. Just a minor last. Really do quite like this work, primarily in the context of reporting state. I find the use case of actually informing the Pc that there is b and it is enabled on an is really quite useful. And for reading the draft, the Tl v format it read pretty clear and it's been pretty straightforward to me. So Thanks for this work. Andrew. Also which other working groups maybe John, you have any thoughts on it?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "Like, which other working groups we should notify about B, maybe sending to B as well as to Mp. Or Yeah. I mean, D itself seems like a no brainer. Mp. I hadn't really thought it through. I guess we can we can discuss it offline. I wouldn't hurt. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Jay You are next? Good afternoon. Everyone. Okay. This is jed from Huawei. And I'm going to give a presentation Savvy extensions for network resource partition on behalf of my causes need here. Okay. Sank next slide. A little bit about the background. Network resource partition or audit it and is the subset of the network resources. For example, it can be buffer queuing or scheduling resources in the non network. This concept has been introduced in the it framework in his and it can be used as network construct. To support the services. And for Pc, Pc protocol, a pc solar may be requested to compute a t pass within an. And you may also provide a tea with and specific information for the past or update. In this document, we introduced each extensions to carry information in the piece of messages so that we can use it for and not specific constraints and information needed in the past competition past update, past data's report and has initiation. Okay. Next, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:04",
    "text": "So here some information about the history of the documents. Use to be to similar documents on this topic drop down and the drop shoe and just by the working group chairs, the authors of most documents had some discussion offline and now create to produce a merge document. So this is a current draft. Okay. That's slide. So some more details about the in this document Basically, we introduce a new an Tl in the Spa object and this format is joining the figure we have it has an Id, which is thirty to bit identifier and the flat field a reason for few to use. And also have some optional tl to carry additional and specific constraints or information for the future use cases. Next slide, please. And we also introduced a new capability called Nav capability. It is consist of the list of flags. Currently, one bit is defined as the d When start by the Pcc eight in indicates that the Pcc support encapsulation of the data Id in the packet. And when is start by the Pc, it introduced that to Pc as supposed to provide a past competition result with in Bid. Okay. That's slide. So some more information about the procedure, can provide an another pass competition So in this case, an should be carried in the Object of the p set. Pc request message to indicate constraint for competition."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "And following are the detailed procedures, and I will not go through the details due to the time limit. And next slide, please. And it can be used for an nav specific cost update and report. In this case, it may be included in the pc update message to indicate and not in which the Tc he passed me to be updated. And we also consider the our issues when there's an Id carries message, it does not match with another of the existing tea pass. So this steve unchanged and error code should be sending in the pc repo message. Okay. In next slide. And for the ana nap specific past initiation this Tl should be carried in the Pc initiated message and it depends on the value in the applicability. So he you should use either the nav specific result, the data play and rp id. In the construction and is construction of the t pass. There's also some error conditions we can see in the in a dropped. Okay. We I will not go to the details here. That's slide. So for the next steps, we would like to this it feedbacks on merge document. And the content actually the content of the draft has been stable. Also so those drugs have been presented several times in the previous sessions. So here, I will also like to as whether it's gonna be ready for the adoption. Thank you. Any comments? One simple suggestion would be, like, mark the... That this document replaces the the two documents yeah. Yeah. Like, when you search for now you get little too many. Yeah. It'd be good too."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "Have a clarity, which is the latest document. May need your help to yeah do the. Sure. Thank you. So let's now move to the miscellaneous but we start with be as update to piece suppression Hello. My name Sc as you'll note, the name of the draft has changed as a result. A comment that we received. Actually in the net con group where we're trying to progress a draft that is very similar much to this. So next slide? And this is the only slide. So hopefully won't take too much time. Basically, we're trying to maintain alignment with the draft over a net comp which basically how to describe how to do was was trying to figure out how to do net comp over tls one point three, but in the working group us call. They were like, hey that's great. But, you know, what do we do with one point two and one point three? So we decided to align with R c ninety three twenty five, which is now a Bc, which basically tells you how to do that. So that's that's pretty much the big change that was going on in the draft. So the idea is that it says basically, you find a tls one point two as you do it as is specified in Bc ninety five. And if you support Tls one point three, well due tls one point three. So it kinda of provides a little little guidance there. And so in terms of doing the updates and things happen, like obviously, it's a better title because it's not just it's not just two one point three. It's actually recommendations for both. So I just updates for Pcp Pc Eps. And then one of the other little things is that the mandatory implement cypher suites originally in Tls one point three would never get through the Ice"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "now. So we update to be something that's slightly more robust and provides for security and the nice thing is the this selection of cypher suites actually sets you out for Tls one point three because it uses the same constructs. So it's kind of like forward thinking. And we did a little work we're working on security iterations to be a little more prescriptive. I will tell you that at the net con group session that was right before this, that was basically no comments and they're looking to redo a working group last call just because we changed the name the title on the scope of it, but basically, there was no comments against it. Really, the only question for this draft basically is that we're kind of waiting for working group adoption. And the question is whether the priorities are right and this should be moved up to be quicker to align better with the Yang modules that are included. And I'll kinda leave that to the working group to decide. So we want to take comments. I would like to try to see if we can maintain alignment with these, but I'm perfectly willing to take inputs and bash things around. Cedric. Hey, Sean it's Adrian. This is great. And I hope the working group can just flip it through. It's. Not like it's a million pages long. No. It's quite short It's it's literally, like, I think six paragraphs and most of them are like, boiler plate. Right. If I was a pre implement, And I wanted to run P over tls one dot three. Could I just Are there two that's one dot three public out there I can just... Absolutely. You pick you pick a coding language that you would like and they are available. Oh. Hopefully, you're not doing it for. But. Yeah. It's publicly available it's use. It's widely implemented. It's actually... One of the reasons why it's so actively implemented is that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:03",
    "text": "you know, it's it's used with quick. And it's h p three and that's all the rage and so there's lots of people are out there working on. Now there's some question about open a cell and how long it will take to get in. That implemented, but there are multiple stacks that do support you could actually get out and do it. You you'd have to know what you're doing, but hopefully, if you're doing If you're doing the programming at this level that you kinda know what you're done. So So alright. So what I heard was make it go faster. So I'll leave that to the chairs to discuss. Thank you. I'm one of the quarter, so I will let Julian take it maybe we'll discuss, but thanks for the feedback from the room. Just a reminder, this document came to P because of a comment in the piece young document and piece doc document is gonna go to working group last... It's already post working group last calls. So we are just waiting for chair, go ahead. So I preferred if we adopt this document when the document goes to it looks like there's a better alignment within the working group on the progress that we are making with Tls one point three, so that's my personal opinion with not the chair hat, and I'll will let Julian take the call. Thank you. Julian, do you wanna say something now or should we just do the offline? We can request the show hands right now. Since we at it. Yeah. Sure. We have the power. So people who are not logged in, to maybe use this time to log in to the qr code while I frame the question, make sure that you logged in so that you can also use the tool. I'm gonna just should we move the working group. An option for this... Okay. Oops oh, you did it. Thanks. So the police is online."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "Yes. If people have trouble there, maybe you can raise the hand as well. Otherwise, we'll prefer it's one one tool. That's always easier. The idea is to get to but first to look at it. In any case, we will resume the on the reading missed whatever happens. So And if somebody has an objection and what come stated in the mic, please feel free. We see at least one do not raise hand. Okay. But that's completely fine. Thank you. And I'll let you take the call. Yeah. So to me there is a clear support at this stage, so we will Send the question on the mailing list. Thank you everyone. Thanks. So next is peter. I think we made up quite a bit of time. So use your time and people have questions. Please feel free. Thank you. Amazon today, I would like to do the about Pc see expenses for B t on behalf of auto clause. Next, please. Yes, this document best five two the his p that allowed state for Pc to compute and the initiated to pass both of Beauty next, please. Yes. This is the technicians. So we just to will next yes, we have do the priorities and times. With us."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:03",
    "text": "Yes. This is the update. Based on the comments from the It of meetings, we add the referee to I've eight six two three, and add a use case of... I would checked to functions and add address the object to identify the beer tea packs. Next, please. This is the release with other Zero are four drafts. To Pc peers. Now. The first is is the ones that we have we we do the priorities in today. Would asked it just specifies the extension to Pc that a lot of his he to compute and in this pass for the beauty mainly fox on the past calculate calculation of beta t and as a controller this to built a Beauty pass to the. The second one is folks on the central as an area a new mechanism where Pc allocate the peer information. And a use Pc to this distribute build to our notes. B t It also focused on the a scenario. And it a new mechanism we Pc. And they use to distribute them to our notes. And the last is dr leaf. He's based of his it contains the like extensions of Pci beer. Next please?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:06",
    "text": "For comments were come and we would like to call four doses. You know this draft we have do many times priorities and and it has to it it is the world in time. And so we think it is worst able to cover That's all. Thank you. Any comments? Any feedback from beer working group that you would like to share? Yes. We have received some feedbacks and And if I think it is okay should add the Pc. Sorry. For appear but I I have said the our draft only fox sounds b and way rename change the name to reflect it. Thanks. Thank you. I think I'll I'll take an action item to maybe talk to b chairs as well. Thank you Is this stuff the way, also to the that is the bureau working group Okay? Thank you. So last presentation, we have that that Okay. I'm trying inform my presentation today"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "is a piece extension for the and latency. Last slide, please. We are running little shots so be very very quick to the point. Okay. Sorry for the k. Okay. We may... Mainly introduced updates from the nasty version. We presented this draft at one hundred and fourteen And thank you for the comments from the meeting and to the main list from the roof andrew low end jones and this updates from nasa versions. First of we a ny to longer reduce of the requirements draft which proposed scaling death requirements and and and way we I which this way work, and this work is still go andrew we also lie with the net date field and this work also, we are being discussed in tesla labs and the design team. And we made some clarification for to get the latency capability by the Ig extensions and we change there the extensions from to the pass object And their finally we add a rake cash for esther to collaborate with this work. Night. Okay. We have many proposed updates and we we are line with the progress with the routing and the temp terminology and the queue information from the we would like to get some feedback about the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "extension, meaning about the press about in under that letter, processing. So comments and suggestions, are very welcome. We have to take this in the next. Sorry for or going over six minutes? Sorry for folks from the next working especially. So let's use the mailing list. Take this very good meeting. Thanks everyone, enjoy a week. Thank you. Thank you Bye."
  }
]
