[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:00",
    "text": "Yeah. Getting also from the agenda, the message is Yeah. Thank you. Okay. Time, Yep. Good afternoon. Welcome to the PGP, open PGP working group session. We are your co chairs. I'm Daniel. Steven still. I think we want we have, like, the some kind of status, administrative, and bit of reports, on the drop. So we wanna try to get that done at about 15 minutes and then to vote the rest of the time to those quantum mold offulness and then if time permits, there's a HKP preview, I guess, there's something at the end, the fundraise. So, Daniel's gonna run through the chair slides next. Yeah. Are you are you driving or am I driving? Okay? I'll I'll stand up just to better visibility? For that. Okay. So, this is the note. Well, we are on Thursday. So you've probably seen this before, but this tells you, a a a we're not at the no well. Okay. It's Powerpoint karaoke here. The note, well, I'll tell what to expect. You're at the IATF. Hopefully, you've read this by now. If you haven't, please read it. The next slide is recommendations for hybrid meetings. If you're remote,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "We wanna make sure that you can participate well. If you can't hear us please give a shout. We'll be monitoring the Zulu chat as well. If you need things, set at the room and you can't speak, But please put yourself in the queue even if you're here in person. Next next next this is a reminder about, treating each other well. Hopefully, you've seen this as well, just to, let's keep the conversation simple. Next. This is the agenda Steven just mentioned. We'll have a little bit of to cover just make sure people are aware of what's happened in the crypto refresh. Since the last meeting. A quick status about the re chartering. And then, we'll move to a discussion about post quantum cryptography. Stephen said, in any other business part, we might have a discussion about HKP if we have time. Don't know that we will, but we'll see what we get to. So let's do the crypto refresh unless anybody wants to bash the agenda. Anybody wanna raise any points, concerns about what's gonna transpire here. Not seeing anybody. Can go the crypto refresh. So there have been 2 drafts released, since ATF117 without a much concrete substantive change. These are mostly cleanup bits. Thank you to the area director for, feedback that helped us do some cleanup and then a bunch of other folks from the working group have given small edits and review. The editor Paul fixed a bunch of the errata, in ways that are noncontroversial. I'm not gonna walk through each of these specific pieces, but this is just a reminder for what changed. If you've been following the list, if you've been following the draft, you can see those changes, Again, there's not real substantive changes, just mostly clean up and clarification about what we're trying to do."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "Particular note for implementers is that there's this upgrade steps appendix now. If you are looking at implementing this and you haven't looked at that upgrade steps, I recommend to take a look. It should make it easier to do the upgrade. Next slide. we have a proposed charter. The Sorry. Probably just worth saying that the ATF last call was started funny, our steamed Barrier Director, who's great? And that's ongoing. I can't remember when it finishes, I guess, in a week or 2 or Yeah. So, It's it's progressing. Sorry. So, yeah, for the recharging, we we had an interim question about re chartering specifically, the result is got some new charter text, which has been proposed. It's in the GitLab repository. If you have access to these slides, you click the link to get there. We had a a prioritization poll on the mailing list about the range of topics people brought up. People had an opportunity to rank the topics about things that they were interested in and willing to and to review. And the result of that poll is that we've identified about 4 likely, initial topics. The thing that had the most interest from the group was post quantum cryptography. Which is why that's what we'll be talking about here. The new charter is not yet gone through process to be our actual charter. Right? No. I think we have, we've offered some texts to to Rowan and there's some button pushing needed and I guess it's a busy week for him. So Roman, why aren't you prioritizing us over everything else? Are are we reorganizing sick to get 3 eighties or split the area? No. So to answer the, the, the, the 2 questions. So first, working for blast call on open PGP ends on 19th. Just as a process reminder, that's because typically it would be a 2 week last call, but when you have the meeting, the meeting time is subtracted from the the last call at a time, so it it may feel longer than an actually is."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "Still plenty of opportunity to provide feedback. Yes. I have the charter I wanna look at it kinda one more time and then procedurally, what I'll I will do if if I'm stuff I'm kinda comfortable with it, is I put it in the data tracker, after that, I schedule it for a telechat, the first telechat, we could do that on for initial ISG review is November 30th. That's the next one up and then it goes to the community and then it'll come And so there may be some tweaks from our YES feedback or That's right. Feedback that happens. I I think in the meantime, we're kind of safe to assume that we can go ahead and and start PQC in any way, optomistically. Absolutely. I mean, again, since we're not adopting any of these drafts, we're just talking and kind of refining them where we're clear to talk about any of those things So there there is interest in adopting the drafts, and we have a scheduled milestone for November, I hear you saying November 30th is the earliest that the telechat will happen. And it won't become the new charter until we until after the telechat. Right? No. No. It's actually gonna take even longer than Right. I'm saying that's the earliest it could possibly be with such a is the telechat. Has to it has to be longer than that. No. There's actually 2 challenge ads. Yeah. So there's initial review, which is the 11 30th. That's literally just the next possible kind of day to put something on, then it goes to IETF the IQF last call community review. So that's 2 more weeks that it has to get put on a telletcha after that. So theoretically, if everything went, everyone kinda loved it, it's the soonest would be I think there's a teljat, the 3rd week in December, that would be the the the soonest it it could be it could happen. We're not gonna adopt any drafts in the working group that are outside of our current charter until that date, at the earliest day. That that would be best practice to do that. Yeah. Okay. My own dates are fictional. Alright. Well, maybe we we could we could still maybe adjust these milestone dates to be slightly less impossible. Given given that scenario. They're all fiction. Okay. So Right. So the the prioritized topics are post quantum cryptography. The supersede keys draft."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "Which we don't have a draft for, but the Super City Keys work, which is an attempt to indicate an upgrade path without having to drop your old keys for backwards compatibility. Persistent secret keys, which I think meant present symmetric secret keys. And then, WKD or HKP, some sort of network network access up, update. So I think I want to cut over to, the, interop review of, We have some interop of the version 6 of the stuff in the crypto refresh draft. Much of implementation. So, yeah, I used to I think is, gonna give a a report back on the interrupt from the refresh. Right. Hello. I'm Eelstos. I'm working on Sequaya PHP. This is actually my first in person, idea, and I'm having a blast. So next slide, please. So we've been doing end up testing for 4 years now. And we have around a 100 tell the tests. And every time I run the test suite, I feed around 1 K5 vectors into the implementations. The way we do that is we have an abstract, kind of common interface to open BGP implementations nowadays. It's called SOP And we are also planning to standardize that in the IDF. It has been very successful and a lot of fun. Honey box, and We do nowadays have, basic specific tests So we have the test vectors from our upcoming. Drafted, draft, or upcoming standard, And we also asked implementations to generate these 6 keys. Some of them do that and support that. And A lot of that is done in the a main test suite already, and you can find that. And if you there's a little search bar. If you type in V6, it will show you the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "basic specific results, or there was a different, result where I only include the V Six specific tests. And there, I also include know, work in progress implementations, Next slide, this at IETF, 116 where I gave this kind of talk, I had to present you with this depressing graphic, graphic, Bara. You know, we only saw a bouncy castle implementing rn2, Next slide, please. And now I'm very happy to to read this kind of graph where we see all major own B2B implementations Other than. Implementing at least partially V6. And I think this shows a very successful, you know, work in progress implementation status. Next slide, please. And if you want to join the fan, as always. So just test, get in touch, review tests, you're gonna chip in with, test suite development And if you do happen to implement an BTP implementations, Please do implement SOP. And keep it up to date. Tell me how to get it. Tell me how to keep it up to date and you know, there's the the sub dash dash profile feature, which is kind of new. Is important for for me to tell you implementation to actually implement or generate V Six artifacts, And, yeah, That's it. Thank you. Any questions for just a sum a drop or a sup or Thanks. Did you put the chair signs back? Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "So, next up, we're gonna talk about the post quantum crypto, proposal. And I just wanted to preview these questions for the working group, to think the discussion here is going to look at A a draft that we have version 3 of that Aaron and Falco and other folks have at and done some implementation work for. So the questions for the working group to think about our, well, first off, I wanna make sure people have read it, where we are we doing along the implementation? When you're looking at the draft, think about whether the algorithms that are there or the things that that, you think we should have? Are they parameterized sensibly? Do we need, all the schemes that are there? And do we want to proceed with a single draft, or we want to break them out in separate draft, Think about the wire formats, think about the binding, whether this needs to be bound to V6 or these are questions that I think the working group needs to think about. You may come up with other ones. So That's just a a preview of the things that I think you should be thinking, and I think I'm gonna move to the the presentation. On These are the these are we'll look at the sub milestones for it. Okay. So we're gonna come back Yeah. We'll come back to that. We can come back to these questions after the presentation if or just brace them here here here here So Yeah. We really have a question is that that fast. You have a fancy new title in front of your name? Yes. I do have a new fancy title. Thank you. This was also happened to be my master thesis, 5. Part of it, like, to draft one version of this. And it's it's it went through. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "Yep. Thank you. Now we, So we have, brief update about what has changed in the last version since since version 2. And also, we have Well, a formal request for adoption of the post quantum draft. Next slide is Sure. Okay. Next Nice. So This is the where you can find draft in case you're interested to read it to give the feedback and to answer to DKG's questions that I think are very, very well post post post post Next slide? Yep. Next. Okay. So this, you might have already seen it. He's pro pretty much the same slide since a few ETFs. And, what we have right now is this twelve 14 call points were We have a Kaibou and lithium that is now called mlcamandml DSA. Hybrid with curves. Some curves, like the mask curves and the shoot are the ones from the CFRG and the others are for compliance. And finally, we have Sphinx Plaster. It is now, SLHDSA. As should implement with 2 different to different underlying caches. Next slide. And Sphinx Plus is further parameterized. Which 6 different parameters for each version, going from the slowest to the so so for the, in the most compact to the fastest as well as having, as well as having, like, the 3 different security levels. Next slide. Next slide. Okay. So as of now, we have the following bindings."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "For signatures, we require to have these 6 keys. And the 6 signature signature packets. And the reason is that they not only they implement the the salt that is required to maintain the same security level, like, the V Six signatures have a prefix sold. It depends on the hashing algorithm, and that ensures that, we need the lower security guarantee on the hash function as much as things plus also. Internally does. This is not the only reason I person, I think that there's also the reason that, if someone implements the 6 save changement. OS Quantum, they will also have implemented the latest version of the draft. And therefore, we're not adding additional Burton, Burton, instead when it comes to encryption, since it's more urgent, least we deem it more urgent. What we thought is to relax this requirement also to be for So we do not allow older keys to work with, post quantum, but you can already use V3, PKSKs. The we use the single state do not include the the Cypher algorithm ID into the into the V One SEIPD. What we do is that the V Four key, also limits the the the algorithm to AES as much as the X25519 and for 48 is done in the next slide. Again. And this is, our, let's say, main point today, what we would like is to ask for adoption of this draft. As a single book, book, for a few reasons. 1st of all, We think that the industry wants, like, the fact of having 2 different"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "draft 2 or more different drafts. 1 for SLHDSA, one for, the the the lattice space And the reason is that We want to have a single, like, compliance point, you say I am post quarantined compliant, and this is the drafted specifies how to be post quarantine compliant. OpenPGP is slow in adopting drafts generally in a in adopting standards generally and having 2 transition periods pretty much, require us to Well, work for the next several years in order to get there. Instead, maybe with one draft, we might pull it off a little bit quicker in the implementation side, even though this might require more time from the standardization point of view. Then SLHDSA is fairly well understood. We want to standardize it as stand alone as much as also lamps seems to be doing the MLDSA in composite with, the traditional algorithms is also recommended from several European Countries. Several regulators, and we are implementing only the composite version. So there's no kind of attack. I stripped out one signature and I use it to verify alone because the algorithm ID is hash into the into the signature itself. So the algorithm ID completely specifies the 2 different, algorithms that are used, and the two keys cannot be separated. As well as we want to have already right now long term signatures even though quantum computer may seem to be still far away, especially for software signing, it might be convenient to start now with this transition. That's it. If you have any question, Please. Mike is open."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "Can we go can we go back to the So it's, you know, this It's kinda cute. Was gonna propose to go back to the list of, open questions for the for the room, but but, yeah, She's got feedback. I I also have a question on this slide. Yeah. So Yeah. I'll Mike Ellsworth, I'll come up and do the I guess mandatory question and then self answer it maybe. You go back to the list of algorithms? Sure. Yep. Yeah. So I just for the for the minutes for the recording here, I think this obviously needs alignment across all of the the TLS, the s mine, the all of the should make the same choices I'm giving a talk on Friday at Pequip, which attempts to summarize the state of this alignments across all working groups. One question that's come up this week that should be probably discussed across all working groups is there's no, 512 elliptic curves in here. So I think we probably Like, I yeah. I you and I have talked, and so this is a line between lab in OpenPGP, but white for y256@leveloneand 3 and then 384. I, like, is a choice? I think that's still open, maybe. So this was a choice that was actually originally, we had 512 bit curves. And then, or 521, and then this was changed into this into this version, later on. I mean, everything is still open. So, like, this draft is a personal draft if the working group decides to adopt it, you'll get to take this decision. Like, you can argue about it. The argument we have is that elliptic curves are fallback here. And we think that this is also the alignment that is given from, the from ND NSA to see CNS. It's called the There's there's some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "guideline recommendations from them. They also match them like this. There's there's actually government documents that help with this alignment. Yep. Well, then we should reference them. Yeah, if you can have those link, send those links to me, that would be helpful. Yeah. I mean, it's I have to say this is after all is a decision that different people came up with different matchings. We think that It's mostly a since it's a fallback, having just 384512 is is at least in my opinion, a bit silly because, 6 is probably the one that is the most deployed in hardware and most available in software already. So excluding 256 would be a bad decision and between 512384 yeah, it could be the lower security with 256 and it has security with 512. I don't really have a a big preference there. The other question is whether at all we should keep all of these 6 algorithms as the KGS before. So maybe we want to limit Dick, compliance to only one algorithm and, like, to say, okay, one needs in one brain pool. And at that point, question is which one? With with with which dilithium or which Kaiba. So all of these questions are still open. You're still welcome to to to to challenge this matching And but So far, the, also, practical results we had with implementations, a note we have. As of Sunday, 2 interoperable ish implementations. And, Also, the the measurements I've taken in in actual usage they seem good. So I don't see any problem with this, much, I'm I'll ask I have one unrelated question to start. So to to, just on a on a point you made. I mean, I guess it's it it will be a thing. I think there was with the working group as to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "Does this working group have the opinion that all working groups should be picking the same things here. SSH, for example, is not counted. Not an SSH work group, but the SSH protocol is make has made different choices So that's that's something we'll have to check. I mean, at some clearly, at some level libraries of implementation algorithms, we'll need to have commonality some methods will be coming Whether code points across working groups and protocols are common is an open question for now. I think And and there's also there's a question of whether talking about how do you align the two pieces of any paired composite And then there's a question of, which paired composites are you actually going to do? Right? It could be that Lamp says we wanna do We wanna have 25 Boyd's, at OpenPGP says, we actually want 3oids. And and as long as they're the the they're from a subset of that one. Maybe the maybe that's the alignment that you care about. Yep. So Yeah. I I can't imagine TLS using sphinx plus. For instance, Okay. You you had another call? Yeah. So my next unrelated question, I am going to ask the question so it's out in the air even though I think it's a bad question. Mhmm you are not specifying them at lattice schemes independently, only in composite. Yeah. And I personally agree. I think that's a prudent decision, but it does mean that there's transition in eventually, a transition out when we wanna move to single algorithms. Maybe maybe eventually in the future. Correct. So OpenpGP has a huge legacy burden Like, you can't really deprecated things quick and fast. Would probably stick with, being able to parse PSA signatures forever. And, therefore, we already have all of these curves. In our fruit to refresh draft. Is not that by drop, like, if tomorrow we come up with a new code point of this Kuiper 1024 only. We can do it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "Wheat's gonna be it can be another draft. In 5 years from now, in 10 years from now. And at the same time, brain pull curve will already be there in implementation. So it's that does not add complex. Like, a huge burden Sure. But I guess I guess the transition out part depends on Yeah. A quantum computer actually existing kind of. Yeah. Because And and also Until that's until that's clear, why would you take way that And also whether dilithium is even still single winner, maybe by then we'll have the on ramp star, who knows what we wanna transition out onto. So I did, I did have one other question for you, Aaron. Mhmm so here you have kind of 22, top level bullets Yep. Yep. And I think the draft kind of argues for the for both, essentially. Yes. And my question is, do you see attention between those 2 top level bullets? That put it in quick and simultaneous, not this particular So first of all, I think as far as understood, nist still, I mean, nist still has to come out with the official info, let official draft for this, the official standards for ML Cam SLH TSA and all of them. So the thing is anyway before approximately 6 months, we won't have this, we won't have these standards. And I can't imagine any way to open BGP committee being faster than 6 months into going into working group last call for this draft. Given that we're gonna adopt it maybe in December. Regarding is that internal contingents, whether, like, everyone likes the the algorithm we proposed. For sure, I See, I see some criticalities for each one of them. So for the stateless hash, whether we want to have a sub perimeter parameterization is my opinion, an open question. And if not, how many code points do we want to allocate for that. Betty's 12 at least in my opinion are a bit too many."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "For the elliptic curves, which elliptic curve do we want to use? That's also an open question for both dilithium and kite And as well as whether we want to use Let's say, whether nest relaxed any binding with Kyber or the latest differences between Kyber, the round 3 submission and ML Cam, also, it's it's, it's an open question. And So, like, I would say, clearly, the draft, the a single draft will go as low as the slowest of the 3. But I think anyway, We can't call it victory without having a cam. And I might suspect that to be this is lowest here. Okay. Thanks. I mean, my opinion then. Yeah. Feel free to joining the queue and disagree with me straight away. I think we'd we'd probably go back to the set of questions from the the chair slides for that. Discussion, if it was your plan that you had yeah. Okay. So let's get back to that. I think you're gonna answer the question. I think that probably should stay here. So I have a repertoire. And so, whatever people people will Yeah. Is so so, I mean, who has how to read it this draft, not necessarily the the 3 version, which is quite fresh, who is with this draft relatively recently So we only have a few, two and a half hands up Okay. somehow. Okay. Okay. So there's more of this. Clearly, that's that that will have to change. But nonetheless, that's, it's now in knowing that. We have some implementation Yeah. Should we check to check those slides then? Or, the implementations we have was a slide on that, though. Right? Yeah. Eustice has a as it's like Oh, yeah. Make a report back"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "Alright. That's me again. Just those. On on Sunday, embarked on a boat mission to create, v6postquantumsafe, Certificate and sent a message And the implementations that we used or tried to use were on PGP JS, G Open PGP and RMP. And after some fiddling, we managed to, use Geo from PGP And R And P to create a v 6 key you are kind of conservative and used, created a dilithium primary key with the Kai by encryption, sub key and and composite, of course. And then in the end, we were successfully encrypting and signing a message, and we sent it over OSMTP and this may be the first male, secured by quantum safe algorithms, if I only hadn't sent the the check with it. And you can you can see the You can see the message here, and it's a bit on the large side. Because I decided to sign it as well. Shout out to the team, Daniel Johan's run was on me and, also to Fire Grant's team who implemented, we fix and, pick your support in in RP and four time. Thank you. Doesn't. Is there is there one more side on that? No. That's it. Like, all the old implementation right now, these are the claimer are using, the round trade submission. Are not not using yet the the missed proposed standard. And GopinpGP is quite complete. R and P, I think, is also quite complete. The only thing is, There's some meddling that needs to be done with the 6"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "So the last point, maybe it requires 6 keys. And OpenPGPs and studies using as slightly order version of, of the lithium and therefore is not compatible with the other 2. But it's more of a collaboration and also an implementation issue also. That's quite experimental still. As a person, Then without any hats, yeah, this is Daniel also with with with no hats on. So discretion about requiring V Six keys, I think, is an interesting one. Gonna it's gonna change the dynamics of how this stuff flows into the ecosystem. Or doesn't, And if I understood your proposal for this. You're saying the signing keys are all requiring V Six. Not there'll be no signing capable stuff in V4. And that, encryption keys are before or v 6. Mhmm. And additionally, that the encryption keys will be able to do seipdvone or SCIPDV 2. This this So I think think I'm a I think I understand the rationale for that split, except for the last bit. Why do we want to allow SCIPD V1 with the legacy OpenPGP, CFB, and this weird thing about, like, well, it's gonna have to be AES because that's what we're binding this stuff too because there's no no place to store it. Like, why don't we just say, if you're gonna do post quantum encryption, you have also do SCIPD version 2 with OCD. I would say 2 reasons. First of all, SCAPDV 1 is not broken. And The second is that And let's say that I'm sending to 2 recipients an email, and I have only a your post quantum key. And only,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "fee, 4 key, legacy, whatever, And then I need to use I need to fall back into SAP 1. I could send 2 separate emails. Sure. But That's not how I would imagine it to work. Okay. So the the CC use case to somebody who can only do SEIP DB 1 is the reason. Okay. That makes sense. That makes sense. Thank you. Sense to me anyway. Maybe I'd be pulling the room feel differently. Okay. So What do you want people? So we we we I think we want opinions and, on on what answers to these questions, and that will help us kind of try and figure out if, for example, we need to ask to have some kind of split in the draft before adoption calls or or what? So I think we need some guidance, from the working group. If nobody has guidance, then our Our mythical milestone of November in the charter becomes a possibly a mythical charter. This is the most this is the thing that people most want to do, and they don't tell us how to do it. But you can also you can also say everything that's in the draft is exactly how I want it to be. That's legitimate. That's a legitimate comment. But we will need feedback from the group. And If that feedback's not forthcoming here, it needs to be on the list. If it's not forthcoming on the list, then we don't really know how to how to adapt the work. So we will need we will need feedback of some paper. Like, Adopt. So so you're happy with the, you know, the whole assembly all in one thing and that's that's your preferred thing. I'm I'm not a PGP implementer, so I can't really comment on that's introducing unnecessary complexity to split it or not split it. I don't I don't an opinion on that question, but I do think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "This work is obviously in charter in scope. We should adopt. We'll we'll we'll Oh, okay. We'll we'll be in charter. Yeah. Okay. We'll be in charter. Okay. You wanted someone to to it's it's I'll be the one to stand up and say this work should be done. In one form or another. Right. Okay. Note that Like, I mean, Regarding the adoption, I think the biggest question here is rather whether we should adopt everything a single draft or not. Because if then the question is whether we should buy it to be 6 keys or if there's one could point too much and you don't like sphinx, plus with the tattoo. That is something still up for discussion, and we might just take it off. Take it off. The the from the from the draft as as long as the draft itself is what you would like to be working on. Great. I see people joining the queue. That's excellent. More people welcome. So Just this. This has been a year. So I read the the graph and I'm happy with it, and I'm happy to see it adopted as a lack of seeing a document, and we can fill it with the with the algorithms later, and I'm I would like to see it adopted. Yeah. 20 high flow dress code, NCSC. Yeah, I mean, this work should be done in whatever format the group thinks should be done, and I won't express an opinion on that. I just wanted to pick up the Oh, step away. The point there about the need for composite signature schemes. So Mike mentioned earlier, sort of, oh, we're not gonna specify Kyber by itself, which probably makes sense. I think the argument is less clear cut for signatures, whether we wants best phydelithium by itself. So I think that is a discussion that's worth having if that has an impact on whether the draft split than, Yeah. I'll let you make the call on that. So regarding So regarding the standardizing the lithium, as standalone, I think that I would call that right now is a bit too early to to to make this call whether we standardizes stand alone."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:04",
    "text": "And, in general, the, like, from the experimental data we have, the overhead of curse onto Pat is build you anything. So, like, x25509 plus, sorry, e d25509 the lithium 3 is fast. And at least for open PGP, that is mostly asynchronous protocol, having an extra curve in there, both from this artifact size and from the speed. Is a reasonable, straight off. Yeah. I mean, that's that's completely reasonable, call. I think that you know, your your security and your cryptography should be as simple as it can be. Still being secure and no simpler. And I guess that given that, you know, most of the from to authentication is, from when a quantum computer actually exists, sort of we're making a call now, but we're making a call about a future that's very hard to predict So, you know, you could standardize our lifting by itself now. And then in 5 years time, go, no one should ever use this. To me, it seems worth doing the workbook. Yeah. AJ, are you on exactly the same topic or something exciting? Okay. So I think I think this since we're on this topic, I mean, I mean, I assume that the possibility exists here that you could, in most applications, is of HTTP, you could have 2 separate signatures, right, or you might have one signature that's a a composite. Now, so I I personally don't understand the pros and cons of those two things. This is an end or kind of question in my opinion. Like, if you have 2 signatures on the mine level, let's say, or you just concatenate signatures into open pcp. It's most implementations will interpret either just the first one. Ignore the second, or as an or. So if any of the two verify, then signature is good. Instead, what we're requiring here is an end and is strict end. This means there's no way for you split up those signatures and use them individually or anything like that. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "is a strict binding. And I think it's especially if you want to do composite signatures. You should do end. Well, so I guess the question you know, I think that I think there's a bunch of questions here that the worker will have to go through and you know, if you're if you're emitting an assigned email or something. Yep. You're probably gonna also, at least for some time, include a pure 80 255 on unsignatures as well. Yep. So you put 2 signatures on the message. So I guess I'm wondering where is the benefit this in having a classic signature, and the compasses, versus a classic and a pure correspondent. I could imagine the following advantages. 1st of all, so the overhead of the classics of the elliptic curve signature He's almost negligible. So having into the the die into the having an additional independent and fresh signatures. Like, 22 2 signatures. 1 of which is are made with 2 different keys. Because if you, in your case, you have one that is made with one key and the other is made with the other key. And it's on the receiving end to choose which one to validate and how to validate them if they need both, if they need 1, is then you need 2 keys to validate both of them. And you need to distribute your keys. Do you want, like, the sender might mean something different from what the receipt then actually does. Sure. Is that in this semantics, semantics, the sender and the recipient have the same they understand they they speak the same language. Understand the same thing. So you want both signatures to be validated, and you say it explicitly. Rice. But nonetheless, I mean, you know, again, I I it would benefit it would help me understand this if there were, like, a their kind of application using open PGP where you really will get a benefit from the campuses."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "In deployments, I'm assuming that a lot of the time, if somebody sending signed email, they will also include a classical signature for a long time. So the way I would use it Personally, let's say I would probably generate a V Four key traditional quantum, basics key, and probably, yes, sign first with the V Four and then on right under with the V Six, that the implementations that are already out there that just parts of the first signature will find the before signature and just parks that one and So, yeah, I think my point is, I guess, have to connect. The work group will have to work through some of those kind of things. And they make a difference as we go from my mic here on to talking this topic. So, Steven, this exact debate, I think, has its own time slot in Pequip. It's the non separability stuff is really closely related to this topic. And if we decide that non sub ability is valuable, then starting with 2 independent separate signatures, obviously, doesn't get you there. Sure. But I I I guess my my concern is that the the the question of the value may depend on the protocol that's Yeah. Meeting signatures. So it's So my my opinion is very simply the cost of having non separability in OpenpGP being a synchronous and and slow already. It's negligible. And at this, at this point, I would prefer having non super ability rather than having some Let's say, I would say some fancy kinda non critical packet into a signature that says this signatures is to be read with these other signature and to be validated alongside it and that would instead be a much more complex situation and a 100 38 bytes of, like, extra daytime or so. Yeah. Guess I I guess I'm less concerned about the performance and more with the semantics the additional security benefit in the semantics and and it also looks more likely that there will be new signature schemes. Right? So picking a composite now might be harder than picking a composite cam now."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "Yeah. Are there other people on this topic, or AJ, you're into So go ahead. Okay. Hi. My name is AJ Stein. So I haven't read the draft. And since this is some record, I guess I'm gonna be really be worried about this. Because this is a very simple protocol and series of algorithms and whatnot. I guess I will read the draft after this. To one of the other points. I don't have much constructive to add, but I know you need people in the group if this may be my first day in this working group, in some capacity. Regarding the single draft or broken out somehow, someone in another working group posed the question to people what are the odds of an implementer implementing just one of the algorithms as a subset, then you could break out the drafts. But if not, it doesn't stand to recent logic although making it kind of long, to break them out to separate drafts. So maybe that's a consideration. I don't have a Good. Dog in this fight to use the metaphor, but I thought that was worth posing because I thought, oh, that's logical from what I heard somewhere else today. That's it. That's it. Ummy. Regarding the size point of the draft. I think this draft also not only compared to the other drafts in OpenpGP, but also in general, I would call it a fairly direct draft. And by splitting it up in multiple draft, it would have like, repetition of the same content over and over. And make, like, to draft it summed up would be more than a single draft, so or 3 even. So I personally think that, also, we made algorithm must shoot a name. And the thing is someone wants to implement just a master fridge do so. And and Yep. Like, I'm gonna make a meta comment for the minutes where on the topic of should we split or stay the same? We just got bogged down in signature stuff and not chem stuff. They they they they I I predict will continue to move at different paces if we want the kind of stuff, I think we've been to wait to wait to wait to wait this is gonna keep happening. Not separability stuff is not a solved problem. I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "Yeah. I do. I think that that's There are other working groups talking about these same kind of issues, and and they are going at different paces. I think that's, I think it's fercom to like, my conclusion point about the splitting up the drafts is we have probably most of us has seen the certificate of these 10 years and is still valid and still being used for encryption and signature. And open PGP, this is the speed it has. So if we wait 5 years to release a new draft with, dialithium, then we might actually lose Mr. Train, that that that give us the gives gives these people like, the opt option to generate 1 year and a half from now already. A certificate that is post quantum resistant I do not know what I do not make a comment whether it's a good idea to make an unlimited life certificate and use it for 10 years. But that's the starter school. Let me ask a question to Protonmail. Mhmm. As a corporate company Do you want to be encrypting post quantum encrypting your user's content. Best. Because that valuable, or are you willing to wait for the signature stuff to right, which kind of fast do you mean? Like, are you concerned about the efficiency of the algorithm, or do you mean Sorry. Standard standards standards process 2024, 2020 6. I mean, yeah, just just, like, you know, you as a corporate entity, do you have an opinion on getting Kem's sooner So for sure, there's some marketing potential in, in, like, in releasing PQC. I do not think we should rush it to the point where, we use unstandardized algorithms to do, like, I don't know, like, using maybe like, releasing it like this month or so using stuff that is also from NIST And Standardized. But personally, I'm also not in the leadership of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "the company, so I can't really tell you what do they want? It's like, maybe Daniel can comment about this peasants, So I'll say we might want to deploy perhaps an an experimental or private algorithm before it's standardized and use that internally at proton if we want to to mean, the the answer is maybe we we might want to deploy something soon and then I would think that might be the best way to do it. Rather than Rush to send it through the working group here. And then also, like, if we want to deploy something now, we might want to deploy the the round 3 submission version, because that's what there are libraries for. Rather than wait for the NIST standards. Right? But I I don't think we should make a a draft here that says to use the the round 3 submission So then I I think if if we do end up wanting to deploy that, we would would would would would needed use an experimental algorithm ID and and probably use that only within proton, I would say. Note that is is exactly there may be a clarification about what I was saying before it's I don't think we should squat good points. Like, we just take 35 and and deployed with the with our post grant conversion, and then everyone else needs to put it as as reserved because we've done so Okay. Any other input? Alright. So I I guess clearly that the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "If nobody else is getting to the microphone, can you say something controversial and prompt them jumps away. I'll I'll say something controversial. So There isn't the the the the sub the sub code points for the SLHDSN. I love that. Yep. Do you want to comment? And Yeah. So so we have this, history in OpenPG be of one code point for algorithm. And then we and then when the elliptic curves came in, we had this oid parameters. So you could do elliptic curves, but you could have oids. And then you had a sort of infinite range, if possible, Lyft occurs that you could use, And then in in the crypto refresh, we went back to saying, know, is a code point per algorithm and This is ed448, and this code point is ed 2 to 5 19. So the SLHDSA that's in this draft has a sub code pass in it. So the question is whether This is relevant for your security parameterization. So if you want to say Okay. I accept like my implementation will accept all kind of SLHDSA which are to Okay. And then you're fine with not specifying which one because the question is like RSA really no one would accept the 500 and you can go from 0 to infinity, pretty much. And instead, LSSHDSA, we have 6 parameters, and all of them are as of now, teams, secure. Secure. 2 different level, but deem secure. So the question is, are you okay with saying I will bind forever, that all of these six parameters will be I will, like, consider them as a single algorithm, and I do not care what's under the hood. If I'd say that chat to is now insecure, I just deprecate the whole algorithm. Or I don't accept that algorithm as a whole, Other option. Is for us to split up these 6 right now would be 12 new code points. I know we got many. But"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "this is a question for the working group as a whole. Like, do you like those? Do you want to have do you want to remove the 192 bit because you think they're anyway useless. Do you say, okay. This is SLH TSA is just for code signing. So we don't need to the the fast variant. We're okay with this low variant or primary keys. I don't know. So come up with these ideas, propose them. We're happy to hear them. We're happy to renegotiate the fact of having a parameter I personally went implementing in openpGP the parameters I felt dirty. So I felt like I was probably not the right thing to do. But from the standardization perspective, it looked great. At least from my perspective, from the implementation perspective, it looks a little bit you'd implement this, come to us and tell us no Don't do it. Okay. Just an additional question, and in so with the current draft, Is there additional work required to specify that say I have to use pretty pretty pretty these for email or anything else. Or is it all is it all in there? No. So I don't have any slides about it. But, at the summit, the email summit for openpgp, the spec is I presented some results, some preliminary results. And pretty much using any of the dilithium, or hyper algorithms, is user tries print. So, so they won't even notice that there's a difference into what they're doing. They're just gonna be slightly larger artifacts, and that's pretty much it. Sphinx Plus may require some additional thinking. As if, like, you might actually rethink the UX if it takes 3 seconds to sign. So you can just click on send email and then wait there for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:04",
    "text": "3 seconds with the user closing the tab because they're like, what is this if and take 3 seconds for But, I would not recommend the user's things plus for assigning anyway. So basically, the answer is is transparent, at least from user should I imagine of it? So even if you're You know, signing the email once classically and once sort of combined signature There's no email. There's no additional specification required for email. This comes to the second topic of the of, in my opinion, of the of of the recharting that is this kind of transition to the new certificate without the application. That that might be an interesting point. I as far as I understood that the RFC right now. It is that signatures on the message level are to be interpreted as an or So if any of them So I would say that is already sufficient. There might be some guidance needed to the developer tell them Hey, put 1st the encryption, the the I have the vaccine. Does that does any medias or agents mesh multiple signatures today? I don't know. A few only understand the first one, some others parts of all of them. I think Steven's question was about emitting multiple signatures as opposed to that's actually already in the draft. If you scroll No. I would do do existing menus or agents a myth multiple classic signatures ever to I've seen messages with multiple signatures. I don't think by default they do I I I don't think any of them do by default. I mean, there probably is some cobbled together thing that does that that's capable of doing But, yeah, there but that may be something that we need to bubble out into into and, actually, I don't know how, Mike, maybe you can speak to the SME situation. Are there any SMIME clients that will sign with multiple signing keys concurrently."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "I mean, pressing a message. I have a note, to this open, particularly, we had an asset signatures already. So we do already include the option of signing the thing and then signing it again, Yeah. The mechanism the the mechanisms there, when we use it. Yeah. I can like I was with I can speak wildly non authoritatively. I don't think I've ever heard of an SMIME example that does that. PDF signing does that. Code signing does that. Sorry? Jason's signature. That's right. Jude, you know, I can say. Hi, all. So, Jean Prat from crypto Next. Yes, there is also this mechanism in JSON signature where you can store as many signatures as you want. And then it helps providing retro compatibility, for instance, and And is that actually used? I mean, in open BGP, you can make a list of signatures. Question is, Are there tools that people use that actively do that right now? So far on the chair, but maybe it can be useful for transition. So it will at some point, it would be maybe. Right. So the mechanism is there, you're saying, but you haven't seen tooling till. Okay. Okay. Such Jonathan Seems like in I can speak to I can speak to Windows code. I mean, did that for RSADR or Shaw 1 to Shaw 2 use multiple signatures. I think EIDaaS uses them pretty extensive for layering and countersigning and stuff. Right? Like, those are the examples I'm aware of. Okay. EIS is our favorite thing this weekend. Jonathan Hammel, RC 5752 specifies how to do multiple signatures for us. I'm I'm not sure how widely implemented it is, but Okay? Chrace, Did you? Hi, AJ. It's fine. I'm not gonna speak to from an expert perspective, on different"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "tools, but I can tell you from personal experience, the US federal government, there's a very popular email client or, I'm sorry, a male user agent that does S MIME, and I would be very impressed to find out if it could actually do multiple signatures. It's pretty much limited to one by design because people have to use cards that identify them as people. Would be almost impossible for you to ask someone, Willow and actually have someone to approve you getting some free for all thing. Again, this is for MUA, but not for code signing, which is, like, totally I'm gonna be very surprised if the Biggest male client people use for that kind of stuff, which is very consistent supports it. That's it. Thanks. This is Hi. This is Winter. So if you do, code signing using Git and GLOBG. It will emit one signature and sure that when verifying signatures on a commit, it will reject the signature or it will reject the the Right. Fail the verification if there are 2 signatures. Okay. So I I think from that, there are some kind of application there considerations to Whether they result in more specification work needed or not. I I don't know So, we we kinda that's the thing that the working group will have to try and figure out. Note that in the draft itself, there is a paragraph about email transition. And that where we talk is explicitly about this problem in asthma and emails in general. I can certainly not ask my main, PGP, my email, and and this kind of stuff. So what I would consider also there a this paragraph might be split off from the brand, from the main specification and made it into an informational lot of CEOs this Right. Yeah. So I guess we need to figure out you know, is there anything normative or just this kind of guidance needed for applications that we'll be using Yeah. Composite cams or signatures or whatever. Given the zoo of ANSYS"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "we had, probably, the answer is yes. I suspect some guidance might be useful because like like Justice was saying, if there are you know, if there are applications out there that will barf on a second signature, already, then Well, this setting up at least a signal. This guidance may be relevant not just for post quantum, but for which suggests that the the the the the fact that we have the key superseded No. Work queued up as a milestone. Maybe that's the place for that kind of Sorry, in the list of milestones that we were talking about, PQC is the first one. And the second one was superceded work. Okay. Which is an attempt to say Here's how you indicate that you have to 2 certificates. One that people might might not act with wide support and one that's probably known to be slightly weaker than his wider support. Sure. And that might be the place to put that kind of guidance. Well, I was trying to think it just, I mean, I'm guessing from from this discussion and you know, we obviously you clearly need to have these discussions on the list. I think the That that I so I think there's an additional question to what's on here that we need to ask the working group is, you know, is there something normative because of this post quantum stuff, or, you know, does that fold into the keypad Key Supersees Yeah. Work or not. And we pro I guess we probably need people to think through some of the consequences of adding these new code points and how that impacts some applications if it does. Even though I think that the biggest step is 54 to be 6 rather than pre quarantined to post quanton because if a if an implementation completely chokes on a VC sickness signature, then we have a bigger issue than the post content. Sure. Okay. Alright. If you say something else controversial, It seems I've actually like contribution"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:03",
    "text": "there's a some milestones. So just thinking about what we might need in order to actually do this work, like, yeah, we would need to call for adoption, but we can't do that until the ISG has sorted out the charter I but I think we also need to kind of try and flash out a couple of questions first. Right? So there's Yeah. If we're gonna coffered option media drafts, It could be this draft or if we if the working group wants to split the work into junks, then the authors would need to do that. Yep. Yep. I think we need to before having a conference option, we need to kind of try and figure out does the work you would want to have multiple graphs on PQC, or are they happy with it is now, which is a single draft that tries to cover all the things. Yep. And then I think also that question about whether Is there additional normative or guidance tax needed to make it sensible to adopt, draft on PTC. Right. On whether we should shift that to the, you know, to the other topic, yeah, to the Well, I I yeah. I I think the first question is, is there additional specification or guidance needed because of PQC. Okay. I am. And if the answer is no, then that's not if the answer is yes, then we can think about how to we're to position that with the V Six kind of transition about test vectors. I might actually give some Like, we do have an issue in our GitHub where we posted some test factors that are as of now broken, but we're fixing them. So, we plan on putting also test vectors in the draft itself. And, like, we don't expect the working group to just standardize a draft without the inspectors. And as well as the interop test suites, hydro probability testing, we plan on using the interrupt test switch and specifying, profile for the various levels of the draft. And well, at least with the implementations that do implement PQC, try to generate certificates and consume them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "and use the test vectors provided. Okay. So I think given we don't have loads of people jumping in. I I think the right thing to do here is to ask up with a few questions to ask the list. Yep. You have the Is there a functional kind of split better or or needed? Is there additional specification or guidance needed? I don't think we need to discuss code point and and algorithm choices until after adoption probably. That's right. And, so I think I think there's only those two questions that would help the authors decide if they want to propose exactly this draft for adoption or if that's an workforce to split it into 2 or something. And if we there's additional work needed, we'd try and hunt down some volunteers, I guess. And I guess the authors are also happy to I'm doing as one of them to like, if if the if there's a working group necessity or like requirement to split it up somehow or to remove the guidance from this draft and put it somewhere else. Yeah. We can talk about this. Okay. So I think the action is probably on the chair is to send a couple start a couple of threads on the mail I missed on those topics, 2 or 3 topics. In the next colleagues, Nope. And then hopefully that will align with the re chartering so that we can do a call for them. Yeah. So that we have a draft ready to to be the subject of a call for adoption once the new chatter is is there. Does that sound reasonable? Does any any other post quantumas that people wanna discuss? You haven't been we're not pressed for time today, so it's we have a couple of minutes. Between 5 to 10. If not, I think we might revert back to Roman had a comments on the charter. So we might revert back to that. That's okay. Can we talk together? I can. I have to do a screen share, but I have it on a top."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:10",
    "text": "I thought in the interest of time since we had it, I could ask a couple of questions in the working group on observations I made about the charter. I think these are largely editorial, but I wanna make sure they are because I think we need to remove a little bit of text. So this is purely editorial. Open PGP is not an internet standard. Like, it's PS. So I will change that. I will ask the I really love, by the way, that we included references to proposed standard for folks who don't know about Sorry. Just You're precisely right. Thank you for clarifying that. I really love that the working group included links So to mailing lists or GitHub issues, to clarify what's meant by the topic, I'm gonna check whether the ISG is gonna bulk at all sorts of kind of clarifying kind of references. I would love to leave it in. So if that disappears. That's why and then really the the the question I really wanna talk about is the working process if we could scroll down to the section that says working group process. Because I have no I mean, the work is the work is great. I have no kind of no issues with how we scoped it. So I would I posit that I would love to remove the first paragraphs. That's That's how everyone does it in the IETF. And I think by having it there raises questions, we're like, what are you trying to do that's And the answer is I think nothing Correct. I think that's editorial. Please react if that is not editorial. That there is somewhat of a predilection for may more mating lists here than compared to some other working groups who are more interim driven and that's I think that's the history of that text. And but it's not yeah. I I kind of agree with you otherwise. So the previous, charter actually said even more strongly that we would do all the work online and not it said something like Try not to hold"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "face to face meetings or something like that. But then I observed that we had a face to face meeting every IETF for for like, some ideas in a row. So I kind of changed that text to try to reflect reality as I observed it, but Personally, I would be fine with removing it entirely. But if someone has strong opinions that we should do the work primarily online and not in face to face meetings, then Yes. Maybe they should speak up so, I I just looked back at the current charter, and it does say into the standard. I know I know I actually noticed that too. And I was I actually double checked. I'm like, did this get upgraded? Who ran the status change process? There is very similar text, but I I can't agree. It's not that there's no function to that text. So that it's just a virtually. Absolutely. So I I think there's and then so I think that if we're I think I heard agreement. Let's just remove that paragraph because that'll raise kind of questions. And then the next paragraph, I also would like to tune a little a little bit of the language because I think it it adds clarification for what is existing process and that's a tax surface. So for all work items, any content requires both rough consensus on the mail list and demonstration of interop. I'll propose something something kinda specific because we're repeating what is actually already required, and they were adding an additional requirement. So I would like to wordsmith that and not here on the fly, but I'll I'll I'll make a proposal that says something like we will follow all things and above and beyond where where we're gonna acquire a few implementations. I don't wanna get into the, like, how are you calling consensus? Because that just raises a tax surface. And then we'll make the last milestone. The first the first milestone, not November 2023, will call it January 2024. Sure. Yeah, probably maybe bunk them all by Okay. Yeah. Okay. That sounds great. Otherwise I I don't care how many months you bump them by. Because it's not gonna say that in the mic. because it's fixing it. But, I'm not But having the having the first one, having one by itself first, I think, is correct. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "Perfect. Otherwise, that sounds great. I'll drop another data tracker and we'll run the Christ. Thank you. Okay. So I think we it it turns out we we like, we do have time for the if time permits. Section. So that, Jonathan knows in the chat? Did we just ask people in the face to face meeting to speak up if they object to doing work in face to face meetings. I think that is a legitimate concern. So So that is probably worth raising on the list and just identifying that you know, calling that out to say that this is this is No. We are removing this from the charter those of you who who you know, have been upset by the fact that we have not been following the previous charter, be aware that we are now more formally not following that previous charter So I think, Andrew, are you ready to present or to give an give it a shout. If given that we have time. Hi. Yes. Do you have the slides I do. What I'll do is I'll pop them up here then I'll hand you control if that's okay. Okay. Just need to Press the right buttons over here. So you should see at the bottom of your screen with a you have pluses and minuses and so on. I have I have buttons. For Yes. contact center, sorry. Thank you. This was, Andrew present as presentation. This is like the 4th planned milestone. So we're we're previewing a little bit. I think it's good to get it. Now that we have time just to get the presentation. So this discussion later can be can make use of that. So thanks, Andrew, far ahead. You haven't been to an 15 or some minutes. I could probably get this done in 5 So it's it's okay. It's it's fairly short. Okay. Okay. So, yes, name's Andre Gahlar. I've I've I run PGP Keysau, which is one of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "remaining surviving SKS key servers that runs hockey puck I'm one of the major contributors to hockey puck as well. And at this point, This this draft has kind of been thrown in at the bottom of the the wish list for rechartering, but because it's it hasn't been discussed maybe so much on the list. As the other three items, I think it might be useful just to give people quick overview of what's happening and why it's there. So This is not in any way new work. This is act the a revival of, Daphne Shaw's original, draft from 20 years ago, which is a a terrifying number. The current status of this is I've taken over as editor and, I've made a few changes, which I hope are unconstitutional. And these changes are mainly bringing the draft up to modern standard practice as HKP already exists in the wild. So I've added HTTPS, the the, kind of nonstandard URL URI schemes. And I've mentioned about v3k's short IDs and all the usual stuff just about bumping the general security floor. Out of the couple of the, the SKS specific endpoints because they exist there in use and you know, even if people don't use them, they shouldn't collide with them. And then a few other things like, that are more recent, like, like, cross site security, HTTP status codes, which we have a much bigger selection of these days. And just cleaned up some terminology and tried to put some kind of logic upon a slightly chaotic design, which wasn't so much designed as grew."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "So the current draft, which I just published there today is draft 2, it contains all of this. Work. So please, there's there's a link at the end of this. It'll be on the materials. So please have a look and, let us let me know what you think. The I'd stand the items that we know of that still need to be done. In decreasing order of concreteness here, the first one that we absolutely must do because, version 6 is imminent. Is, some way of safely providing, version 6 keys over HKP. And, the proposed solution that I'm leaning towards is a new parameter that by default, if is not supplied, HKP would only serve version 3 or version 4. Keys that already exist, and this is basically to maintain the current compatibility status of, clients, clients, We know that there are some clients out there that do not gracefully degrade when presented with unknown key versions. And this is here specifically to prevent them being hammered by unexpected version 6 key being returned that they did not specifically ask for. This is just built in braces for backwards compatibility with, deployed clients. Another, option that was discussed at the recent Dublin PGP email summit was, anonymity pairing again, for backwards compatibility, this would have to be at the client's request. So, again, it would be something along the lines of a specific parameter that requests potting. The exact format of this padding is still a matter for discussion, but the fact that we would like to implement this, I think, is fairly well understood. And then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "one thing that has recently come up on the list, and there was a was a lot of chatter about was about rule separation and how hkp comparison contrast with WKD. They're they're post, kind of doing key distribution, but in different ways. And, one of the ideas that I had, was that We should think of key distribution as more along the lines of DNS. Where, instead of clients specifically looking to get authoritative data directly because they're are a plethora and I have, disconnected supposedly authoritative sources of keys. What we would do is we would split the rules so that, you or your service provider or some kind of trusted third party would provide a recursive look up service similar to a recursive DNS server, and then there would be multiple authoritative services like this, some of which would be domain bound. Others would be, say email verification based and so on, and that would allow those services coexist. More cleanly and more more amicably amongst each other. And just one that I threw in there is authentication we may wish, for, HP servers to, limit uploads based on some kind of kind of authentication, that would need a little bit more work, but that one's quite woolly at the moment. So really what's I would like to hear from other people is feedback from people who are implementing this. There are a few people had discussion on the on the list, mainly, server implementors, I'd love to hear him more from client implementers about what they expect and what they want. From a key distribution mash mechanism, before we can really make any big decisions about the things that were on the previous slide, what future work we actually want and cleaned."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "We will need to make some kind of update for crypto refresh. I would like to get that done as soon as possible. That is the key version so that there is some kind of at least, agreements that we aren't going to start serving V Four keys. The moment that V Four is standardized and and implemented because of the compatibility concerns. So, yeah, we'd we'd need to decide on which things to include in this draft, do we want a minimal one that's just basically a refresh of the twenty year old draft brought up to current status, or do we want to put new functionality into this? And that will depend on feedback from the other implementations. Also, we'd need to tie down some red requirements because this is an API that's implemented over HTTP, a CTPS. There's actually a bit of a zoo of existing RFCs that we need to that we're compatible with. I have them all open and a load of tabs here on the left hand side. I can't keep track of them than my own head. There's far far too many of them. And at some point then further down the line, perhaps next year according to the the draft charter, we could think about, adoption, but it's not anywhere near that. Kind of state yet. So Just quickly the the references that I mentioned, the draft is in the usual sort of place on the data tracker, and there's a repo on GitLab You can see that there. That reboot contains 3 documents the first one of which is the Current version of the Internet draft, And then I also have 2 discussion documents One of which is a conformal padding document that came out of some discussions again, like I said, about the last open PGP email summit. About what exactly we want to do about parting. And and how to make sure that, it's, consistent across implementations because, again,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "because there are many different implementations of different key stores And because people tend to refresh keys from multiple key stores, there's a possibility that if if a consistent padding isn't applied, to all the key stores, then that will itself leak some kind of size data. I caught conformal padding because it attempts to define a parting scheme that is preserves anonymity classes across armoring, dearmoring, round trip and new line mangling. Round trips. I hope it does that, but please, if you, you know, have have a look. And if people are who are more experienced in paddling than me, please. Let me know what what you think about it. And the third document is just a summary about the discussion that we recently had on the list. What I think is current state of that discussion, but I'm open for correction. It's basically a list of the various serve versus well known mechanisms or HTTPS versus WKD. Mechanisms that we may wish to implement, and things that potential clashes that we would want to avoid and, ways that's the different schemes can clean ice. With each other. So that is me. Thank you very much. And, any comments or questions, please let me know Great. Thanks, Andrew. Questions for Andrew or about this topic? Uses you in the queue. Andrew, thanks, First of all, thanks for picking up the the slack. I think this is important work. Regarding the, version selection I don't I don't like that. Two reasons. First, My opinion is if your client can't handle V Six Keys, It can't even ignore V Six keys."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "Let them break. Because this is the only way we will get to know of the potential problems second, we will have the exact same problem with, PQ This is already on the horizon. We then have another parameter saying, If you have a PQ key, serve the big cookie. And I don't think that that is a good model or sustainable. So I would like to see you serve all the versions that, you know, for the given query, and let the client select the keys it understands. Thanks. Okay. Thanks, Justice. Yes, yeah, and and this get a goo goes back to a discussion that Yostas and Bart and myself had at the open PGP email somewhat. And, yeah, we we couldn't come to an agreement then, and it's still, you know, it's still an open issue now. I I'm I'm very sympathetic towards Justice's point, if you aren't following the current standards you know, it's it's it's quite reasonable to not go out of your way to play nice to make existing broken implementations, u. Continue to work. That is I I think that is something that, we'll have to agree as a working group. I'm not willing to definitively say one way or the other myself. I I'm erring on the side of caution here in this but, I I I am absolutely open to everybody else's opinion here. But thank you. Thank you, Justice. Aaron's going to make Hi. Hi."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "Well, First of all, I understand the point of being, let's say, nice to the existing broken implementations. I think that's that's a very fair thing. And we might say, okay. If you state that you understand version 6 keys, then you also accept a PQ key that you know that you want to understand. So, like, or the other option is to have a different kinda parameter that is, like, supported features. And then you say, I support a feature of this 6, I support the feature pick you, and then you just make a list of things you you wish I do not know whether this is an app, right approach but also this is an awesome approach that can be chosen once this draft is adopted or once this is, even chartered at this point, I would say. Great. Thanks. I I guess that's just a comment. DKG is going to the the room, like, so he's just not sure, like, yeah, this is Daniel, not as a chair, but just as a implementer and interested person in the ecosystem. It seems to me that you could maybe, split the difference here and just have one option that says I promise I'm willing to ignore things I don't understand. It's a single option, not a feature set And if the client says that, then you can whatever you want on them. And if they don't say that, then you just do the classic stuff. If you have that arrangement, then at some sense, what you were really talking about is an hkpv2. And then the client that can handle whatever they want. They do hkpv2, and hkpv2 says you're allowed to send things that you that the client might not understand, and they have to ignore it. So It's it's worth thinking about how far we wanna go down that kind of route. I feel like this feature by feature a bit, ends up with a separate set of traceability and identifiability concerns"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:03",
    "text": "on a protocol that you really don't necessarily wanna tie back to individual clients. When they're doing the retrieval. So, yeah, Thank you for doing this work. I I will read the the different documents that you've got in this repo and try to provide comments on them And I guess you could, in a limit, you could even start greasing. So, so, yeah, I I mean, there's been a couple of discussion on this topic on the list and relate topics. And I think that's fine. And it's not getting in the way of anything. And so it encourage people to keep discussing and we'll you know, get to this in terms of adoption hopefully in the time frame, we we said. And I I hope, Andrew, it sounds like that time frame it seems okay for you. If it turns into something approximating reality, I I I think I think it's okay. I I don't see this as being particularly heavy work. I think, you know, Daphne did most of the heavy lifting 20 years ago. I'm just tidying up the the loose ends here. So, I'm I'm I'm happy enough to go as fast as the group is is happy to go. Great. And, and, again, thanks for doing the work. I don't see anybody else in the queue. So thank you. I should revoke your permissions. I get And I think we're at the any other business part of the agenda. So if somebody has other business, you got a couple of minutes. I see anybody having other business. So in that case, thank you, and we'll proceed on the list as as plans. And thanks to our note takers. And thanks to Roman for the Yeah. Yeah. And he really I was just about to kiss the charter and I thought I fixed Generary. So I'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "Yeah. Well, yeah, if he does some leaks or something, it's, it's it's fine. I would like to know if he's yeah. Yeah. Others, I have a tech statement. Same box. Right. Work out Okay. Alright. I find it hard to believe there won't be any new specification environments for saying how to use postpronted messages. I actually think that at the level, So those requirements, I think, are going to be the same as using the V Six needs. because the semantics of open PGP has The allegations as described in the sort of soft layer semantics. You. I don't think they can about something. I don't know. Yeah. Those things kinda slightly optimistic. About I could just"
  }
]
