[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "it's dead it's not really a device is really not found I think it's telling that so far the only people we have on have dots but should one ask how many of them have multiple dots so far uh oh there's Lars we just because we just got our first mobile name foreign up to now Lars everyone has joined has a single dot but then you join oh and we good we have you know at least one Nom come member yes so I'm one who likes to start on time and being as it's actually one minute late at this point I think we should go ahead and start Michael you think so yep let's start let's do it so welcome to the elegy working group first meeting uh Michael has just put the note well on there note that well and I don't think this group needs any further discussion of that the discussion there's basically the only thing on the agenda is to agree on where we're going and start discussion on the document so Michael has an agenda there let's have a look at that and Bash it does anybody think there's anything"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "needed on the agenda besides to discussing how we're going to run the working group and then getting right into the document hearing nothing will move on um so the one thing I wanted to say about working group management and you know how we're going to do this is that the the draft that's out there um reflects what was in the experiment that we already had consensus Community consensus on um so my proposal is that while the details are all up for grabs and we can change any detail we want to change we need consensus to make the change we presume we already have consensus on what's there and any changes are what what we need to have consensus for if anybody thinks that's a bad idea you should speak up now and I will let Michael take over for any other management things he wants to say I have nothing I started taking notes okay uh Joel go for it yeah but that's all I had nothing else to say okay Joel hello so um well I find your phrasing slightly odd I I can live with the working group taking as given the existing stuff whether I agree with the reason or not but that needs to be confirmed explicitly on the list this call can't reach that conclusion yes I think we we have some experienced people around here we know that that's how it goes um so yes you're right if you didn't say it Robert"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "how to work working work um the Milestone listed with the charter is November is that um before at immediately after 1 15 what's our real deadline for requesting publication when we put that date in we were planning to make it the end of November I think it was the the hope so we will um we will have ietf 115 to continue discussion and I hope we can wrap things up right after that okay all right let's get let's dive right into the document then um Martin is there anything you want to say to start us off what do I have to do to ah there you go probably I released it maybe you need to ask again Martin and I I can't hear Mark I see his lips move but are you double muted no I hear nothing uh okay now I'm sorry I just I just forgot how many Deco works okay um say again Ask to share your screen I think we didn't I don't have any slides oh okay I know you didn't have any slides I thought you were going to put up GitHub oh okay okay yeah let's do that sure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:03",
    "text": "no I I don't want to do that I want to do this okay uh there we go okay um so there aren't um so the GitHub is up uh there are um some people already submit some PRS for some minor editorial stuff thank you those have been committed already um I have a couple of I found a few issues myself as you can see um they're mostly minor but the two things I would like to say about them and when the available data one so there's a to do to have an available data section um in 89.89 there's one that has some stats of you know how many how many how many people that I would add to the pool um I I don't have any data I don't really have a strong conviction as to what data should be there so feel free to like send me some data or do a PR or add something to the issue about things you would like to see and I'm happy to consider those things um The Other Well actually let me just open that up first if anyone has any comments right now about that Robert so um I pretty much have to generate the data um and to do so I would need really well defined questions for what it is that you want this document to actually show and I know that I've got some implementation to finish before I could actually run the data out for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "what I anticipate those questions would be so it would it would very likely be um uh mid-october before I could provide anything so still within the Realms of stuff Landing in for a November deadline but um I'd like to First challenge we really need it and are we trying to prove anything with the I mean when we were doing the experiment I think we needed to motivate the experiment but now I'm not sure we need to provide the motivation and while I'm happy to do the data mining work I'm wondering if it's a distraction for actually getting the document out and we if we wanted to have a you know some sort of efficacy study it might happen as a separate effort uh thank you Robert uh so yeah I am not married to having a section by any means um uh uh I would say that well first of all if no one put does anything respond to this issue then I will just close it and not have the section but I would say that often when you take an experimental RFC and make it standard usually has the first results of the experiment and it might be appropriate to to have something to that effects kind of and you know includes the data Michael uh did I get the microphone right yes I think so um so Robert um and Martin what about any the to the document have any requirements for ongoing collection of the the data like a yearly snapshot of essentially the data that went into the Venn diagram is that something that you think that we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "is that easy to produce retroactively so it's going to become a little bit easier to produce retroactively in that um since one a nom come 2021 I've had the data I have the data tracker showing the um volunteer pool um capturing the volunteer pool and the data and also displaying it but we actually have it by person instead of by some um name handled it is hard to match against the the identity that we're we're trying to work with so it will be far easier going forward now that we are um getting a some data with Integrity collected about who the who the volunteers that went into the calculation actually were um to ask even different questions um going forward so that didn't uh maybe other people have some other views on the the more question is does the document need to specify the data that we should be collecting or experiments over we don't care um I'm thinking partly like you know someone that decides they're going to uh renormalize the database in a new way and suddenly there's some measurement that we were doing regularly that we can do um and unless we're collecting the data regularly we wouldn't notice that until we actually someone said well you know how many people did XYZ now at least with the metrics that we are um using right now and what are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "the data destroying the ability to to look at those calculations are zero I mean we're looking at who we're document authors who were um working group chairs leaders and who attended meetings and that's not data we're going to throw away foreign requested data collection in the security considerations it's not really written as such but it uh for those of you who haven't read it's very considerations um attempts to like create the front model and how someone might try to take control of the nom-com and the ITF or nefarious purposes and like it it's just the thought experiment there does sort of point out some early indicators that this is going on um but there's an informal like requirement for somebody to collect data and analyze it yeah I mean that the way I look at it this document is ending the experiment not continuing it and while we always like to collect data on in an ongoing way I don't know that this document needs to specify that I don't object if it does but I I don't want it to look like this is prolonging the experiment but uh that's not the point here right so I've heard some interesting discussion I haven't really gotten a clear action item um my intent remains to leave this open for a while if the pr comes in or a um or some additional information issue comes in uh I will consider it and uh I will run it by Robert and see if it is useful um and if uh and if those things are true I'm happy to make changes to the document but if nothing happens I'm just going to close it out okay the um other some more sensitive"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "substantive item is uh directorate members in path two uh so um at this point I lack data whether this would make a difference so I should preface everything with that but um we've got working group chat I've actually I originally proposed this when we were going to severely curtail the number of people that were eligible as a result of being remote attendee um now so like we needed a way to capture like you're actually going to meetings you're doing things rather than going to online meetings and just kind of sitting there uh I'm not sure this is needed anymore the more I think about it because now do we really want someone who's just doing direct reviews and not going to any ITF meetings at all and and I think the question is probably the answer probably no Robert so the I've looked a bit at the data around the records um and directorate membership and I think that just being a member of the director it's not is just going to be noisy and and not really help that if you wanted to pursue this path it would be it would have to be a direct member that met a certain metric boundary and defining what that metric boundary is is I think going to be something that would not be easy to get consensus on um we had conversations about this back when we were doing the um 8989 the discussions that led to 89.89 and the the after a few times going around the poll on it the the decision was to punt okay I mean that's good enough for me if no one's going to speak up for it I'm probably going to close this issue um I'm no longer fired up about it as as I just said um so it's not in GitHub but there's one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "other question which is one of authorship I know there's at least some noise that like maybe having the only author of this being uh an area director like there's possibly poor Optics um there was also concern that maybe it would be too much work for me given my 80 workload and as I said on the list like this won't be a problem I can get this done uh however if people are concerned about the Optics there are like three things we could do one is that um I could just like hand depend to somebody else and walk away from this and my name isn't on it like I'm not here to boost my authorship stats uh the second option is it could bring on a a a co-author and um if we just need one like sort of cosmetically Stephen Farrell has graciously agreed to to bring his name over from 89 which would be fine with me or third if you could just do nothing and drive on with me as a co-author any of those is fine and um Robert you have a question another comment or you still is that from before no that was from before I apologize okay so if anyone has any feedback on that point I'm happy to take it when we were forming things we had a couple of uh comments that a few people thought it might be better to have another author but nobody seemed to have a strong opinion John yes as one of the people who probably brought that up I I'm more concerned that we discuss it and be explicit about whatever the secret is which is what we're doing now what the answer is my gut instincts as we'd be better off with a co-author in principle but uh but as I say the more important consideration was that uh it not not happened by accident thanks my view on the point is that uh we develop Community consensus on this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "if anybody disagrees with the calling of consensus they have a path to do that and the author the editor does not really have the say in it the editor is just doing a fairly mechanical job we always say that about ietf documents and it never quite works but again uh I'm I'm okay with whatever the outcome is the important things for me was to get the discussion started thanks John it's a question worth raising um uh if anyone says we really ought to do it I'm happy to add it but at this point I'm not hearing that so I think we'll just move on uh I I I also don't see a queue of volunteers rushing forward to join you on this well like I said like I would be fully comfortable with adding Stephen Farrell I know it's often traditional take a the original documents author and just bring it over um so you know we wouldn't even really have to have someone do anything uh but nevertheless yeah and that's part of my point I guess is that I think it's kind of odd to put someone else's name on just to have someone else's name on if Martin's still going to do the work and I I don't see any compelling reason to do that okay so then um that's it for issues if you haven't read the document I encourage you to do so I mean the core normative part about the eligibility is um uh is unchanged for 89.89 but really all the text around it has changed so um I think what I'm going to do here is clean up the acknowledgments as I as I wrote there wait a little bit for some data requests to come in and then I think we're ready for working with last call unless people file other issues"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "um and and so for the purpose of this call are there any changes to the three path system that anyone wants to push for now and I see none foreign I guess I will be looking at this and I I think that I would like to simplify things I don't think we need all three legs but um okay we will await your proposal on the mailing list yeah I mean I I I think I think there's something to that I mean ultimately now that we have I mean if we're going to allow like even the sliced amount of remote participation as at you know at a regular ITF meeting as um it's sufficient then then really like the question is we really want someone who was doing these other things but not going to meetings recently to be on the num com um when we were going to curtail uh much like the directorate thing we were going to curtail the the eligibility of remote attendees you know and like put all sorts of fences around it because of the fear of abuse um uh it made a lot more sense to give people other avenues but maybe you just need to go to meetings to do this and I I'm totally open to that change myself if people wanted to do it well I think the point originally was getting a nom come full of people who at least had some familiarity with the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "community as well as with how the ietf works and as the ietf community has expanded and people are more specialized than they used to be I think we've basically thrown that first part out the window that we can hope to get some people who are familiar who know the community and know the people who are standing for positions but mostly we have to rely on comments from others for that and what we're hoping for with this path is people who are familiar with the ietf and that doesn't necessarily mean that they're actively going to meetings today um if they're doing other work in the ietf which I think is where things like directorate came in so while I don't really want to push for and I'm speaking as a participant here not as a chair um while I don't want to push for any additional mechanisms I don't think we should pair off the ones that we've already put there and experimented with I'd rather stay with them foreign question for the chairs do you want to actually just hold up with these um hold up on this available data I agree with you I just clean it up and go straight to last call and people can can like argue about data and last call if they want um given that we're not going to have any data for three weeks or so um and that seems like a right time frame um to actually be able to put pretty graphs on a screen at a in-person meeting um it's that sounds like a good plan and that even if we decide not to include the data in it maybe we still want to collect it um as a working group um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "the thought I had I had other thought but um I think I'll um write it as an email I'm sorry so do you want me to to essentially get it ready for last call immediately or do you want to wait until the stated discussion I agree with that I don't think we need to have the data um not really speaking as a working group chair I don't think that we need to have the data in the document to there I I think it's useful if we have a notion of what data we we uh we considered or looked at um but um I don't think that we need to have some numbers or we put Venn diagrams and data in the other document I agree that we don't need to do that this time so um I'm just saying that that maybe we will get pushback during that the community really wants the data and maybe we should plan on having it in the proceedings for ietf 115 anyway um and maybe that's enough right yeah I agree with that so Martin maybe you can post to the mailing list a note about the data you're collecting planning to put in there um I will post again there's no point right now I have no particular um uh he was thinking that he was going to have to produce produce um and maybe you can just describe that in two paragraphs Robert somewheres and um we can say we working group could say whether this is a useful to making our decision or not well if you go into 89.89 and look at the questions request in the diagrams were drawn there yeah did anything it would be the logical"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "modification of whatever those questions were to match what this document says okay that's what I I assumed as well all right and I will post to the list the plan that I said at the beginning of this that um we're looking for any proposals to change the criteria that we have and that consensus needs to be achieved on plans for change that we assume we have consensus on what's there um and then I will encourage people to read the document and post their suggestions forth with with the idea of finalizing things at ietf 115 . so do you want to call do you want to start the last call before 1 15 or after 1 15. I want to do it after and Michael you agree uh yeah I think that we should do it right after the meeting if we're assuming that we don't get major um issues I think that's the right process there I think that still meets the end of November so I mean Martin if you want to you know whatever it is we need to do to make it ready then don't stop on that I mean sure I mean I'll close out the the issues I have here except for the data one okay yeah and Donald said he had a proposal that he wants to make so I guess you're going to write that to the list or in a GitHub issue Donald I guess right yep yes excellent is there anything else anyone wants to discuss on this call hearing nothing I think we have a short call and we are ready to proceed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "thank you everybody for coming and we'll see you on the mailing list and then at 1 15. wonderful anybody else okay"
  }
]
