[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "all right well according to my clock it is time hello everybody and welcome to beautiful sunny madrid uh where we're enjoying ietf and this is the calexed session so if that's what you want to be it's here you are i'm just going to run us very quickly through the first couple of slides here the notewell which by now i think most of us know very well either we've seen it this week during the calls or at other times everything that you contribute during this session is covered under these various best common practices so please note these well i've also added another slide that i have seen floating around at this meeting basically saying please be nice uh please behave well people please be aware that there will be people who might be quite new to your area and don't know all the jargon and all the the backstories on everything so make them feel welcome as well and and don't assume too much knowledge um thank you sound all right uh with that said here's the agenda so this is what we were planning to talk about so far at this call if anyone has anything you would like to to change or talk about here please pop in the queue and let us know hey mike go ahead well i just do i mean there's nothing changed really for the um the drafts in progress unfortunately since um we spoke what two weeks three two um and the relations thing [Music] probably will take a little more than five minutes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "cool that's fine but i think that might be this yeah it's probably the same amount of time maybe less cool the other thing i'd say just up to start before we we get into this with a group this small i think unless things start getting a bit crazy about anything feel free to just hop in and talk if you want to talk rather than raising your hands and waiting to be requested and it makes things a little bit smoother in a small group like this so mike would you like to control the slides or do you want me to pop them up and and go through them for you if you could uh put them up for me there's only three and the title cool all right let's move on then so um among the various comments uh somebody um said the security section ought to have some comment about uh the the perils of xml because there's an xml reference i couldn't find any um anything i could lazily copy and paste from anywhere um oddly enough i did find plenty of blog entries about the problems of with xml things that uh the xml specifications don't appear of anything like a security section so i think i made up something like um that last paragraph uh the only thing i could find anyway was a reference in web dev to the problems with xml entities um basically i'm just asking if anybody else's knows of anything useful i could point at or whether that last paragraph will do as a warning to read further um i guess if people are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "using xml maybe they know the pos maybe that's a wrong assumption to make but that's all i could come up with but was the comment um something generic or was it uh yes it's just the generic problems with xml because there's an xml reference um introduced in this relations draft and it's just that given that we're pointing at uh xml then maybe you should say something about the uh various uh securities who's surrounding xml which was a reasonable enough comment just i couldn't find anything um yeah yeah so the comment was not uh pointing to a specific problem no no no no or something yeah no no it didn't didn't offer anything like that so i did some digging around and that's um i would say the best i could come with next within rfcs was the uh web dev um spec has something about xml entities which i think is the main problem but uh i'm sure there are others um but that last paragraph is essentially where i was gonna i was gonna um update the uh the spec with with that in the security section which um so that's that's the xml thing um and i think the only the only other um major comment is the next slide um bronn uh this spec has a a um a link property which is um to allow allow you to um specify a link to some external object"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "not a countering object and uh we said in the draft inspect that you should update the um rfc 8288 with it which defines these the link relations and mark nottingham who was the original producer of that spec made a comment that either this spec should be a proper serialization of that that link that that spec iterated by is a link header and it and it basically formalizes the um links in html and atom and it allows you to express them as a uh as a link header and what caught my eye was that what was it the various types of link relation it's useful to have something where you could link to external entities and say exactly what type of external entity it was you you were linking to so i um this uh was proposed some time ago without any comment from anybody and then mark nottingham uh was made aware of it and i in actual fact as i read through the spec again i think um the relations draft actually is a reasonable um serialization of the link header uh it's just i don't say so um he defines a couple well three attributes i think one of which doesn't really apply but the there's a type attribute and um and a uh a title attribute the type is is a corresponds to format type in parameter in icalendar and the title"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "attribute corresponds to the label attribute in in i calendar so both of those actually are valid with with link the link properly so i just need i think i just need to say that's the case um i mean he suggested defining our own registry or whatever we're not getting tangled into it but i think that just leads to more um overlap and confusion because we're trying to do the same yeah i agree having having your own registry is just more work yeah and it just doesn't make sense defining exactly the same thing and one of the comments he made was well uh you may get an idea whether it's whether you ought to be using the same rights by looking at the current link relations so i hadn't actually um been explicit about any of the existing link relations i did define a source relation which is one of the things i think we're missing in them in in i calendar is so where did this thing come from initially um there is something of the kind for a um a v counter object that cyrus defined which allows you to reload the v calendar object but there's nothing that allows you to say where can i go to to find a live copy of this thing somewhere an event publication that's very useful because you where you may want to be able to point people back to a site which is displaying events or whatever which is what i do with our calendar system so having a source property would you link back to the the um the event as it appears on the site it came from is is useful um so i think i think i just need to to be more explicit that this is a serialization of the link link header so i'll add a paragraph to make that the case and i'll i'll actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "explicitly um uh specify that uh the label is the same as as title and um and and format type is the same as type in in that header um and they've got things like uh title star or whatever which allows it for a different encoding of um of the title things i don't think that we would uh do that i think if you want um also if you want different um i think it allows for accented characters and weird things like that which sounds more like localization than um anything else so i guess uh we could deal with that in a localization thing and and to address his comment about what sort of overlap is there between um you know current link relations if you could go the next slide i um i noted a few of them um which seemed immediately useful for uh mostly in in event publication but perhaps not all together we a long time back there was a discussion in cal connect about being able to add um copyright information and and so on to to events and we we actually spent some time discussing it and then and it then just got dropped i think for some reason i think the person who was trying driving it actually actually left those those look immediately useful to me especially in event publication being able to specify um you know terms of service any privacy policy if there is any um and and the copyright information"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "just looks useful author might be useful um payment actually we've had a lot we do have a feature in our system where you can register for events and pay them that might actually be useful um there are a few other things a web mention was an interesting thing um and and there's a whole bunch of other ones that i hadn't really noticed um which look more like countering things there's a whole bunch of them called interval something other which relates things together which seems to overlap with the relations and the the related two temporal relations that i added but um it looks like it might be another useful um document on how to use some of the other link relations that already exist so i think there's a lot that we could use so that's that's where i am i just don't i don't think there's any major changes needed i don't think this could hold things up at least that's my my feeling just a couple comments from uh from my standpoint i i want to agree with mike i don't and brian i don't think we need to define our own registry i also think that uh by using the format type and label properties we actually do have a serialization we just as mike said we just need to mention that and as far as the title star parameter in in the actual hdb header i think that's for non-ascii characters and since we're utf-8 anyways i don't think we have to worry about that mike yeah okay yes okay well i can i can i can explicitly say that as well that it's utf-8 so your title star doesn't apply in there yeah so basically just adding my plus one to your current uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "so i'll try i'll try and get an another draft out oh i'm sorry yeah back on the uh xml issue this working group's probably not the best place to find people with a lot of expertise in xml security um but yeah i that looked fine to me okay i i just i guess francesca's probably the one to check with as the responsible area director if that's if she thinks that's going to be sufficient yeah i was i forgot to mention i was going to say something similar it looked okay to me but i'm not a security expert and i'm assuming that the security reviews will point out any deficiencies if they feel the rarity i don't i think the original comment it wasn't so much that we need to go into any detail about this but at least just mention that there are security issues with with xml so um i think at least i've answered that um whether having raised the issue other people think it's sufficient uh yeah i think we'll just see how that goes and as i was gonna say i'll try and get another copy of this another draft out in the next two three days with these if that all seems okay cool that's what i was going to ask you know just what the next steps were yep awesome anyone have any comments questions beyond this on this work right back back to the agenda then the next thing on our agenda is ical tasks so we don't have slides that i don't think mike"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "no and i haven't i haven't managed to um do anything um with the testing in the last few weeks uh just briefly i think i i this has been lying dormant for a long time and then i i noticed that we do make use of some of the um oh sorry can i can i just step back a moment to to relations uh what one other slight uh make is mark not even notice the relations draft is actually um you know is referencing that the h288 but in fact so does js calendar and um and and ken's current so maybe we're already due for another errata in there in that i think i guess what's going to happen is we'll have to um in some way refer to what i uh what i mentioned in the relations draft in js calendar i don't know where that where a good place to do that is but i just raise that as an issue but we have we do actually have this same um issue with with js calendar so all right nearly happy for me to put the action on you to follow up on that one obviously but like i guess cool can see yourself fallen told please be clear about it because yeah that's right it'll be in the minutes so we can chat about it during the day"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "it's probably really just a matter of of um explicitly referring to the whatever comes out in the relations spec uh sorry yes anyway back to to tasks uh because they've been dormant so long uh they've been the world has changed a bit around it so i need to uh update the whole um spec to refer to um the relations work that's moved on a bit since then and also um probably to make use of the participant components to group things together one of the big things that was going on with with them the tasks specification was to try to improve um reporting of status and also status related to particular uh actors in the uh when you have a task that's been carried out by um a bunch of actors which correspond to attendees you want to be able to relate to the um status of that for per attendee or actor in the thing so that is we had a uh a parameter the group parameter which which basically said this this is part of a group of properties it was a bit of a crude way of doing things and and it was because we were frightened of having new components at a time we stopped being frightened of that so um participant is a more reasonable way to do that um and also the status property in icalendar is is really has it has the same problems that you want more than just status you want to have an associated comment and all the rest of them and which we have sort of that in um in just counting so um i think the thing to do there is probably to just introduce a new"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "component which groups those things together and allows you to have a status um that's much more complex and so i i it's a there's a fair amount of rewriting to be done there so i i need to get that done cool and yeah there was the the work coming out of the jmap tasks as well it needs to be we need to make sure they stay aligned yes yes all right i guess we'll probably come back to talking about this when we do the milestones but clearly the next action is for you to keep working on the document yes anybody have any questions contributions for tasks next up is js calendar icalendar hello yeah um so the basically there is unfortunately no progress has been made since our interim a month ago um so that is um we are still in a design phase of defining the mapping from gs calendar to i calendar um or do the other direction already as has been said earlier is already supported quite well um and so what's waiting for us to go into last call for this is to have implementation experience uh with mapping from js current to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "icalendar um i'll put priority for the cyrus imap server that we now get started with this um so that this rfc doesn't lean us around uh too long mike yeah yeah i have the um another implementation is that yes we um and i've been a little bogged down in there trying to get a new release out but yeah i will try and and um push along with the uh uh implementation of of um of this mapping and the same time update the place the spec let's see if we get get it wrapped up yeah i mean the the um link object mapping in cheers calendar is is now also depending on the updates to the link definition that has been discussed previously for the relationships yeah so there is a bit of a there are a bit of dependencies between these um yeah that's what i was trying to resolve with the uh the tasks and the relations again the relations thing moved along because um yeah there's there's a couple of things that it depends on yeah okay so i i guess the next step is that we to get together and and sort this out um how we how we get started with this one then yep okay cool yeah that's that's it all right thanks robert yeah it's just the one just the one slide there so not not much to do unfortunately in this meeting because we met so recently the last thing on our agenda is subscription upgrade in this section uh nothing extra to report even since"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "since i think the last itf it it's it's uh my feeling is that um there are one or two um the issues have been raised by who i think they're more a matter of opinion rather than than substantive changes i think i think this is is probably in a pretty good state all right so i mean the question really is do we do a working group last call on it now soon do we need implementation experience let's let's say um let's say very s very soon it's it's a smallish draft so i i i probably need to re uh take a last uh run through it and and perhaps refresh it that might be the thing to do is take a a good look through it um push out another another version just to to refresh the dates on it and then we can decide whether it's good enough to get a last call would that do it yep that works for me okay all right the next item on our agenda after this is future work section vpol server-side subscription um planning to once these documents are out what does this working group do next so i mean it depends probably a lot on your availability mike yeah people the uh um i did i did do some updates on the on the vpol um spec to make use of um participant component um we had we had a um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "a component defined in there which is the voter um and it makes a lot more sense to use the participant component that defined already and so that i've i think i've i've done that i i haven't updated my implementation fully and i think the um the only other active implementation that might be around which needs updating is cairns in cyrus yeah i have not updated it uh to the current draft and so i i think um it i probably ought to again uh take another look at where i am with with that trap i think it's i think it's um i think i updated it all i can reap i can publish it again there's a new version and maybe that will um wake things up a little cool i off the top of my head i don't remember what ken's got work wise in the pipeline at the moment i think there's a couple of things just landing and then so what do you reckon can do should we be able to get at this start of next year oh for sure yeah um i can try to make an effort to have uh updated implementation by the merge itf if not sooner yeah it'd be good to do some interoperability testing again once we switch everything around see if we can find anyone else who wants to play with it as well yep all right and service side subscription"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "was the other thing that was specifically on the list to talk about here um we i think we're still just waiting on apple to get back to us on that aren't we think so yes cool um that is all we have on our agenda is there any other business you met brian you mentioned uh potential future work are we still looking for ideas for that because i've got i've got at least one if you just want to throw it out there um mike and i have talked this on on some of our cal connect calls that five five four five and four six probably are due for a refresh i'm just looking at five five four five right now there's 17 there fight errata there's looks like seven five other specs that have updated it which could probably be rolled in and um given some of the uh current discussion with dmarc and imip i think 5546 probably needs some new language in terms of how to properly uh deal with um someone sending invites replies on someone else's behalf that said i don't know if there's enough energy in this working group to actually take on all that work to um one of the things i have suggested in in the in the past that we we really are lacking is a is a document that is um just specifically describes the the countering data model independent of of representation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "it's it's sort of you can disentangle it from my calendar if you look closely enough and when we have things like um js calendar it's trying to support essentially that same data model with a different representation but it's really hard to tell whether we're doing it right or not and there are other representations that are around now and could be around in the future and and perhaps rather than simply um you know bringing out a new unreadable document um we could consider the possibility of producing um a document that describes the country data model it it it won't be any less work but it it might um it might be more valuable than simply it's the kind of thing i was going to say it sounds like something similar to what https has done where they split the wire format from the actual semantics yeah it's more valuable going forward because i think it uh it allows us to define a different uh extra for other formats and representations and and be able to have something you can say will it correspond it actually does represent this data model and it's what they do in oasis they i think they are required to produce these things they call like there's pins and puzzles which is a platform independent model and a platform-specific model which is you know one is the actual data model one's a representation i think it would make it make a lot more sense i think but it's still probably a lot of work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:06",
    "text": "i know that people in something like the in the smart grid world they really like their their uml diagrams they actually use that stuff for so it it might it might make sense to investigate that [Music] yeah what we really need to do is find some people who are keen to to have some published documents in their name and have lots of time and in are interested in this field the question is where do we find these people there there is actually a um there is actually a data model specification um which isn't complete but it it it could be um it could actually take a lot of the work out of it it's it's going back to a oasis um when we did ws calendar they defined a um a a pin for um the ws calendar spec which is a subset uh and a subset and a modification of of i calendar so it it may be worth looking at so there may be there may be something to start with but um i'm wondering um um to me if i have to refer to the model i'm going to read the gs calendar um and i'm wondering how who who is the target for such a document and uh how is it gonna be more readable than a gs calendar or um even if we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "we take the i mean the ical specification it's it's when you get around to manipulating the data that the problems arise and i kind of try you know the and you end up having to go back to probably at the moment you have to go back to i calendar and i tip what sorry we're talking about it is different like if it's just the the data model like jsc and i calendar i feel jazz calendar does make pretty clear i don't think the separate document is likely to be much clearer um json the kind of json format is you know it's easily representable in lots of other ways to um yeah it kind of almost is just giving you the data model there now the itv exchange on the other hand yeah i agree the current docs are very hard to understand properly yeah i think we probably want to try and extend to being able to to send a tip with js calendar rather than just icon to contact content as well yes i think you you do it as just another bit in your text alternative um and yeah yeah which will fall out kind of upgrade parts as well to get away from it for everything yeah we can do easily all right that sounds like it's definitely going to be some upcoming work um in terms of actions from this do we just leave it for now and and start it later does anyone want to to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "take on proposing a document or proposing work here i'm not doing right now i think we probably need to get our current work off the table and then if we do move forward with updating the icalendar base specs that might need a recharger i haven't looked at our charter recently but i don't think that's going to be part of it well why don't i share a screen which is this one this is what we've got in the queue right now relations is is getting towards the end these documents we've just discussed um certified subscriptions nothing's already in that list let's have a look at i think our charter gives us reasonable scope to maintain those we say we're going to develop the specific things we've done extensions will be backwards compatible so out of scope is changes that impact backwards compatibility with existing stuff and any attempt to develop non-gregorian calendar systems so yeah we would probably want to to specifically say we're going to go back and and redo all the documents i think people might might have questions about redoing them entirely rather than just extensions too"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "well i mean i think it does any new chart if it's not redoing them entirely right it's just putting all the errata in trying to clean up some language we know is commonly confusing um yeah maybe merging if there's extensions that should all be part of one or not so i think i would uh i would put the isp and ask before the surgery is absolutely because i mean it will be reasonable sounds very unclear i'm getting every second word oh sorry i'll write that's much better all right from from from the start i try again no it's not i will just right cool thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:22",
    "text": "foreign yeah thank you francesca i'm tempted if we were to do a recharter to recharter basically to say this is where all calendaring related stuff happens we maintain this whole set of documents we do extensions to them we refresh them when necessary please come here if you have calendaring stuff and and that way we say yes we we own and look after this section and work will happen here rather because this the length of a charter like this and the very specificness of it it does sound like it it's just it's a waste of everyone's time to be rechartering every time you do a new document um yeah i agree i mean that's essentially what it is isn't it yeah i am so two thing if we don't need to recharter i i'm not for it so um whatever we want to do if um if there is an agreement and it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "can't fall in into the charter um it's it's good to avoid this work if we feel we do really have to recharter then i agree with brown that um we should not be so much specific um so to avoid uh rechartering uh every time we have a new idea so let me pitch in as the ad who originally chartered this working group uh the idea at the time was that there was a fixed set of things that needed to be worked on that was being brought in from cal connect and we chartered it to handle those items without the without thinking that it would be a long-running working group that would just keep processing new stuff over time so i agree if uh if if we're going to spend the time rechartering we should recharter it in the latter form as a long-running working group to deal with calendar stuff and i think that would be a good idea yeah i think there's there's going to be plenty to do by the time we refresh all these things there will be new stuff happening in calendaring space no doubt that i i disagree with francesca that chartering is a big deal it should not be a big thing to do you ought to be able to spend a reasonably short amount of time putting together a charter that describes what you want and um it's not a big process in the iesg it should take about a month so um so i i don't i think you should do it because then it gets you ready for the future and uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "jim for berry um do you feel that um we should recharge her now or a personality this to be a long-running calendar um calendar related stuff working group that rechartering to make it clear that that's what this is is worth the trouble because then you will not get issues from ads saying wait how how does this fit into your charter and that's always a danger if you don't recharter that somebody might call you on and it's it's not like there's any competing groups trying to do calendar work sedate being the uh the date time stuff yeah no that's fine and i know one of the chairs in that group i'm sure i'll be fine with it all right um i'll do the first pass at this daniel and and discuss it with you sound good cool that's an action for me all right any other business you have milestones here yep that's the last bit here we go uh submit task draft to asg i think i think i was supposed to update this already and have not yet done so when do we think tasks going to get done um i'll try i'll try and get a new draft out in the next next few weeks it's probably"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "going to be you know sometime in december but i i may measure earlier um so we submit in january i guess by the time you had time to yeah this one time to look at it i'll i'll try and get out as early as possible cool subscription upgrade we that we said it's basically ready to go didn't we so yeah we should be able to submit that next month uh js calendar mapping document robert um js calendar is i'd say we should be done by april yeah cool [Music] calendar series um why april and not uh why april not later not before is it a specific day i thought the next itf is in april um okay okay because i i mean um one of the the reason i am raising that question is uh you mentioned that you need some more deployment so yes yes so um there are two things to that so for js calendar specifically um since we are in the in the progress of um um of working with chamber calendars this is also an occasion to um to finalize the mapping so that's about the time frame um i was looking at to get that done okay good all right uh calendar series mike yes this one has gone"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "gone gone back to sleep yes it has for the moment but i need to wake it up what what's the date on there i can't see it so it's set for march 2022 which is already off in the future um but is that too aggressive it probably is given that i haven't had a chance to even look at it for the last few months um let's kick it to july that's slides at the asf out vpol is set for june 2022 i think that's far enough in the future we can deal with that at the next itf um and ditto server side subscription all right did we have any additional milestones to add i don't think so tasks is in their js calendar mapping documents and their subscription upgrades in there ico relations already submitted yep all done then anybody have any other business before we close out the meeting i believe that the next time we meet will be at next iatf there's the next cal connect is after the next iatf uh nottingham may 2022"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:12",
    "text": "all right thank you everybody we get to 10 spare minutes great thank you great thanks bye bye you"
  }
]
