[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:02",
    "text": "so this is the room for the lp1 workgroup meeting if you want to do packet over helicopter carriers you\u0027re in the wrong room and with this we\u0027re gonna start will delay a little bit passing the blue sheets because we are used to some people who are low-power workers and arrive later in the meeting but yes so we\u0027ll pester the blue sheets in like 10 to 15 minutes and with this the meeting starts so please seat and the rule is the late comers are the one who take the minutes so giorgos you have to take some minutes no hon you have to take some minutes okay so this is a an official IETF meeting so the best practice documents apply in particular the DCP is about IPR on patents so if you\u0027re aware of any IPR on the subtopic that is being discussed today please mention it to the room or let the channel after the meeting this meeting is being recorded so it will be published on YouTube I guess as usual we\u0027ll be recording the presence on the blue sheets we\u0027ll be passing the blue sheets in 9 10 minutes please join the etherpad so the link is given here this is where we take the minutes and mostly if you come to the mic and make a point please make sure that your point is correctly captured in the minutes so the best way for doing that is actually to participate to the minutes and help us take them so all this would be published and make it made available on YouTube so just one point we would like to thank our mini takers for today so we have a couple of main unit takers so evallo and luhan and eduardo who is the first time mini taker so great job and also our jabber scribe jurgis thank you so Dominic is also light so Dominic is also invited to take minutes so that\u0027s a rule now you better not be late you\u0027re late you take minutes okay sorry I should take minutes okay so with this we we have a pretty full agenda so it\u0027s two pages okay so that was the bashing anything anything you want to change about the agenda as proposed so we\u0027ll be talking about the Yucatan static contact sick fucks then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:05",
    "text": "will ever leave you first time at the ATF presenting the sheik of aloha one they know how about the young model they will talk about the progress and the static context for coop and Dominique will update you are update us on the OEM work so that\u0027s a small reminder from last time so we have our first charter item that we have completed and we are working on the second charter item we are really advanced and that is something that we are really happy wait and the the two chairs and the whole working group I think that we can be proud of ourselves and you can be proud of your work so we got all our milestones in green we have submitted everything and so the domain document amend a document that is the shake static header compression is now submitted for it but today is g4 publication and we will it will be passed on to the Secretariat into the RFC editor very very soon so Suresh is going to give us so description so the chic stuff is like gone through the iesg a valid it\u0027s ready for opera so I\u0027m ready to push the button we were expecting one review from Carsten on the side like so we\u0027re kind of holding off for a little bit to see if something comes in so but we are until end of next week before we approve and also like you know Dominic was just telling me like you know there\u0027s some XML v3 XML tar cv3 stuff that requests we change but it doesn\u0027t change the content it only changes the source file so it shouldn\u0027t be a big deal process wise for us to do and the the coop it\u0027s on my ed eval pile it\u0027s like a long pile now so I probably I think I have like 11 documents or something right now so I\u0027ll get to it probably you know I would say about before end of the year for sure and hopefully as soon as possible okay and for the I also talked to the editor I know like Alex did as well and Pascal I know if you are there too at the same time we could go for a expedited request to the RFC editor to make sure that the stuff gets done little bit faster and so you can give the number to externalized years who want it yes sir thank you so much Thresh actually very appreciate it because this you know it\u0027s needed elsewhere we need the service number this picture tells us sort of thing right it tells us that we are really ready to reach author I\u0027m good like I know like you know there\u0027s a chat I\u0027ve been kicking around for quite a bit it\u0027s been pretty stable so whenever you\u0027re ready so we\u0027ll have a discussion on the Charter a bit later or which is now and so you agreed and we\u0027ll just send you in a dated charter and like send me the stuff I\u0027ll kick all the procedures so here the only points on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:06",
    "text": "all the other things are as we discussed a couple of times already so here what we would like to propose is to modify slightly item number one which before was really focused on coop and right now we see that there is a lot of interest in actually having other protocols so the upper layer protocols to abusing shake so we said okay how about we reformulate you know a bit more generic way and to say okay well when if there is some protocol that comes bar over shake then you know we can be charter to to to do that work and that\u0027s fine right like the only thing is like the milestones need to be more precise than this because you cannot say hey I will send borrow or something right like without knowing what bar s but so the chatter can be like a little bit wider but as long as the milestones are known at a point we stop today we will not have any deliverable associated to item one but if somebody comes to the room and say oh I\u0027ve got this technology like we had the LMS from which we would need to add a feature to check then we would be capable of adopting this group because of the first statement but so far and then we would have an item in the in the list but so far there would not be an item that\u0027s fine and like you know adding a milestone is like between you and me right rather than that ESG so I think like another charter like as long as it\u0027s like clear to everybody what needs to get done and the milestones are specific things you already know about I think it\u0027s okay this yeah so you know sign your destruction good to go so with this we can go on to the first presentation from Dominic and so for all people that are first-time on the g---eight attending at the ITF you can go to the IGF web site to meet the meeting materials and then you can see if all the presentations you had all the links there hello so as you may know there was a hackathon weekend before the this week and so the the Czech community had a table at the hackathon and I\u0027m going to tell you did so first of all this is the team about a dozen people showed up the usual suspects Cedric who\u0027s our technical lead wrong so which he from Japan he actually flew in on his own money just to be with us physically usually is removed but this time we decided to come thank you so GE for doing this for us our own as well Olivier a first-timer first time at ATF first time at the hackathon very good technical expertise he did a lot of stuff that we hadn\u0027t done before "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:08",
    "text": "Rahul who\u0027s a long time at the IGF but first time at our table I check he dived into the curve as well and then usual suspects when colors myself son - we had Diego student at University of Chile joining remotely and young local colleague Juan Carlos locally in Singapore and Ryan from Japan and we mostly worked on the open-source implementation of shake which is called open shake and is available in github the link is available here but we also worked some of us also worked on an other implementation so the hackathon goals was to advance the implementation of shake in the open open source implementation and especially touching two drafts one that\u0027s a generic check mechanism and the other one that\u0027s how co-op is compressed by a check so this well the two basis for the work our goals were to clean up the repo because we had quite a few diverging branches before and said we did a lot of work before the hackathon to merge everything so will I clean rebel to start with and then we could remove that code we could rename files restructure the repo etc improve documentation we worked quite that on creating a better dog so that people joining the project can understand why how to work with the code and how to run it and also we improve functionality fixing bugs and already set up the trayvis continuous integration tool so that we have a non regression testing automated and then Juan Carlos diem and Diego worked on the implementation of University de Chile which we nicknamed budget and so yeah great a great lot of activity I think open shake you can\u0027t read that but we had nearly 80 comments on the open shake and you can see you know the graph of everybody active oops everybody working on the on the code 15 staff merging branching etc and it\u0027s all converged into one source code one documentation at the end of the hacker op what we learn what\u0027s left to do for the next hackathons on the the time between hackathons I think we everybody understood the shake specification better by trying and meant it we spotted in one interpretation detail of the specification that right now we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:08",
    "text": "say that the fragment receiver must have an inactivity timer and our own pointed out that in some cases Wendy tag is not used it would be better for the sender to have the inactivity timer as well so that it can guess what the receivers is being doing so that was a useful addition in terms of understanding the specification we spotted a missing element in the data model that that will help the future draft on that we spotted issues of course in European chic implementation that\u0027s the whole purpose of the hackathon we fixed some of them and basically we we realized that more tests on idiot that\u0027s why we put it the test automation in place and we also need to be better at reporting the issues and missing features and so we\u0027re going to use the issues of github better in the future and also because now we have several implementations of shake we started floating the idea of doing an intro next time and we\u0027ll see if this can fly and under which framework that\u0027s it for this one questions on this so thank you very much and Dominic if you can tell us about the next topic okay so this is a second presentation on the shake compression and fragmentation draft so we\u0027re now in ref 22 and as Suresh mentioned we we passed our ESG reviews very happy of that step just for the newcomers in the room I\u0027m going to spend two free slides just to remind you that what this draft is about and then we kept the changes since 105 and what what\u0027s left and what\u0027s ahead of us and then depending on your interest in time we can go through the changes with it on the draft since the last version so sorry for the old timers you\u0027ve seen that couple times already but this draft is really free drafts in one it has the header compression engine specification so it\u0027s a generic engine it is not attached to any upper layer any lower layer it\u0027s just a mechanism to do compression using a static context hence the name shake so typically this would sit here below IP if you want to compress IP headers the same draft also has a fragmentation protocol and this protocol comes in three flavors and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:08",
    "text": "free block boxes here we could have more flavors later on but right now we have free which addresses the needs of various LP one technologies various situations and all the same draft also has a description how you can use that to compress UDP ipv6 in simple situations where you have no extension headers and it\u0027s fairly simple because UDP ipv6 have a fixed fields that occur only once in headers the matching is pretty easy and the compression is party so I see it more as an example of how you write rather than a specification and just to set up the context for this work there are other related drafts that do more than UDP ipv6 compression typically compressing the whole stack about UDP ipv6 and this gets more interesting because now cohab co-op has address that are optional that okay multiple times that are variable sizes and so this gets really more complicated and that\u0027s why we have a separate draft for that and the law is going to talk about it later and then applying shade to various lp1 technology also needs selecting one of the three modes and setting parameters for the fragmentation and that\u0027s why we have drafts for applying shake over sig fogs that bind shake over lower one in and others in B IOT and we have presentations after this one so what has happened the the draft was 72 I see review it went on the agenda on August 4 the agenda of the August 27 is detail a chart which is the meeting between all the IG HT members to discuss new drafts so I wasn\u0027t all Pascal was there as well there was no specific comment on the draft at this point during this telecard which is meant to raise critical issues that would hinder the review so there was none the good thing about this is that because it was on the agenda for this date many of the IG iesg members did a review before that we got quite a lot of reviews in a burst fashion in two to three days before this meeting and so the initial verdict was there were three iesg members who set up discusses so they were not entirely clear or happy "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:11",
    "text": "about this draft and he wanted to engage into a discussion and the good news is that these three are now cleared so here the names of the reviews who provided reviews thank you to all of them for the time they spent and the efforts providing comments and and for some of them in very manual reviews of features in in the draft that they liked or didn\u0027t like we got a few reviews from people who are not on the IC board namely brian carpenter who did the voluntary review got to hear about the draft in reddit and provided comments as well and anyway that\u0027s another one hiding in this list I can\u0027t remember right now yeah I think it\u0027s Rosalie who did the SEC early review or J not and so after that we well we spent nearly two months addressing those comments we get a whole bunch of cons and the the net result just within a few numbers is thirty-six comets on the source code for the draft and about you know a few hundred lines that were changed out of three thousand which is the source code for the draft but 10% of the the source code of the draft has changed as a result of this review so I\u0027m very thankful for the all the reviews we got and I think it really helped improve the document in various ways but I\u0027m going to describe later and so we engaged in conversation we\u0027ve all the reviewers suggesting what changes we would do and pointing them at the Comets in the gate so that they could clearly see what changes resulted from their comments and most of them gave us their approval and so we knew we were fine by publishing the next version as a result of this discussion and this was all changes the free discusses were cleared so now we\u0027re on our way to RFC editing so what\u0027s coming up next push in the R or C idea to keep today well optimistic by saying today it\u0027s probably going to be in the next few days because I just had a chat with the RFC editor in the hall and I realized well they helped me realize right now we have tables in the draft that appear as ASCII art and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:11",
    "text": "they want this to appear stable so that it\u0027s structured in the document and so it is them doing the change and as you know sorry it was a noticing later on us doing the change in XML oh it\u0027s establishing a new version in v2 that has a table which markdown which we use for the editing the document can do for us so I\u0027m going to rip in the document and make the tables appear has real tables not ASCII art so it\u0027s a minor change technical change on a document not on in the content this will give a few days maybe for custom to provide the review that he meant to provide regarding fragmentation and hopefully we can push that to our see editor in the next few days pass that in January speaking we want to communicate and educate the community about check that\u0027s the whole purpose of having the open check code writing papers having presentation teaching courses at universities about check which Georgia\u0027s just set up a seventy slides course and check that\u0027s material for us to educate people about check continue the open check development at the hackathons and between hackathons and evaluate performance applicability and again academics have students working on that as we speak and already publishing about that another piece of information that I thought would be useful is the current uses of shake so of course we have drafts at the IETF using shape the ones I mentioned before compressing cooperate check over six four one nine baat that we\u0027re going to hear about next and there are couple demos that are being shown for a few years already of course UDP ipv6 compression or lore but more recently the LMS UDP I\u0027ll give it six compression overall was this month I think very recent at orange we show the demo of compressing the coop headers over LTE M so LT m is IP protocol so we\u0027re not trying to compress the IP headers but just the coop header or all TM and evaluative if this makes sense but the benefit of that in terms of power consumption and airtime occupation and we had a demo with Akio and I mean how can you in Cisco had a demo doing SSH over with shit under evaluation we have Daniel me go with Erickson evaluating your ipsec ESP "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:12",
    "text": "header compression Rick instead of building his own compression specification just using shake as generic mechanism in a prior to his be a head of compression implementations I already mentioned open shake which is patent free originally we said it would be it would micro Python and run on PI comma PI comes devices use a flavor of non-standard flavor of micro Python and quickly we had so much we\u0027d spend so much time fiddling with the hardware RAID Europe icons that we decided we would run micro - on computers and micro Python is a variant of - free so we ended up running passion free plain old - free just to advance our implementation quicker so right now the status is that open check is mostly patient free and that\u0027s what we we working most actively on again the URL to the source to the wrapper is here actually private company has as far as understood free implementations when in go language - indeed for their high-end and low-end of IOT devices university of chile has an implementation in the Python flavor of micro passion and our friends that ride have been saying it implements shaking right but it\u0027s not committed yet so we\u0027re looking at five known implementations today and probably a 6-1 coming soon that\u0027s why we think we can start talking about Interop and also as I mentioned scientific papers are being published in check so it\u0027s becoming you know more visible in the community the first one here is by the this draft code first the second one is by some of the district office and they\u0027re close and the third one is by totally unrelated to the she craft offers at University of Kent in the Netherland and so it\u0027s showing that there is a growing interest in a community to this protocol okay so changes since the twenty-first most changes are the consequence of the isg reviews and a few reviews we got besides oh yes gee I\u0027ve classified them in three categories the functional changes is this huge ones because you shouldn\u0027t expect to change the functionality after iesg review so i\u0027ve classified as functional changes to changes one is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:12",
    "text": "mistake in the description of our always so it\u0027s not a functional change is a change in the text that reflects functionality but the algorithm was intended to work the way it\u0027s described now so the algorithm hasn\u0027t changed that the description was wrong actually and that was me rewriting it clean slate a year ago when we changed the way we describe the algorithms I started again from a blank page and it\u0027s well you wouldn\u0027t expect such a mistake to be in the draft at this stage but anyway this happened and thanks very much to Benjamin Carrick for spotting this and you know it\u0027s a security area expert and he went so far than in the explanations you know following the iterations of the state machines and his potato mistakingly in the details of state machine which nobody else in this group was supposed to look at the state machine did so thank you so much to him this avoids us writing an errata later on which is always embarrassing if you beat this guy in the corridors you can thank him for being so thorough and I\u0027ve also classified as a function change the fact that we rewrote appended F this was some text that was originally in the main part of the document that we\u0027d moved to an appendix because we did not quite know what to do with it and accurately so the IHG reviews spotted that this was a bit fuzzy and they were right so the so we rephrase the problem that the problem is that two of the three modes of fragmentation are bi-directional protocols they need acts to do selective retransmission so because they are bi-directional protocols they require a better bi-directional link otherwise they don\u0027t work of course and some of the lp1 technologies we are talking about are not quite variation without what we call quasi bi-directional so there is a downlink channel but the downlink channel is only enabled right after an uplink transmission this is a case for Class A mood of rora when this is kids for Sick Fox for example and so running bi-directional protocol over a quasi bi-directional link is a bit difficult and appendix F provided a solution but the solution may not be required there might be other reasons why your you have the pureed up links like you have an application that\u0027s doing a sending keepalive messages and therefore it\u0027s providing opportunities for downlink transmission so maybe you have nothing to do because of the application is keeping this downlink channel open for you maybe in some cases you don\u0027t have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:12",
    "text": "such a place for any reason so maybe you have to do something about and so we decided that this draft was about the generate mechanism for compression and fragmentation and rather than provide a solution to a specific case of specific lp1 technologies we would just state that we need a bi-directional link and you may have to do something special if you\u0027re running over quasi bi-directional names and we leave it to the she cover food rafts to if you need to do something and in that case what do you do so that is a change that I would qualify as functional the second category of changes were related to security considerations actually most of the ISE review comments we got and suddenly most of the discussed points where on the security considerations and we are not security experts this is nuts the security community so you one could expect that I\u0027m not too surprised so we did a major rewrite of that of that section again we added more cases that were suggested by security expert oh you sure there is a known attack on compression algorithms there is no NAT icon using fragmentation protocols which is this in that how\u0027d you fare in that respect in oh we didn\u0027t know so we had to understand what the attack was and was it applicable to our case or was it not and we responded so again free in the free name is at the bottom also security experts some of changes were editorial one changed suggested by Alicia Cooper was the change of reference be normative so we had a little bit of discussion with ration what was best but we implemented that change made it normative there was one remaining mistake about the RC in 21 one nine language which which was the use the use of the optional keyword capitalized which had not done properly we fixed the reference and we mature all appendices were reference from the text you know which is good editorial practice and then basically we did a bunch of improvements in the text improve definition see proof descriptions well yeah you can go over the list and that\u0027s it for me so thank you very much the Minich thanks for all this enormous amount of work that has been done since the last HF and thanks to all the authors and all the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:12",
    "text": "reviewers it\u0027s really an amazing piece of work and yeah thank you that\u0027s so we are perfectly in the timing so next on our list is Juan Carlos LP whatever sick fucks - Carlos Zuniga with sick Fox so I\u0027m going to talk about the draft ITF he\u0027ll be one over sick fucks and the updates we we\u0027ve done as well as the five shake implementation that Diego Sandra and Rodrigo have worked out from University of Chile so regarding the draft we added a few more parameters for the icon or data fragmentation and integrity mode specifically we were looking at the the fragmentation mode to send this to use cases a text file of 53 bytes and small image of 356 bytes and for that we were relying on the on the implementation that Sandra presented last time from University of Chile off I shake which was very very useful so let me jump to the next one this is the turkey picture that we were trying for the hackathon as Dominic was explaining in our case we were using the the five shake on the device this was of a PyCon device and the server side we were running it on the Google cloud using the tutorial from Marku from Google cloud platform that allowed during the api\u0027s to the cloud and it runs pretty well it helped us fine-tune and find out a few interesting things that we want to work on the draft the architecture of the code this is what University of Chile is doing they are trying to do it modular so that they can run it equally on laura1 or seek Foxx reusing as much as possible the code in this case we were concentrating on the icon error mode for the fragmentation the profile that we were trying of course was sick fox the device platform was vikon so the python code in the application running on the Google Cloud I guess if you have questions feel free to ask Sandra or da WA but order Rodri what about the details of the software coming back to the to the draft in Dominic I mentioned there are very interesting findings and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:13",
    "text": "that\u0027s one of the beauties of the hackathon in this case for us it was for instance on the on the usage of the all one fragment because again the draft that gives you flexibility on how you implement it and this is related to the downlink transmission that you were mentioning Dominic for us of course there\u0027s only one mode of operation in insig Fox which is you send uplink messages and only if you if the device requests it can open the the window to receive the downlink so we are only doing that at the end of every window so that we can allow they all zero or they all want to come back and for the for the last all one because of the uncertainty on on when it can arrive in the in the window we think that it would be helpful to rely on the on the sea Fox sequence number that comes from the from the layer two as information and then we can we can relate and find out if this is a if if they\u0027re all one is arriving at the right time so this is not yet in the in the draft but that\u0027s kind of the things that we we definitely want to keep improving and fine-tune same thing for the timers and and in the header fields tried a few a few different files and sizes and now that we\u0027re getting more comfortable with this other application the idea of Interop came up Sandra was very keen on on on proposing this and hopefully they will be attending the next IETF meeting that sells so the vancouver could be a good opportunity to and we\u0027re at perfect time right now to start planning on how we can work out different combinations of of the of the at least three that I know implementations and the two radio technologies Julia hello hello jr. its you\u0027re on the you have a mic okay so you rely on a thick fog sequence number you what you expected to so does that mean that you only suppose that your device is only transmitting sheik frank packets sheikh fragments so no other payloads are available well in fact this is the this is information that you always get from layer two and what we are doing is in case the information is being used to feed as seek fox function sorry a sheikh function this the sheikh function can realign not only on the payload but also on the metadata that is coming from from layer two in this case the sequence number and then it can improve the behavior of sheikh based on that metadata but i think the question was what happens if a packet is interleaved between fragments a packet or I\u0027m trying to rephrase what I understand is what happened if a non fragment packet even "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:14",
    "text": "not a sheikh packet is transmitted between two fragments then to this layer to sequence counter will increase but there\u0027s nothing to do with fragmentation so entirely human interleaving yes yes yeah well I guess that depends on the application and whether you are indeed support literally couldn\u0027t that become a problem with you if you use the sequence counter to figure out the shake fragmentation mechanism I think she is asking us if you won\u0027t have a prime if there isn\u0027t a lift back yet is that right jr. yes that\u0027s right actually that\u0027s what we supposed in laura1 implementation that we could not rely on how to a sequence number because of that actually because I\u0027ve interleaving okay yeah well in this case I think we keep track of the the the I\u0027m not familiar with the the way the Laura sequence numbering works in this case is sequential but and it\u0027s per per device so so as long as the the overall engine in the device keeps track of the of the increasing sequence number you can you can get it but yeah maybe maybe we can discuss this offline and see if we can solve the problem for bolt and one shot okay thanks so probably thanks actually for that question probably if you would like to do this kind of optimization then that could be discussed in the group and to see what would be the conditions necessary to use this kind of optimization or you know because maybe you can say okay if in this in to to use this optimization you only need to do fragmentation until the session is complete for example without interleaving yeah that will be hard so and maybe there is something to work on and I think that\u0027s very interesting to have this work you know maybe this exchange between the different technology documents maybe have a small draft I\u0027m not sure it can but maybe both of the drafts can specify how that would work okay or have like one common document that says okay optimization of like using a sequence of layer two sequence number four that use and then you can have like a kind of suit conditions okay what\u0027s necessary in order that operation to be to be made and get leaders sounds like a good thing to have and just wonder if it\u0027s not one of those things that could be in a profile or something if if really we can agree on a method where the layer to a number is useful then it could be something that goes in a profiles it can be enough or some technologies can use it and some not but yes I mean if it\u0027s doable at all we need to to the queue which conditions like maybe no interleaving and then we would document exactly what you win if you do this optimization right but the protocol works without it employee yeah okay and I think that the last light for me does anybody have any questions okay so I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:14",
    "text": "have one or two minor questions the first one is do you think that for the next IDF the the document will be you know ready for like adopting all the changes that have been made to the general shake a document and eventually ready for working good last call so that\u0027ll be my mind my hope definitely for from excited yes to have it ready okay and the second thing is if you can if you have reviewed the data model that law has been working to just to make sure that all the things that are there actually my map to to to your to your draft so that you know we know that the data model corresponds to something that is used and that everything that you need is also in the data model took it so okay great thank you very much now we have Olivier first time at the ATF so big stress so the quad is ugly they will throw things at you ready everybody hearing you\u0027ve got 15 minutes so I will present the changes on Lauren documents what we did since last ATF meeting some technical points of that document and discuss the next step with you since last IDF meeting we had to draft published very useful feedback from the walking ribs so we will discuss at rest after so the changes in version 3 we sank so Julian proposition we unify the overhead size because we had a proposition with one by to read and to buy to read the depending of the size of the packet and we we try to reduce it to one bite on me which is pretty nice on embedded devices which mean that the the cheeky there is no two bytes and one bytes is the whole ID which can be linked to the law 1f port for those who don\u0027t know law and technology GF bot is a abide embedded in the protocol which allows to differentiate application traffic like the port on TCP computer or UDP computer so would ID match that definition and we we squeeze one bytes inside we did it the ID tag the tag has been created to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:17",
    "text": "intercession which we do not want to use in law one but we try to keep it when we had some space in the header so we have faster recovery if we lose some messages en but to be able to to squash the overhead in WA bite we had to to put it to the it size to zero and avoid using it which is finding the protocol it\u0027s it\u0027s still working so it\u0027s not an issue we change the tile size to apply baths which was not a good idea well this is it in register for there was a comments that the padding value we are not explicit so it\u0027s now it\u0027s not easy to zero we added some examples fixed exam because there were some mistakes in there and did a lot of terminology typos and lately toil updates so the document is easier to read I think we still have some welcome that to do and as she Liam contributed a lot directly in the document he has been made an editor and we\u0027ll discuss that in version 4 because there had been some discussion in ITF interim so who should be editor which would be hotel and as we almost all new to ATF on that document at least on current editor we do everything so what changing issue for it happens that we misunderstood something when we set the tile bytes to 5 so we we were limited to something lower than ipv6 and to you which were somewhere like 120 1265 so we were missing 15 bytes too much IPCC thank you we had to change it to something bigger there was the option to take six seven eight nine we with which to ten because it fits it\u0027s another feat to although I wanna MTU which goes from 11 bytes to 242 bytes with lot of values in between so it was a more efficient the whole I decide even that has been fixed to I\u0027d be a bit because at lower one SF 10 which is the minimum payload you can have in u.s. you can only have 11 bytes of payload so there is no room to expand the whole idea anymore but we don\u0027t think it\u0027s an issue if you have any "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:17",
    "text": "comment on that we would be able to discuss it Dabu top have just a quick question Kalki Koechlin question you said before that you use the f-prot for the world ID and you cannot use the 8 bits in in f Burton and hear you say it maybe it was a mistake from my cell we use a war lifeboat for the whole ID so we have a bit you when life port is limited to 224 yes a bit okay no no sorry okay so yes good good question another one some effort values are reserved like the value 0 and value more than 223 but it\u0027s not an issue it live 222 values for the whole ID - f epinephrine which are used for the fragmentation so you have 220 values for the whole IDs it enough ok then another good thing to have bigger tires is that we have a smaller acknowledge because the bitmap size is reduced so it\u0027s right from network donning capacity we included the multicast proposition we are open to excuse it it will be in the detail at inequality rafters and we move back Julian from editor to contributor since last IDF meeting there were experienced IDF us who advised that so is another view of what is a regular fragment so maybe it will help you to understand what were discussing about okay so there is the Aloha one heater inside the heater which is by the way not aligned on that diagram sorry you have see you cannot you have something dedicated to lower one we will not discuss it there you can have some option hearings it\u0027s example is four bytes but it can be 0 even of what Lawrence Tech need to transmit to the network server then you are all ID which is the airport one bite and you have your Darwin payload which will be in this case the payload with two bits windows who we have four windows DF count and your useful payload depending on the loja one empty you it can be one tiles or more in this example Perl it\u0027s 323 twice why you did not aligned Aloha "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:17",
    "text": "one payload to the rule ID I thought the rule ID was in the airport which is yes Heather it\u0027s the initial an I change the presentation two days ago to have better graphics and I think I made a mistake through the law one payload should be aligned after the whole idea sorry let\u0027s finish and it never works and you have a typo in the name of the draft yeah I had that a few minutes ago I change a master slide I think so it works on the first one and nothing the others sorry so next steps ipv6 and law did you use the one I sent you yesterday or the day before well it\u0027s okay I\u0027ll manage it [Music] it\u0027s my fault I sent two drafts of two documents so ipv6 and Lauren are multicast technologies so we we try to figure out what you way to make them work together so for that multicast the only links we selected the fragmentation mod Noack because we can\u0027t have all the ICS answering to at the same time it will be a nightmare on the network so we have no real ability and shunned by the chick layer it would be up to the year per layer to have reliability whether by forward error correction or whatever other Ito that can be used the coop definition and the lower one only who for class a device are out of scope of the document because each network several different way to the crack groups but for the lower one meeting points for class II devices there is already a specification application not made by zero Aryans I think it\u0027s not an issue here and it will be an optional feature so if you have any comments you want to make on that please to them whether now or by after the the meeting or in the by email on the mailing list because it\u0027s it might be new on discussion on chick so we are waiting for feedback one side is missing I wanted to discuss you the with you the device identifier I adapted already the draft I included that proposition in my last slide but it\u0027s not here sorry so so do you have a practical use case for multicast already this is described it yes female bird which is not thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:19",
    "text": "made by Loen specification the relevant recommendation like the EMS EMS is a standard many using meters they like electricity or water meters they want to be able to do fumer glide thanks to the LMS and not rely on law 1 meter so we need Malika\u0027s for that because I have a feeling that truly the amount of reliable fragments that we have in Sheikh today are for unicast but I also have the feeling that those those mines who produced what we already have a capable of producing as well reliable multicast mechanism and so I was wondering if we could consider that type of effort if the use cases are you know important enough for this community whether we could consider of you know start thinking about a reliable multicast for basically downstream help you want and they see some smiles is it all or is it oh yeah it\u0027s interesting ok so please come to them to the mailing list and let\u0027s discuss the importance of the use cases and see if we are interested in having a new real reliable multicast fragmentation because sending out those fragments if you have many fragments and not having any reliability doesn\u0027t seem like a good idea to me each for each destination you will use maybe one fragment not the same one and then you\u0027re stuck for everybody it seems like either you do a lot of fake which is a waste or or maybe you want to be able to retry individually in unicast which is what we usually do in that case and that would require probably a new draft in this group they would like to see that Julian on the on the mic yes another link so you have the mic yeah can you hear me ok so my opinion here is that I don\u0027t want to delay the she cover one document to be published because of multicast because I have this feeling as you said last call that it\u0027s not it\u0027s not yet ready in our mind Oh mysticus could be used in chicken and lp1 in general so my opinion is that what we did in Chico valera one draft is a simple assumption that we could use a sheik and Chico Valera one for multicast but we didn\u0027t get into the details and I think it\u0027s sufficient for this first version make sense I\u0027m not advocating that we delay this document for multicast am also getting that we start doing a generic multicast work right for reliable fragments so that later we can have some specs in the technologies if they needed yes sure but on the second step right yes a second step exactly okay I think we all agree on that list great thanks so Juan Carlos just one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:22",
    "text": "color swing yeah I supported the idea of a very much I\u0027m very interested in this multicast discussion but I don\u0027t see the need to delay any of the existing drafts that\u0027s only topics for real chartering and and continuing the work defined what what goes in the rich chapter because we are talking about the rich outer and we don\u0027t have an item for a label multicast and the question is do we add add item for this yep okay so if you move on slide further yeah thank you for the a better than slide you see that there is no motor guessing so on the IDE we just put that under the new draft which will be might be graph 5 it is recommended to create to create interface and identifier following specification RSV is 72 970 sorry and Ric 80s 64 the other author discussing should be removed 84 we add 85 86 t43 so if you have any input for us on that we would be more than happy to take it because we don\u0027t know really how to to manage it we don\u0027t want agreement the wheel and just stick to what RS he recommends then the 10 for the last five will be the IDS there is some typos left and document cleanup to do there is a new chapter to add on the bidirectionality of law and Chico palawan like Dominic explained we might need to find a shepherd one day or another so if there is any anyone who\u0027s feeling that might fit we would be more than happy to to accept Connie letter and we would like some feedback before because we hope to put the document in last call in draft five or so okay so do you have any question I have one comment about item one I think that we need to include those that are in in this stuck in discussion so we can actually start a thread on the mailing list and invite Dave so you should start this right i will copy day for i can\u0027t even start it myself if you prefer and so we will talk about the IAD selection yes that\u0027s that\u0027s a very good point because obviously you want something stable because you\u0027re compressing it so 64 is good and then privacy I don\u0027t know so 65 we have to look at but basically get recommendation from Dave would be certainly interesting so let\u0027s include him in the discussion in the mailing list and ok so I think that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:28",
    "text": "we we have already a excellent candidate for for the shepherding so that\u0027s going to cause any problem I think so do you think that you\u0027ll be ready for a working last call by the next IGF even well I hope so okay and one last thing so if you have not looked already at the the data model from Mara home can you make sure to read it and you know to make sure that everything that is there is pertinent to to what you\u0027re doing and know that everything that you need is also their heritage okay perfect thank you very much [Music] okay so I gonna talk first about that time model so right now there is no more data model because the drafts expire but I will renew it soon and in fact we we continue we work on it okay so I switched to coop so here the draft is is ready because it\u0027s in a eg and now so we are in version 11 of the draft and go for her now and wicked wanderson okay so during last year if we move from v9 to v 11 and we make some editorial change to comply with viz format so to be so the dreyfus will is compatible with bc p 14 we also modified the abstract to be more precise on what we are doing and we also changed reference because ask or move from draft to to RFC so it has been submitted for edgy for publication and now we are expecting a return from edgy on on the draft so that\u0027s all for this one well okay so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:38",
    "text": "just when we switch so just upload it also the datum the yang data model so what you see here you\u0027re also going to find it on the under data tracker so before we switch to that a couple of questions about your of the coop draft so it is so Pascal is the shepherd the reviewers so next step on on on this one it is then going to be reviewed by the 80s and it since it\u0027s in in stores hands yeah yeah that\u0027s the description as I said before it\u0027s in my queue and I really hope to get it soon let\u0027s say within a month like before Christmas I want to get it off the ad well pal so you can work all the holidays and get it ready in January okay yeah so go back to the data model so as I said just before now as the draft has expired but we will publish soon a new version and so it was not useful just to renew the number but to work during that time I walk a little bit more on the young model for for chic so the idea is to reproduce what we have in the draft currently she grasped it\u0027s a table that has no no real structure it\u0027s just an explanation of what is a rule but it doesn\u0027t define formally word out to write it so here you have young model that describe what is a rule so you have a ridy and then you can have ever a fragmentation information or compression information and compression information is a table with fidelity and parish operator on it and it\u0027s described on on this model so it\u0027s just a starting point now we have to work more on it to improve it and to make it really compatible with all the young young spirit young spirit but I think it\u0027s in in a good way and of course via Catherine L palace also to understand what we need to put in the rule especially for fragmentation so for compression is quite clear because the draft explained a lot of a lot of things so so now what I say we need to have some input from Sheikh implementers to see what you really need really need to put in young medellín for young community for compatibility with wrong model so as I say I will publish a new version with what we have done during "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:39",
    "text": "the past weeks month and then it will be a starting point to discuss on this model and so my suggestion will be to put that item in the next entry meeting we will have and make all the group work on on this yes do you have any questions on that so that there is one point that\u0027s really important here is for it\u0027s especially for the for the - for the further technology drafts is to talk to to the hall and and Anna may be one of the next interims to make sure that you understand that you agree with this structure so once we agree in the group that it\u0027s good for us then we can go to the yang doctors and they can say yeah that\u0027s like the way the yang should be formatted you know and make sure that it also makes sense from the from the end point of view but it\u0027s really important point to formalize this so that we can have a generic way to represent shake contexts so things remember so yes and with this one we move to the next presentation so we have time the mood so take the time you need okay so this is just a quick reminder of this draft which has expired haven\u0027t we needed for capita ETFs we started writing this before I took active participation in the other drive - a craft which kept me busy quite a lot so just to remind people what this is about it\u0027s about how using how to use a shake to do om operation administration and management of IOT devices so the idea is to do the usual stuff that you\u0027d expect with an IP network we were saying with shake allows us to bring IP to these IOT networks and so if you bring IP you bring a set of expectations from the engineers technicians that since its IP we can do pings and trace routes and to get ICMP our messages for example when a destination is not reachable and so this draft is first a discussion on what people expect with an IP network "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:39",
    "text": "and which is realistic to implement with lg1 in the IP enabled networks so firstly needs to be a useless discussion what we want to do what kind of messages do we want to relay on the actual human network what kind of responses or messages we can proxy at the call before we get on to the constraint length the yl t1 link and and and then we\u0027ll work on applying shake to achieve that and namely you can do header compression pretty easy to had a compression on icmpv6 messages starting from the simple ones in our three four four four one the fourth over three so this is a reprint of a slide that I showed that long time ago listing the various cases and asking questions do we want this to happen do we want this to happen so I\u0027m not going to go again in this discussion since we haven\u0027t worked on that for at least a year so basically we suddenly expect a few things to happen like a host on the internet pinging an IOT device that is IP enabled for shakey we expected to get an echo reply to its equal request messages we expect this device on the Internet to receive an ipv6 response and now the question is shall those be propagated all the way down to the device and the response be probably get back with check compression or said it shall be proxied at the echo here and we have to go through that discussion yeah that\u0027s what I promised we would do as soon as the mainsheet draft is out of door which is going to happen the next few days so I\u0027m expected discussion to resume shortly and again that was just a reminder of we have season ahead of us questions okay thank you so much them unique we have no question so what we\u0027d like to do is since we have a little bit of time is we\u0027d like to bring up the chat Oh text from the fine-tuned it based on what we just discussed so the two discussions the two changes that may arise in the Charter for one is the one that we presented earlier that we won\u0027t item one to be about maintenance so basically any change that would be required in the Schick "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:40",
    "text": "mechanisms for new protocol for new above over shake so that\u0027s one change and the other change that we just discussed today is to accept new work on reliable multicast which means I guess mostly for you know downstream multicast so there is this packet for number of nodes and some notes missed some fragments and we want to be able to recall those fragments so basically what we would like to do now is just share an editor session and agree with you guys on the tags that we want to see there since we have suresh in the room let\u0027s just benefit from that and basically at the end of these meetings we would be sending you the chatter can you make it larger as you can the National phones even more as you can so the beginning doesn\u0027t change much and I\u0027d let you know that the intro is just intro let\u0027s go to the bottom so this is the point one do we wanted to agree on this text the way it is is the Hydra challenge so that\u0027s the one where we say what new bar / / shake so trying to come on so meaning that if the Sheikh mechanism itself needs to be changed for need of our new bar description so I understand what it means but I don\u0027t think like borrow or shake it\u0027s like a good formulation of that so to enable new protocols yeah new upper layer protocols or shake or something like that so we enable them we don\u0027t define them so the idea would be to enable the compression of new protocols and if you want you can say other than Koya sorry other than co-op in addition energy upper layer protocols other than coop / shake I mean you want to see other than coop written or in addition or do you want white a point on of pointing I guess like we have already coop right right so I you can just leave it as as if you want you know how to put a - just say or for upper layer protocols over chicken I can explain if somebody asks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:41",
    "text": "like it\u0027s like other than quad since we did it I thought like you\u0027ll just avoid a question but it\u0027s fine it\u0027s not a big deal so the sentence is a bit awkward now in including standard tracks document to enable other including stun attract keep including but move stock Pascal I think you can just leave odds channel track that\u0027s it you can say chic maintenance including enabling upper layer protocols or that\u0027s it okay so that\u0027s item one well I don\u0027t quite like the upper layer protocol over shake it looks like you\u0027re changing your protocol to enable it to run over shake it anybody makes a compression the compression of any compression it\u0027s not just compression so chic mechanisms chic mechanisms for new upper layer protocols well technically it\u0027s mostly compression there\u0027s nothing in fragmentation well the first thing we\u0027re gonna do is a poly a protocol which needs which needs reliable fragments but okay so item two I\u0027ll do are we in ninety five time one is there so we all know what we want to do there it\u0027s just that is it you know understandable from the perspective of Deadshot JoJo\u0027s from Jabbar should propose other upper layer one co-op that what\u0027s the point of keep it simple so let\u0027s move to item two and I can to would be about new stuff attract work for reliable multicast don\u0027t stream enabled it went again so do we want to so it\u0027s a ten well yes in the Middle East we need to insert it start track the command to provide reliable fragment multicast we\u0027re able because yes we have yes we want reliable multicast for downstream fragments photon stream fragments yep does that work yes no hope I\u0027m not sure really bullies I think it\u0027s too strong because you can imagine a group or you say only 90 percent of the device can receive this so it\u0027s not variable but it\u0027s so on we never walk on whiticus so for me multicast alone will be better yeah but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:45",
    "text": "we already a frantic as for unreliable music we never tested just using the radio to multicast we don\u0027t take every try it so I mean it\u0027s kind of already there will you have it in the loja document issue like so so maybe recoverable or something so what really needed is something to recover some missing fragments right but but in a multicast fashion you know the address Eugenia speaking I want to this is a fragment every because if you use forward error correction you will not have out from under it but we you will have the upper message delivered so you don\u0027t you don\u0027t want necessary all five months to be received by the by the device actually that\u0027s what the upper layer has its own for what they are collection or something right if you do that you say you had an overhead of 10% each messages so you can it\u0027s like ridiculous 10% so you don\u0027t want to put multicast fragment delivery it\u0027s not because you can lose fragments so you it\u0027s same the color the algorithm but if you have some recollection that you poly here I mean then you don\u0027t need us you can use the unreliable fragment and put as much focus you need at the upper layer give it but then there\u0027s no need for us to do any work do you do you know today that the readability tests don\u0027t link on cheek will not use forward error correction do you know it today so you can\u0027t put that here but all I\u0027m saying is if you if you have if if you want the defect to be part of cheek then we need to standardize it a sharpie if you want effect to be at the upper layer because you have redundancy on something then it\u0027s not that is not what everything is we can use if we can use several meter to achieve multicast fragment delivery and she clear-- one of them might be I don\u0027t know for whatever correction it\u0027s part of making it more reliable right yeah but if you lose if you do for our collection you can allow losing fragments yeah you are putting that you want to provide a multicast I\u0027m on delivery but we can lose them so I think we should remove reliable delivery of fragmented packets maybe because that doesn\u0027t include that the fragments are are recovered but the packet itself is reliably Apogee it\u0027s not random variable delivery of mode of a fragmented packet various packets of multicast did the most remote guess somewhere "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:51",
    "text": "and to conquer this when you get here I\u0027m not it\u0027s getting confusing every time yes I\u0027m not sure that\u0027s coping and I\u0027d like to concede it a bit more sorry so I want I wonder if we want to also address security of the multicast channel so I think you\u0027ve got longer but it didn\u0027t address like Lana\u0027s point I\u0027d like because Lana\u0027s point still remains it\u0027s not reliable so so the intent is to have some kind of acknowledged mechanism is that what you\u0027re looking for like if you have some idea of like you know how this is gonna look like we don\u0027t have a nature if it\u0027s acknowledgment or whatever correction of an ibrid arc or anything like that the bottom line would be we want to improve the reliability of the mountain I think like that\u0027s kind of this right like standard stack document that like you know provides an improved mechanism for delivery do provide improve reliability it\u0027s wrong off to take sir I didn\u0027t catch what you said can you please repeat so that provide an improved making it up for that describes an improvement mechanism for increasing ISM so we go through this long but at least address this is fine right like so that\u0027s kind of our suggesting I there\u0027s no easy formulation for this right because it\u0027s not reliable but we already have multicast delivery so it\u0027s a very small niche right but you\u0027re trying to fill because at the end end result it\u0027s not going to be fully reliable either right so we want a more reliable delivery of multicast packets that go fragmented yeah but it\u0027s long - so like I\u0027m just saying it the the problem areas niche so you\u0027re not gonna have like a easy statement of this right so I think like you know just describe what you wanna do just say like try to improve the reliability of multicast fragment delivery that\u0027s that\u0027s really what you\u0027re trying to do improve the delivery of multicast packets that are fragmented right mechanism to improve the delivery improve the reliability delivering multicast packets reliability of delivering multicast packets Lauren did that work for you all right it\u0027s missing the fragment because if it\u0027s not fragmented that is a multicast fragments well now we are back to LEDs primary which is it\u0027s not the fragment that we want to so it\u0027s the fragmented packet of fragment sheet multicast packets something we take ap packets and then we compress them so if we have an IP multicast packet then we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:52",
    "text": "have to improve the way with the riverbeast so sentence here which I will keep so I will but efficiency more venerability and multicast packet if you can see is good I like it it\u0027s too high it\u0027s too card we\u0027re not trying to achieve reliable delivery of fragments we\u0027re attempting to achieve reliable delivery of data that just happens to be fragmented yes and I don\u0027t think we need to talk about improve the reliability because no one expects 100.0 percent reliable reliable is is is a different word from assured right assured talks about you\u0027ve got it and you got some kind of acknowledgment that you got it whereas reliable is can include statistical reliability now having just said that we\u0027re not trying to achieve reliable delivery of fragments I will now reverse myself and say that one way to achieve reliable delivery of data that is fragmented is to use a type 2 hybrid air Q FEC such as is standardized in RFC 57:40 at the transport layer okay so final attempt like change the multicast fragments to fragmented multicast packets okay I\u0027m done Thanks we say improve liability right so it gives us some some room for imperfection okay so that sounds it sounds so do you how does the room feel can you give a hum on this on the second point so if you agree with this formulation and that and that okay do you agree with this formulation please come now you should agree okay yeah if you disagree please come now okay so nobody\u0027s nobody\u0027s coming so then that that\u0027s that\u0027s good so sorry but yeah okay we need to confirm that to this one on the list maybe we can have it so the other ones are basically topics that we have discussed for a couple of IPS now so I think this one was the hot new I mean the new topic that came from recent discussions hi Carlos Gomez in Montreal "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:58",
    "text": "we discussed also the idea of working on RTO for lp1 so I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s kind of independent from the points here or yes I don\u0027t so yeah we we had your presentation I\u0027m not sure if that one gets discussed further on the mailing list so I don\u0027t know if we need to add this one also working as an item that we would like to work guys I\u0027m sorry but I\u0027ve not seen enough activity right now to feel confident that the group wants it so you can post it as a response who will post that we said a the mailing list we are there we are desert geo discussion kind of know and if we see enough noise on the on the mailing list to support that we also include out you will propose to Suresh I\u0027ve not seen so far that I would I would not feel safe right now I\u0027m sorry yeah maybe 11.2 to add on this one is I feel that with this five points we\u0027ll have a lot of work for the next couple of months I I did like your your work so probably if you continue you know developing the work we\u0027ll be able to include it next time when we if we do a smaller charter you know that I think that can be fairly easy to achieve compared to you know the points that we have here so please continue the work I think it\u0027s I feel that is something valuable and we can include it so Suresh thank you thank you everyone this is the end of the meeting will confirm this on the mailing list and we\u0027ll end the rich are huh thank you just when one point about point four I think it will be better to put it after point one because it\u0027s in your bar and then the rest okay we\u0027ll remember thank you thank you all and thank you for the wonderful work and see you in thank you you "
  }
]