[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:15",
    "text": "you how many people can we have in gallery of you and me ago these days i actually don't it's been a while since i actually participated in something in me ago besides just watching so i think the grid view should go to 25 but we'll find out i would like everybody to share a video if you're comfortable doing so again for this to be a team meeting do be aware as we're going through this meeting since we are using medico unless we um make a special exception the recording of this will end up as a um posted to youtube as materials for the tools team interim meeting that it's set up under just trying audio again it worked that time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "a couple of minutes for more people to join all right we'll go ahead and get started um thank you everyone for joining i'm seeing a few names on the the roster i don't recognize um for those of you that have not been to one of these before this is a coordination meeting between the people that are developing the tools and the folks they're deploying the tools and the larger uses of the tools like the rpc and iana in groups like that the meeting is open um we don't mind having people around but if you're if you don't have your hands deeply in things please try not to interrupt our flow as we're moving along do feel free to ask questions but we do have a pretty tight agenda that we need to get through in this hour so let's start again by reminding people that this is recorded and unlike um our previous"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "instances of this it will end up um pushed to youtube and attached to materials for the interim meeting that this was set up under as an inner meeting of the tools team so let's start off with the hot topics alice reports that we don't have any rfc blocking production issues to study um as we noted at the the last meeting we are planning to do a rebuild of ietfa um glenn has started this and indicates in the notes that because of time constraints on him it's slipping into late february that we'll be likely to have this ready for transition hopefully we can start transition earlier than that i'm sorry start the testing earlier than that glenn glenn are you here i i am here can you hear me yeah i can hear you now i'm sorry uh yes i hope the testing can begin as soon as possible okay so um folks should be aware of the uh important dates for um ietf 113 as we're talking about making this fairly major transition it looks like that um we've got a narrow window between when the schedule is published and we get into the the crunch of draft submissions so we'll have to choose our cut over date fairly carefully in that window or consider what it would mean to wait to move to the new instance until after 1 13. i would prefer not to wait if we can there are some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "pretty important improvements coming in with the newer operating system and the newer hardware that would be um good to get on we talked last time briefly about trying to get the lists that are currently hosted at rceditor.org ingested into mail archive and glenn at the time suggested that we could move rfc editor orgs mail processing to itfa so that the uh the list just go into mail archive and get archived at headers just like everything else so i wanted to discuss here to get a sense for priority um is this something that we should move on sooner rather than later and the real sooner or later switch i think is do we try to do this before we move to mailman three or after so um miriam uh just go ahead and talk i don't think we have so many people here that we need to manage a cue thank you though yeah i didn't want to interrupt anything um yeah just i'm basically just here to mention that this becomes more and more relevant when we have the new rc editor model because we have some more waiting lists then and for those it's especially important to archive them but i'm i think the timeline is still not super urgent i don't know what your timeline is for me and three but for the new rfc editor model it's so i don't know a couple of months maybe half a year where we until we actually need most of this probably okay so i would like to propose that when we do make this move that we don't hold it behind mailman three that we actually move the rsc editor lists into the current way we do mailman i don't think we'll have name collisions that would which would be the main thing that would um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "suggest that we wait for melon three and then move them to mailman three as we're moving everything else to mailman three as a second step glenn do you see any major problems with taking things in that order no problems i have to apologize for the leaf blower my background i hope my microphone isn't picking it up as well as my ears are um okay so let's take that as a tentative plan and unless somebody objects to us um moving the rsc editor or lists into the same processing that the rest of the itf lists are we'll cue that up for action probably after we get the new server up our subversion track conversion is um moving close to its end we have several simple projects that are ready to move um hopefully we will get them moved this week um the few working groups that had track instances that they were using to um use for document development are um those repositories will be ready this week um there are three of them two of them i believe will let me move this week the other one uh there's still an outstanding question alexi you're here um the mail exchange that we had with john clinton how do you feel about it you want to wait until after that best document is pushed out the next version that this document is pushed out before we transition your group if we if we can wait till after 21st january 21st that would be great but this is our interim date okay that's that should be very easy for us to do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "thank you so we are after we move these simple things we are going to move xml to rfc um take a few days to actually push xml to rsc through a release cycle even if it doesn't have any big changes in it we will exercise um going all the way to release using github we'll take what we learned from that to feed back into the converting tools and then move the data tracker and mail archive um after that i am i have the the timelines that that we're currently expecting in here um as always these things tend to be a little bit more complicated than we expect so um i'm i feel it's likely we'll slip a little bit off of early february and into um late february for the data tracker but we're going to shoot for that anybody have any questions about the subversion track work are very close to um essentially uh removing the um um allocation of tools.itf.org and replacing it with a set of redirects that we maintain henrik is is building that set of redirects as we have been replacing services the tools transition plan points out the big things that we have left to do the long pole is still the web xml replacement service which i believe i talked about later um the it's close but um we uh we we still have a ways to go before it's done um but our plan is still to actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "stop allocating tools.itf.org replace xml2rc.tools.itf.org with author tools before we get to ietf 113 this means people in general are going to be using author tools instead of the xmlrc.tools.iftf.org interface glenn i mean kasari is putting together the beginnings of a planned work with glenn to move author tools from its current develop deployed in development instance stage to something that we would consider more production and i guess the things that i want to call out that are left on that tools transition plan that we may not finish before we actually de-allocate the uh you know stop delegating the domain is the replacement for daily dose and possibly the replacement for bap although i think we have an interim uh plan in place where we can stand up an instance of map with its current web interface um on on our servers without too much difficulty anybody have any questions about tools.iitf.org before i move along at the last meeting the secretariat took an action to build up a procedure for the zoolop server um for when groups plan to use it i see a question from glenn here that i hadn't read yet let me read it real quick"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:05",
    "text": "so glenn to your question is in the notes um we can wait for jay to get back to look at whether or not we have a a notewell that is site-wide um but i my expectations from the last meeting was the secretary could start adding groups now and i was hoping the tools team could be added as soon as possible and we can work on a site-wide note well later so um i had a question i'm glad that um we have as many ib and isg folks as we have here today now that we've got this slack instance set up would those bodies consider using it in place of slack or are you firmly embedded in slack at this point um the plan was to i think for both oh sorry eric no no go on i was trying to talk from the previous point and asking and then i come back on the slack stuff does it mean that the jabber room will be removed for the working group as well or eventually plan right now if you follow the the the plan we have right now the the jabber room will be bridged to one of the two rooms that is um created for the working groups and at least for the short term um medico is still connected to jabber and we will be talking to miyako in the future about having them connect to zulip directly okay that was my first question"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "yeah back to you and sorry again no worries i wanted to answer the question so i think both the isg and the iab um a year ago committed to use like for like the next coming year and then um decide with the next slate what to do then so i think if we want to transition it would be better to do that in in march which is before march when we have the new group of people ready um i also see at least for the isg that slack is used quite heavily so effectively that works pretty well for the ihd i wouldn't want to interrupt that um i personally have no experience with sulip so i think it would be very helpful for me and for other ihd members to have some kind of a test set up and get a little bit familiar with um so that before we switch over or make a decision to switch over but in any case i think we need we need we need more discussion in both groups when we have the new people for the next uh term before we can make a decision so i think we should sign up go ahead eric i fully second maria on this and especially being in a complete virtual world right and i never met my ihd colleague for two years and we managed to get some kind of community feeling through slack and it would be very hurting if we cannot move this community feeling to zulu right so it's not only a tool issue i guess uh but a way that slack is always open whatever basically slack for us is kind of important right now but like i said let's wait until we change the dots and see what's there right so i've been using slack for now one year i happy to move to zulip on my side if you provide the same kind of easy interaction but if you're continuing to go virtual it's really important to get this kind of easy to use tool and maybe it's really the same kind of tool so i'm hearing we should set up the spaces for the iab and the isg and let"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "them explore um as as a test instance and if we need to we can reset them if we need to make changes all right yeah that makes sense to me okay roman sent the announcement out that started the clock for the shutdown of the ftp services that's currently set to happen on april 18th um there's really not much background work that we need to do at this point all the redirects are in place pages have all been um changed to point to the right places um when we get to april we just turned ftpd off and and um didn't deal with the crux of of anyone that hasn't managed to migrate to other tools yet um i'll call out here again that romans volunteered to help people migrate so if there are people that have concerns about getting off of the current dependencies on ftp there's there are resources available to to assist greg do you want to talk to the web analytics point uh sure i can try if my mic is working yeah okay uh so the as the item explains um when we implemented matilda analytics on www.itf.org there was a promise to take a look at them after a year of operation and that time has passed um so i just wanted to raise the question in the tools team here about whether or not um there were any unexpected issues um from from my perspective things have been working pretty much uh as we expected and we've been able to make some observations that have helped us in terms of the content but i guess that was the first question is the second question uh or the second item there basically points out"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "um there could there were a number of suggestions in the in the lead-up to implementation on www and there have been requests since then to implement a similar approach to analytics on other itf web properties um and i just wanted to see if there were any uh i think my expectations sort of looking at eric here and after talking with roman is that um that step would uh include um sort of letting the community know about that um but i wanted to see if there were any issues on the tool side um before going taking that step and and then i'll pause and see if eric i sort of put eric's name against this item as well so he may have other things to say uh that my only point right i mean i was using matamo before for my own personal stuff uh good tools uh and i would love to get this kind of analytics specifically for instance for young catalogue right where we are investing a lot of money there and whether if it's used by one people by bonneville class once a month right it's not worth it and hopefully we listen to this but exclusively it was learning so at some point of time will to get this now the only issue with the young catalog is not only about web pages which is easy to integrate matamor with javascript or whatever but also api and you know the story right right so we need to get some tooling around it so you're not that trivial uh and now the last part not related to to this i'm just curious whether and i should know whether those analytics are public and i think they should be maybe public for everyone from the itf community and whether we can see this just to avoid the privacy issue right so everyone can see what's there uh sorry so there was a pretty strong um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "do i do do i send it is my audio right am i not coming through no you are you are okay i'm sorry just one second or i'll i'll tell you what i'll i'll reply in the chat and uh because my audio seems uh janky at mine so eric there was a um pretty strong statement about um who would have access to what the analytics were it was basically um operator level people in the agreement with the community and that we would not be opening these things up to the two people at large specifically because of the the you know even though we've done our best to obfuscate any personally identifying information that would make it into the analytics the the the edges are still a little sharp so but we do have this aggregate reports right there's like a pdf we upload on the webpage from time to time yeah greg was nodding his head is that out of yeah he just put the link in the chat link okay so i think that's sufficient but to be honest i find this pdf format not very usable it would be nice to have a different format but that's probably not very high priority and by the way i was this was this kind of statistic that i was looking for right i don't need to get any more for the details so that's perfect okay so um my feel from the pieces of this conversation that that that i've heard is that we should be working towards um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "extending analytics to most of the web properties that we have data tracker um maybe even author tools um that that um we at this point should look for reasons not to add analytics to things rather than um try to argue for um arguing analytics into each of the properties um i also think that we need to do a little bit more work to come up with a uniform way of capturing the kinds of things that that eric hinted at which the analytics tool won't um report on which are api accesses and direct downloads and things of that nature more weblog analysis work that should become uniform across sites and that's a goal i don't know that it's something that we'll see any immediate progress on but it's something that we can perhaps be pushing on mid-year and into late year this year so anything else on the web analytics i guess greg one quick question the conversations you had with roman he specifically talked about were there any was there any um specific analysis that we needed to go back in and do about you know what had actually been collected that needed to be done i'm not remembering any from the agreement but he would be the person that would have had it on on point let's let's go back to him and triple check that yeah this is john levine looking at the reports i see the vast numbers of the vast majority of visits say that they were for 10 seconds or less which tells me they were probably web spiders"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "any chance we can detect those and take them out i mean they're pretty easy to tell because they have distinctive user agents i mean you don't have to fix it now to something it was it just it jumped out at me like not like 80 80 or 90 percent of the visits were like 10 seconds or less which doesn't sound like human beings to me yeah very large portion of the traffic we serve is to is to the robots that's consistent with what i see on my server you know and most of them are junk robots which we might consider blocking too all right unless we've got something else i'm going to try to speed up a little bit i still need to create a list of future tools workshops the next one is not scheduled yet the last one the recordings and notes are already available we are still working on integrating the data tracker to wiki js to move the wikis that we aren't moving programmatically that we will crowdsource move and this includes things like the iesg wiki so um that's standing behind um completing this integration with these um with the data tracker and we're expecting that work to restart in in the next few weeks um casara can you quickly touch on author tools and and and the website um on other tools and there's one release with a few bug fixes on the iddif comparison making it easy to use"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "and changing the order of uh the results and then you can have a look at the look at them on the release notes um upcoming work is the main priority is getting this to a production server um and then i i would look into do the abn faster any questions about other news i hope the folks on the call at least have been shaking it pretty hard if you haven't been please start doing so um it's time to get um real traffic to it yes so um on the actual website side there there weren't any updates uh since last call uh upcoming work would include a new bootstrap the man having a special donate button and it's it's with the contractor right now so i'll update on the progress on the data tracker we had a small um bug fix and and minor feature release earlier um i guess it was late last week when we did that release we had an another instance of an issue that we ran in into december that i talked about in detail in the text and i'll leave it mostly for you to read the text but in short"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "um we've for long had a period where anytime the data tracker gets restarted it has to warm up before it starts serving requests at speed during that time its request serve rate is very low and these we've had two instances now one in december and one in january where the attempt to restart the data tracker just failed so i can't say it was deadlocked but the contention that was involved did not look like it was going to resolve in any reasonable amount of time so we have avoided that issue with some careful restart work that glenn has done um but we're now putting a lot more priority on on avoiding it until we can get a little bit deeper into understanding it there are a lot of things underway that are likely to um make things different um we're working on putting the data tracker behind cloudflare i have an instance of the sandbox running behind cloudflare already i have the secretariat testing it i will send a message out to you to toolsdiscuss to get more people testing it as soon as we know that uh the the very high level things are working and that we wouldn't be wasting a lot of people's time trying to get more traffic we um that particular instance that is running behind cloudflare is also running through engine x and g unicorn instead of through a patching mod whiskey um this is running on a separate listen socket um if this works out well we'll take the production data tracker um um deployment into the the same set of stacks and this will give us a great deal of benefit in separating the listen cues between the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "instance of apache that we have right now that's um serving a very large number of properties um and the data tracker so we have a little bit more insight into the way that the the uh tcp handling is happening as as requests are coming in and we are pushing on improving um individual view performance i've got a prototype in right now for caching the menu content by login that survived testing yesterday and last night and is in the queue for merged into the next deployment the next deployment for the data tracker [Music] the move to the new server is also going to involve a move to a newer version of my sql we know from the performance sprint work that we did last year that that will have a fairly significant boost in the performance of many of the lagging queries that um we're currently suffering from on on the existing deployment just because of better index manipulating tools that the newer version of mysql has available to it next point on the data tracker is that we have an issue with the way the registration data is currently being captured that leads to um saying that some people are nom-com eligible that really aren't in particular if we have someone and this is an edge case but if we have someone that signs up for the hackathon and the meeting but only attends the hackathon we will count them as attending the meeting right now so it's not that bad of a thing but um we do want this work to be correct so uh ryan and i are working on a change to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "the way we're using the model um it's going to affect the data rows but not the schema will have a unique index over person and meaning and ticket type so that um we won't run into over counting because of people that have day passes and week passes again another edge case but we're going to work those out and i'm already talking with mitiko to make sure that the right thing happens with them in the long term i am expecting to work with medico to have them touch an api that tells us what session was attended and we'll just go ahead and capture the um many to many from session to person in the data tracker and can build our blue sheets out there instead of medico having to build a text version out and post it at the end of the meetings this will also improve our ability to calculate non-com eligibility in the future somebody started asking a question i wanted to know was curious robert how um you discovered this problem uh casara was looking to see noticed that he was nomcom eligible and he knew he had not attended enough meetings yet so [Music] yep it was a happenstance you know some someone tripped over it so um we mentioned moving to github earlier that's going to have a bit of a disruption in the development work that we're doing on the data tracker as we are um setting up our new processes for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "working inside github we have two other big pieces of work that are going to be coming in that will probably be the major things that we'll be talking about in the next two meetings and that is finally getting the time zone aware timestamp work finished and deployed and then bringing in the work that lars is um lars and and um nick are working on on the merge the sorry the transition to bootstrap five anybody have any other data tracker questions as always if there's something that we're not talking about that you really think we should be talking about with something like the data tracker this call's a really good time to bring them up kasara anything to talk about on xml rsc or you just want have people read the text dates on xml rfc but if there are any urgent issues that i should look at let me know for male 1 archive ryan reports that there's nothing to report right now um glenn noted that um when we do the mailman 3 shift there will have to be work done on um i don't know if it's male archive proper but there is the male processing chain will have to be heavily touched um will have to be essentially re rewritten um to work with mailman 3. um there are notes about that if people are interested if you go to the the notes for the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "the mail processing workshop that we had last year you can see quite a bit of discussion about the things that we will have to update in the regular mail handling chain in order to make the transition to mailman 3. ryan you want to talk about the registration system just real briefly um i want to point out that as of 113 there'll be a new requirement when you go to register for the meeting you will first need to log in using your data tracker credentials um there are another number of reasons for doing that some benefits it provides but that's a change from past behavior so greg this might be something to work on communicating to people especially for the people that forget to register and are doing the last minute panic oh my gosh i need to register right this second um that the way that they're going to need to start if they don't have a data tracker account is to create one yeah and basically that was my point as well we need to be sure that newcomers right that just want to go to attend the first ietf meetings knows what to do right yeah so the day the registration system will um from what ryan's described to me will um hand hold people towards the data tracker if they if they can't log in or if they don't have an account already and of course once you are logged on one side you are logged on the other one right very frictionless stuff i think that's important for the first for the newcomers anybody else have any registration system comments questions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "i think this is still a discussion the secretary but i guess there's also some kind of tooling support needed in case we convert the in-person meeting to an online meeting last minute and we also need to convert the registrations somehow was that considered or is there no no additional tooling or implementation work needed um this is alexa sorry i think that we started to talk about this and um because of the vat um that is being charged to in-person registrations my personal view and ryan this is something i was going to want to talk to you about tomorrow is um that we'll have to refund the registrations and have people register again because it's too complicated because of that if it was a not a european based meeting we could probably handle it differently but is that nice it just makes sense let's discuss tomorrow um that causes me to ask for people while we've got 20 minutes left to be thinking of any other 113 coordination conversations that they expect to have and if there's something that we need to bring up um on this call to help um make sure that the right conversations happen at the right time i heard somebody on mute briefly was there somebody have a comment they wanted to make okay um eric in catalog uh nothing to add beside the notes so we are starting we extended the contract with pantheon for one more year and together with the two fathers that i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "wrote benoit and joe clark we are pushing for new features uh you've seen for instance the seed not the seed from segment routing but the siege from the seaboard working groups and would be nice to get a back and forward transition or display from the yang to the seed and so on as well as extending the api hence my interest for api analytics to see whether it's correct yeah and core it's indeed all right so we are just waiting for the final report on the security review of the the data tracker um the i already have the the primary results um sent to me directly they found a small and relatively easy to remediate number of of issues um you know one of i guess the worst was that we were exposing some personal api keys through the api and we closed that down um fairly quickly and fortunately we were not yet at a point where that was um something that was actually harmful um there is a note here about the transition to mailman three i think in the interests of time i'm going to hit some high points um in the notes from glenn the uh i guess the first question that i want to ask here is does anybody think that it's something that we should be putting further off i think that the take the takeaway that we had from our mail processing workshop was that we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "should work on it um as soon it was as it was reasonable to do so and then any reasons to wait for new features or functionality that's not yet present to show up isn't is not the right thing to do at this point but if anybody thinks otherwise um please say so now otherwise we're going to be working to schedule this thing in at the next reasonable time to do the the amount of work that's needed to to make the transition so glenn notes that such a transition would necessarily happen after we have the new server online um we will be doing development perhaps in parallel on the sandbox i think we might even work on building a docker instance that's specific to the mail chain that we can um build real tests for and we can have um things happening in this instance as we're working with glenn points out that we might be able to do this a list at a time rather than taking every list over as one great big bulk piece of motion that would be great if it works out we'll have to look and make sure that what we have to do in the processing chain will let us do that um the only places that we would run into trouble is whether or not we can tell in the mail chain at the right places that we're processing things that will eventually be fed into mailman three versus um into mailman two uh as we noted in the workshop some of the larger pieces of work will require a complete rewrite of post confirm and the work we're doing for dkim and probably the ways we're handing things off to to the mail archive post confirm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "itself is still python 2. it's one of the i think it's going to be one of the last python t things that we end up actually having in production um so it's not um it's not a matter of all the software is in place and it's just a matter of working through configuration we've got some development to do before before this will complete all right we are we have 15 minutes left um if there's anything that we glossed over that people want to go back to um let's go ahead and take the time if anybody's thought of 113 coordination topics or any other discussion that they'd like to bring up um please jump in now i see lars jump to the video yeah if nobody has anything else um i want us to quickly update or maybe even discuss the bootstrap five stuff a little bit so i'm whenever i have a few minutes i'm like checking yet another template and see if it works so this is basically requires going for every single template in the data tracker and man there's a lot more than there used to be when we did the bootstrap 3 stuff 10 years ago um so it's slow going but at least sort of i've there was a whole bunch of test breakage because of some updated javascript stuff like the date picker and the auto completion stuff that rendered completely different html and that broke all kinds of tests specifically the selenium stuff and i i fixed all that um finally but it took a while over the holidays thank god there was nothing else to do um but i'm i'm hoping that i'm sort of um get this done within a week or two hopefully um the problem is that it's it's a massive change right so everything looks slightly different and i'm sure there's breakage even though the tests are not breaking so i'm kind"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "um i mean the current way we release the data tracker is we don't we don't really have a development branch right so ideally for this kind of thing i think we want to have a development branch where everybody else is then also working and testing their stuff on the bootstrap 5 version and fixes things before we go to production with this so why don't you usually do it something that i kind of did breeze through earlier is um before that we strap five branch comes in we're going to get the time zone where branch in and that's going to mean back porting the the time zone wear branch back into the the bootstrap branch and i i very much agree that um we do this in a a development branch this is well nick and um casara and jennifer and i have been talking about how we'll use github and having you know a a development branch and a um release candidate kind of path forward is that is what we'll do so i think we'll have an opportunity to get um eyes on the new work at least in the context of development instances far more easily than we have in the past so um from the conversations that we had with you we're anticipating um having builds of that development branch um having the the actual container um built um essentially per commit and people can pull the tip of of dev um and have it immediately available so um so you know i i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "believe that um it's going to take nick um a few weeks behind you um with the work that you're doing on the templates to go back in in actual build tests for the javascript that was not tested at all and that that javascript will will probably um you know that that testing work will probably uncover quite quite a lot of stuff that you've been discovering with the templates that you just can't discover right now because there aren't selenium tests um nick are you here what the remind me the name of the the test tool that you started to write tests in instead of selenium i'm sorry i'm blanking on it for the moment it's cyprus yeah so large you might take a look at the the if you if you find yours itself fixing other selenium tests take a look at what he's been doing with this other test tool and consider just moving to that thing instead i my it's working now it looks painful because i didn't know selenium before oh yeah but i think i got it to the point the only thing that occasionally breaks is one of the ajax things that loads um person uh auto completes and i don't know why uh it works like in in 99 of the cases and then one percent it times out um and i don't think it does this on the uh other branch interesting but then again i didn't run the tests that often there so uh it might just fail there's no feel there as well the the other thing sort of um i've not so i'm basically using the basic bootstrap five uh template so i've not themed it at all which means it looks basically completely different to the current data tracker um look and feel into the fonts and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "colors and everything right it's it's looks like a vanilla bootstrap thing the question is we probably want to have a discussion at some point um whether we want to sort of make it look like the old one or whether we want to make it look different and if so how so i suspect that there are some things that we would want to push it towards um looking a little bit closer to the um existing data tracker but we've got this other project that is out for um dealing with basic things like colors and fonts inside you know the way that the links are presented and things like that that we want to apply across all sites and that's ultimately what we should be pushing this thing towards um the question that i've got is with basic scaffolding if you kept the the the scaffolding um the same like the lists when when you have a list result is that still look more or less like the list of things or are there any big changes but some of the some of the widgets are slightly different in bootstrap five and some some things are not there anymore like wells that were used in a bunch of places and and there's other things there now and so uh there's some some changes like that um and and specifically i don't know who did the review tool i hope i don't not stepping on the etos but that is very creatively using a whole bunch of ui elements and that's not so this is what i'm doing right now actually working through those okay well um it could well be you know we get um enough developers get some tools discuss community members looking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "at things we can get early feedback that would help us better inform how much effort we put into making the transition less jarring for people when we do make the deployment all right anything else on the bootstrap 5 stuff ours anyone have any other topics thanks everyone for taking the time to do this coordination i think it really helps us as as we're moving along and we'll see you online over the next few weeks bye you"
  }
]
