[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:59",
    "text": "for so could I ask you to keep an eye on the chat and if something happens in it that um needs to come to the um audio visual part of this um let me know sometimes during the middle of this it's hard to see that something's happening in the chat window"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:33",
    "text": "welcome everyone people are still joining we'll give people a few minutes to finish getting connected through the medical client as usual um these sessions are recorded the recording will be posted to YouTube We would like as many people as are willing to share video uh like for this to be like an in room in the room meeting with each other we don't run a queue if you have something to say just jump in if the conversation gets too Lively for that then we'll Institute a q mechanism but usually we have no problem with floor control with people just um using M voice cues all right the join rate is slowing down I've received messages from a few people"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "that they would be joining into the meeting um far enough in that waiting for them isn't um what we should do so I think I'd like to go ahead and get started I will repeat again for those that just joined um the session is being recorded and will appear on YouTube later the agenda has been available able um everyone has a link to the notes page uh the the outline of the notes page serves as our agenda there is a link in the chat already if you don't have um the notes page uh available to you already please follow that link does anybody have any agenda bashes anything like like to change or rep prioritize in our discussion not hearing anything I'll jump in with the thing that is consuming um the tools team the most at the moment um the uh infrastructure transition is still underway we worked very heavily um through the month of um through the month of May the mailman 3 transition consumed several of us as we were recovering from messages that uh weren't delivered as soon as they should have been to the mail lists um that's been worked out we've moved a few more of the applications um across into the new infrastructure area not the RSC production centers working machine has"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "been moved into digital ocean um and our IO the older ioc website which is now just a flat set of HTML pages is being served directly out of a blob store at R2 um nothing other than Cloud Flur is involved in um serving that website at this point we have a great deal of effort underway preparing for moving the cluster of applications that are bound together by the file system um they need to move at roughly the same time in close coordination that is the primary website www.f.org mostly because of the parts of the website that are not the wagtail U managed content management system but the parts that are um directories on the file system that are just exposed um raw the data tracker itself the mail archive um the IMAP server and the rsync server all feed on this shared set of file systems so there are notes Here for roughly where we are and roughly What's blocking us um we do have a version of the WW w website up in staging at this point um it's a matter of just knocking off a few details and I think that will be ready to go because I hard you have anything to add to that yeah um the male archive is I would say 95% there we're working out details and staging on um authentication and some cores issues um the last I heard from the team"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "there were still some struggles getting um elastic search to behave is are we still pushing through that or has that been wrestled um through completely uh still working on that all right yeah but our goal is to feel comfortable with that towards the end the middle of well towards the end of tomorrow the middle of the week one of our big stumbling blocks is getting messages from the mail processing system when things arrive at um a mailing list address how does it get from the mail system into the mail archive when the mail archive is no longer on the same machine as the mail system for the previous many many years what happens is the mailman would deliver via pipe to a script um the script would handle things locally on the file system that was present taking a lot of of advantage of the economy of everything being on on a single machine there's um development for mailman underway that um Steve at Serius is completing to add an archiver to the archiver plugin for mailman that will take the messages and post them to the mail archives new API for ingesting messages over HTTP um Jennifer has written a similar um service that will run next to the mail archive that will accept messages intended for the data tracker over um an lmtp interface and then post them to the data tracker data tracker API for ingesting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "messages um we're also working on reducing the number of of ways that email can get into the data tracker I'm talking with um Ayana for example about changing the one place that they are sending email to the data tracker and replacing it with just a post um but we're likely to have emails sent to the ncom being digested by the data tracker for the long foreseeable future and we have the last of the details associated with managing those common files parts of the file system between the web site the the data tracker and the male archive that have been spread across CR jobs in several places on the existing machine uh they were investigating and moving the things that those cron jobs did into appropriate places to work in this new environment um some of these are quite messy they're related to our um Decades of deciding to serve things in different ways and multi multiple places um when we went through the exercise of shutting down the FTP server we created a directory on the web server under everything FTP that had files that were already served by the web server but in a different structure just to match the structure of what was at the FTP server um uh for a while while we were actually keeping the FTP server there things on the file system that ended up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "getting used by the rsync service that are duplications so short answer whenever the data tracker puts a file on disk it has been now changed to put that file onto disk in four places that it can know about and there are a few places where scripts move things into a fifth or sixth place that are being taken care of by these Crown jobs and untangling this um so that we have a smooth transition and making sure that we've covered everything is um been quite an effort but we are close to the end of it so after that long description assuming that we don't run into blockers in those remaining points or discover something entirely new with the testing that we'll be doing um the rest of the week it's our intent to move this set of applications into our infrastructure at digital ocean early in the week next week our current Target is to do this on Monday it will involve significant downtime I don't yet know what significant means but I suspect that it is still going to be measured in hours not tens of minutes um because of the uh time that it takes to do the final syns of the file system and the um few databases that we have to move over that are still slow loading databases so we will be working towards building an estimate on what that downtime would actually be um later this week now I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "would prefer to give the community much more notice than a few days for the day of track is going to be down for a couple of hours but I don't think that we uh we need to trade that off against the available time we have a deadline to get these things moved by the end of June we need to move these go ahead Robert this is Liz um will that affect uh me working on the agenda because Monday is going to be the day that I'm really jamming on the meeting agenda yes it will for the time that we're doing this transition you won't be able to work okay so the uh moving these things is a a um precondition towards moving the actual mail processing system itself we're um looking for an update from sirius on um their current plans but the expectation is is that they would be moving that system the next week which is the last week of June and that we would be off of itfa at um at the end of at the end of June um you'll know at the at the end of this there is a we'll also be moving the um registration system independently uh we'll temporarily be moving it to a droplet IND digital ocean and then um converting it to run in our kubernetes cluster afterwards so um feedback I Roman from the isg's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "perspective any and Eric I see you're here too um the short notice to the community the effect this might have on scheduling I we're up against the wall on on the needing to move off of I etfa is the are the tradeoffs acceptable to you so I want to repeat what's being proposed here so we're saying that it is now Tuesday we're going to give three business days notice to the community that likely for a couple hours Let's round up a half day on this coming Monday you can't use the data tracker sure and the alternative of waiting another week is that that does not give us sufficient pad if something goes horrifically bad to meet the end of the month deadline correct and uh I I've lost the bubble the end of the mud deadline comes from what it's not just the end of the month's deadline it's then the knock on effect of the um moving into um ITF 120 as well so it's the two things stack up because we if we can't do it then and we then need to go into July we can't potentially do it in July because of 120 we're then into August as well doing it by the end of that um and it's uh so it's partly timing because of avoiding the any disruptions of that and partly budget because of the extensive cost to us each month that we delay it by and we've delayed it three months now already so if I hear you this isn't really a question like we have to do this or there's substantial kind of cost I based on how the schedule's been constructed you know we do this now or we do this in August for a bunch more money yes probably okay so again I'm I guess I'm not sure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "what the question is being directed is sounds like we're giving now the question is this is what we're planning to do do you object really it's that way around do you want us to try to do something different is it are we simply skirting too close to the wind with this one I'm not really being presented with an alternative uh a palatable alternative otherwise so I I guess I have to say yes to that based on plan this schedule all right I understand right you're asking me to kind of concur to something for which there is no kind of option and so we're doing this anyway and we have to manage the do the damage control that we're giving the community less than a week that we're GNA have a half day downtime which strikes me as a ton yeah so the a couple of things first of all this the the whole project has been very very difficult and um we I think as you can understand from the details though Robert has gone through the level of um uh I don't know if the word translates but the level of crra that has been found is extraordinary and the amount of work that is required to do this has been um uh significant we uh effectively need to bite the bullet to push through and get this done at this time there is something has to give in terms of um the way to do it we've given already on money by extending it for some months we've given already on some of the technology choices and now it's it's a bit of time in terms of the community not notice that we need to give on this it's it's unfortunate but it won't be this is the really big one um after like Decades of us doing something different and so after this I'm confident that we're going to end up in a very very different position uh yeah I understand we've been in there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "we have to bite the bullet kind of argument now several times now through very Rocky kind of transition so you're right there's nothing being presented as an alternative so we clearly have to do it in kind of manage that Community expectation and yeah I mean there's there's not much to kind of do here okay thank you sorry I realize now and did that track a user right so three-day notice and knowing that that tracker will be down let's say half a day as long as you are sure it's back after either the old position or the new position and the half a day doesn't extend to one full day I think is manageable right so it's not perfect for sure but it's manageable so the the intent is to send the advice today right y yeah no yeah thing is is that we've got testing that we've got to do through the rest of the week and if we find a blocker it would end up necessarily bumping to later in the week understood wait no I our plan is to do the trans let me restate is to do this transition Monday it's conditional on the testing that we're doing the rest of the week if we find that we cannot do it on Monday we would be pushing it further into next week to do the transition to give us time to address the issues that we find in our testing the rest of this week now a moving Target is always annoying right again so why not saying next no Thursday because we got a t chat and we need it but next Friday"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "and be sure to be that right so so simply rather than having something which is it's next Monday most probably and then on Friday say no no finally it will be next Wednesday uh and living in kind of doubts and unknown why not seeing it's clearly next Friday it gives you enough time right to do the testing because of knock on effects of the delay because we've got to move and then have some infrastructure work that we do to prepare for the next thing that has to move which is the mail processing infrastructure that has to happen during that week the next week well Friday Pro I understand this isn't meant to be a negotiation this is meant to be planned but it does feel as if Wednesday might be better then that gives two extra days to sort anything out two extra days for notice and two less days for anything that goes forward and we can be much firmer about Wednesday as the planed day then yeah I mean I said Friday just to avoid Thursday Wednesday will be perfect as well right clearly and you know as Liz is pointing out the uhu uh we hit the end points of her work on the agenda we disrupt her the most post Mary also called out in the chat that um the further we are from the draft deadline the better right which is July 8th I believe I also want to point out that time eventually going to affect some scheduled interim meetings"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "yep so you broke up fairly badly Cindy but your point was that we're going to affect scheduled interim meetings and we would have to work our downtime around those so the um yeah which we necessarily would all right so what's the result here back to kind of what Eric is proposing you know do we can we if we go on Wednesday we have a lot of confidence because we have two days pad and a little bit more notice that we're going to go that day or are we saying that we really need that we really need to do it on kind of Monday even if we slip it to Tuesday or Wednesday because that buys us two more days and the schedule is so tight now that if you know two days makes a difference between hitting the face to-face meeting or not well I'm comfortable with announcing I'm comfortable with announcing Wednesday and doing this work on on that Wednesday I'm I think we can I think we can still adjust for the knock on effects that that would have on what will happen with the mail processing system itself so it's had all agreed then that we're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "going to go for Wednesday and we're going to um ask the interims to switch to WebEx as suggested by muria so that there's no authentication issues with data tracker being down well the we'll just have to work around the interims even then Jay and and we'll look at the times and we'll make sure that the data tracker Point happens after because it's not just Meo it's notes. f.org but the the interims last for seven hours on Wednesday so either either we switch them to M to webit and tell them that the other things are down other mechanism or we can't yeah oh mo is doing the full day that's what's in they're doing a full day on on that Tuesday as well okay well we we need to look at this really I think that we we would be disrupting those meetings dramatically if the data tracker weren't available I mean they would want to be submitting drafts they would want to be um while they were working looking at um the state of things in data tracker so I think that what I'm hearing from this is if we don't go on Monday we need to go on Thursday after the telat"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "I think that's right so she would just schedule Thursday after the telet chat then I think we should do that if we can accommodate that y all right Eric I think you tried to say something but you were muted indeed and you cannot read on my lips Robert shame on on you um more seriously uh after the tel chat we have thef coordination call if not mistaken and I'm not sure on which system it relies I was just looking at that and we're set we're currently set up for Meo uh from noon to 2 uh Eastern we can move that I think don't you you mean move it from away from EO to WebEx or Zoom or what yeah we we can go to WebEx because we don't use notes and all those other things s Cindy just disappeared I'll coordinate with her to get a new a new meeting announcement out that gives you a whole bunch of hours back robertt yeah and it doesn't look like anything else is scheduled Thursday after the telat except and basically Cindy said the ATF meeting is already set up in WebEx and there's a there's a comms the LLC comms meeting that Greg has we we can move it and inde the IT police this weekend and not next week so forget about my"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "commentary oh you're right I was looking at the wrong week too but no wait is the T chats this week the tel chats this week no there there's a former Tel chat next week as well ah should we move on then to next B on the agenda yep um following the tools Retreat that we had um Roman has asked that we find a way to check that we um are getting feedback from more of the community than what is attending these calls um our the set of priorities we have the road map which is linked at the very top of the notes um is informed by the feedback from these calls and from what we hear from individuals reporting issues and discussions that are happening on mailing lists but um what um we've heard is it would be if it's possible useful to vet these priorities and get more Community feedback get broader Community feedback than we're currently getting if we can um Nick points out that with the wiki JS Community he's been using a service called I don't know if it's pronounced kany or canny um doio that basically provides an upd down vote system based on a card um user interface Motif that can be integrated with GitHub um and directly map GitHub issues into places where"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "these things can be um commented on or upvoted and downvoted he set up a demo at i.k. with a single issue attached to it so that people on this call could get a feel for what that might look like and what it would require of the community to participate um I'll note one thing is that it requires creating an account with the kenny. either by way of Facebook GitHub one of these other um shared already existing identity servers or providing an an email password sign in with them to create an account at that point you can click up buttons and down buttons and add comments so it would add another place where we would want to curate information flow in into our planning um so the question for this group is is that particular service an acceptable way to get this kind of feedback is it's addressing what Roman's concern for getting a broader uh uh bit of community feedback looks like um can we just Robert can I sorry to I just want to jump back a step because the so the the the concern and I'm sure ran can jump in here is whether or not the tools team priorities are reflect ing Community priorities and what um uh sort of evidence we have for that so that we can point so that someone can say the objectively now the um so far we've been working off basically two mechanisms one is having um GitHub issues and um the second have been these to tools calls um this communicating with the um uh community and sharing priorities and those type of things uh and sharing the work details here now so the question is whether or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "not these are these the current mechanisms are sufficient or whether or not we need a an additional mechanism that lets us particularly um look down in at individual um issues or individual larger chunks of things to see whether things are being missed you know and the candy.io is um uh a suggested Way Forward in terms of that because it allows they up voting so if any would' love to hear from all of you but we want to talk really about the you know prioritization and are we meeting priorities are there concerns about that and you know is this a good way to to get better to to that yeah my only observation and I really do want to hear kind of other folks's feedback is if we think the tools calls for example is a lot of feedback and interactive I would Reserve with no data just this call this this meeting if you subtracted everyone from the iar everyone from the LLC staff and all the contractors this there would not be a lot of people on this call yeah and so to think that this is representative of the community to me would be kind of a tough sell I don't know who reads the mail list the transcripts or the YouTubes or the rest of it but this seems like a a narrow slice of the community and that's why I was kind of pushing you know is is there some better way and I appreciate kind of this exploration Hoover I will note that we normally have more but yeah I guess I'm the community so Russ what do you think about a toour like this I I I think that yes no is really difficult for what you're trying to get which is do we have the prior prioritization right so I think a mail"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "list discussion would be superior okay right so we need to take this whole conversation to the mailing list for a conversation and I think perhaps we can promote these meetings a little bit better as well we should offer free virtual cakes or something yeah Mia we're not using the queuing just jump in please okay so I'm I put something in the chat but I do wonder if if we need Community consensus for Tool development basically I think we need to make sure we get the input from those people who are impacted by the tooling um and maybe most of them are in the call probably maybe not all of them but like trying to reach out to the whole Community I'm not even sure that's a good idea maybe we should discuss that first I mean I think this call wouldn't work if we would have 200 people here right I do think with a tool like this we run exactly the same danger as we have with these meetings if we only have three members of the community use it and they out vote their pet projects and nothing else then we end up with a the very distorted understanding of the priorities about things so I do um take bu's point that we need to unpick this a lot more um far it's mailing list all right so perhaps more focus on mailing lless focus on the um the road map as I just to to unwrap this just a maybe a a hair more with with the people we do have here has the GitHub card style road map"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:04",
    "text": "that is linked at the top of of the notes been a useful way of communicating what the priorities are for what we're planning to work on um and ensuring that we're capturing the right prioritization from even users here so I've been following tools for like longer than most anybody on this call right and the to me there's this context that I already have and so I can't tell whether that's an effective tool for somebody who's coming to look for the first time but I find the um uh agenda for this call Far More enlightening U maybe let me say something from the iab's perspective even so I'm not I Le here or whatever but um I think for me it was actually a little bit hard the last four years to to figure out like when something will happen if it happen how it was prioritized and so on um so there is still some room for improvement I think um but I also think this call having this call having the minutes and having this all transparent in public helped a lot all right well if people have other thoughts um throw them at us on the list let's work work through to see what we can do better the remainder of the call is mostly FYI um two points that I wanted to highlight"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "in particular were that um work is continuing on ensuring that the Medico client is um has uh utilities for the people who are sharing a session to um place any participants that are being particularly disruptive into an observer only mode and that those changes will be available towards the end of the month um so that we have time to develop training around them before we get to uh 120 um we also recently added a capture replacement it's more than just a capture replacement but a um series of defense against um automated abuse to the forms on www.f.org using Cloud flares managed challenge service um that um we'll get some runtime with it we believe it's going to make a significant difference to the amount of of hassle that the secretary in particular has to deal with when someone decides to be abusive at those end points the um we've got the usual updates on the primary applications below if anybody has any questions on those um we're happy to discuss them oh on the um the one about disrupted people are just there's actually a there are a set of um features being exposed through Meo there so Meo have a um fairly um uh um detailed structure of permissions and roles and um a number of changes have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "been um agreed with the isg and they're implementing those to give um working group chairs and others a much more um degree of control for various different situations so um you know the immediately disrupted person the repeatedly disruptive person the um all sorts of things so um uh that will be in place relatively soon it will be included in the training and the documentation for ITF 120 yeah and I I just uh underscore that we're we are anticipating much more proactive uh prompting people to take that training to to be so they can be informed so we'll step things up there and by the way regarding the chair being able to push out somebody during the MEO is it also applicable for the working group delegates and AD or just the chair yes there was a two-part question so yes it is appable the others and it's not um uh you can't push them out um as far as I know you you forc them into Observer mode and okay whatever yeah that's better thank you and if they are and just understand if they're disruptive in terms of that they continue to request the permission to speak for example there's another action you could take as well I can't remember what it is so you know some thought's been put into it thank you all right so we have a few minutes left if anyone has any other business no thanks everyone for your time I appreciate the uh um effort that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "goes into um having these discussions and making what we're doing for the community better and I will I expect to have um a session in July and then hopefully we will see everyone in Vancouver thank you for your leadership Robert thanks Robert thanks for the whole to tools team bye"
  }
]
