[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:17",
    "text": "Notetakers, Bernie's gonna try to take some notes, and we also have Ben from the AOL Ben Fattens agreed to take some notes. Thanks, Ben. Thanks, Bernie. Yeah. So today's agenda, we're gonna do chair stuff for the first five minutes, then Jen's gonna talk about self generated ipv6 addresses we're gonna do 8415, And last, we're gonna do next steps. Anyone have anything they wanna add or change to that? while we're here. Alright. DHC working group status. So We have 2 working group documents. We've had one more than we had last time when we met. at"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:04",
    "text": "the last IETF, we only had 84, 15 biz. We've added the self generated notifications, which Jen's gonna talk about today. So that's perfect. One draft that we I wanted to mention here is the sr6 locator draft, has been presented twice to this group. And during the last IETF, we talked about that potentially moving to spring, and that's what's happened. Let's move over to the spring group. So if we were really Wondering where that draft went. That's where it is now. That's where the work's being done. So please go there to track it if you're interested in what's going on. Obviously, we'll we'll keep an eye on and do reviews of it, but we think it's better there. It's just a different option, basically. So that's why we moved that over. Here's a couple related documents that we've had for little bit of time. We'd like to just throw these in here so that people are aware. They're not working group documents, but People should know what's going on. So there's 3 of them there. We've added. If there are more, free to send them to the, you know, the DHCP list or just us beforehand. Obviously, we're a working group that has lots of groups who depend on DHCP. So we can't track them all. And that's it. That's all I we have on the chair slides. So, Jen, you're up. I'm part of the Slack. Yeah. Yeah. congrats. Hello? Amjun? As usual, we talk about self generate at registers, self generate in, IP addresses using dhtv6. draft has been adopted since last 8 years. Next slide, please. The Well, next slide, please. So what changed? First of all, Thank you for everyone who read it again and provided comments. what we did, for reply message. we changed it from being optional to being non optional. so a server should respond they get a registration message,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "the client must stop returns meeting as soon as it gets the a reply. obviously, the client cannot rely only apply to arrive because client could not know if this server supports or not. Also, we renamed that message to other reg reply. to be consistent with other agent form. So next slide, please. It's gonna be a quick drop. I realized that we have not clarified transaction ID. It was national in the draft about that. But it looks like it's a kind of mandatory part of the message. So some text has been added. to say that And and client Like, I think the text is currently consistent with 8415, So client generates a transaction ID when it sends a message. It used the same transaction ID for a transmit, but generates a new transaction ID when it does refresh after some time. and the share of her user receive transaction ID when sends reply. On the other hand, at Neither client, no server do does anything about transaction ID. So it's kind of useless, but I think the draft should have some about how to feel it. So I don't don't have an opinion how useful it is. Also, the actual question is, shoot or may, or must, I don't know, several do anything. about transaction ID. Because one option would be to say that server may or should ignore login duplicated messages. Right? So let's say server receives 3 diff 3 reference meets with the same transaction ID. what should the server do. It could log all of their process, I mean, depend on the result of keeping any state."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "all the server may ignore repeated at like, a a written on Smit, or may I just do I don't know something like Cisco's log does saying, This message has been repeated 25 times. Right? So suggestions are welcome, So, currently, there is nothing in the draft about any actions on action on transaction ID. It just the text is currently just saying how to populate that field, handsets it. Next slide, please. You want Brandon, that's something too. You wanna make sure? Yeah. I I was gonna say that Yeah. Go ahead, Barney. you know, the transaction ID while yeah, the server could use it as you indicated you know, the transaction ID is most useful for the client. Because, you know, if it starts to transmit this notification And then, for example, it assigns a new ID because it's starting a a totally new transaction to register maybe a different address or something it has a way of matching up the reply that comes in with a request. So on this actually, we actually clarified the text about once that client does with a reply There are few rules about when the client ignores the reply. Right? So it verifies the destination address of the reply. This it must match the address being registered It also looking at which address it's actually got response from. Right? So I do not think transaction ID would be part deeply useful here. but we but if you think the videos of all, yeah, we might say is the transaction ID should match. for so the client should verify transaction ID when it stops returns meeting. Yeah. Yeah. I I I'll have to go back and look at the text because I think it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "again, I I really think you should use the standard communication mechanism, which basically means that the You know? because the packets may be relayed and things like that. and they they should be sent from the Well, I'll have to go look at it, but I you know, it mhmm. I think you gotta be be be be careful here that we don't wanna change it too much in terms of the communication that's used. And so know, that's why the transaction ID is useful is because if if the packet comes in and it comes in from a random location, Right? Somebody has to know the transaction ID. It's only a 24 bit value. But somebody has to know the transaction ID to to like, fake a reply if they wanted to do that. Okay? I'm not saying they do, but just if they did. Let me go look at the text again, and I'll I I may make some and list. I think it's best for the the client to use this transaction ID. I don't think there's much use for the server use it, but the server certainly could say, oh, I got the same thing already. I'll ignore it. That most of the time, the server can just process it again and send the reply because it doesn't know whether the you know, it doesn't know that the client is retransmitting it because it didn't receive the reply, or that it was just a, you know, a spurious retransmission. Right? So a a server will just keep you know, send a reply for every request it gets even if it's a duplicate, probably. Mhmm. Mhmm. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. Looking forward to see your comments on the mailing list. Yeah. Retransmission mechanism. Yeah. Semconia, we change the kids back to use the standard retransmission algorithm defined in 8415. So Next slide. Yes. Some cosmetic changes. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "Jim did some extensive review and pointed out to some inconsistency in terminology. So we're currently using client consistently instead of end calls, device, whatever we were using. We cleaned up the tags because it was some duplication and repeated sections. So I hope it's much more readable now. probably even shorter. next slide. Yeah. surprise slide, which my calls are have not seen yet. with Let me tell you a story. even if you have, let's say, array guard in the network. there is a possibility that a reguard does not work as well as you expected. And somehow, intentionally or accidentally, a host starts sending a race with some random PIOs. And hosts starts getting some random addresses, if they are ULA's, you are lucky because global addresses will be 3rd, but it might be actual some other prefixes. in this case, the proposed mechanism can be a nice addition for your monitoring system to detect that on. Hold on. My host is reporting an address, which is not appropriate to the network. And currently, the draft suggests that server should log, such event. which would be like a free benefit in detecting those scenarios. Actually, another scenario when you can see it without even a raw RAE. scenario when, for example, some net changes because of, for example, dotonexhouseindicationnetwork and so on, and your hosts are getting addresses which are not expected to have. So, basically, I'm saying you get in for free, some additional monitoring mechanism to detect configuration issue leading to connectivity. Eric, you wanted to Okay. Yeah. Next slide, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "Yeah. So next step. Any more comments suggestions I see Bernie is going to help us with transaction ID, processing. And the author of things that the draft is pretty stable. much better than it used to be again more readable. So maybe How about the working group last call? Here's my question. Do you guys have any implementations? yet of this? that exists in the world. Well, I it to my leave learn to them. I'm a network person. just if we're going to work in Google Ads call, I'm curious if there is anything where we've deployed this and have turn up, turn up, operational experience. We don't have I mean, we could do a client implementation. but we don't necessarily have way to get this into servers. So I don't know what what it is that you'd be looking for. Yeah. It was more just curiosity if we had actually what what we had on the implementation side. We we we can do it we can definitely get put a client implementation together. Yeah. That that's what we're planning to do. Okay. But And in what forum would you like to see that again? It was for just look for running code. Right? Like, hey. Has anybody actually tried to implement this and how has on type of question was really what I was asking. I I I think we can get some more comments. Bernie's gonna send some and do all of that, but I was also curious about the running code situation. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's good question. Yeah. I will basically see about that. And I maybe we can update the list when we have Yeah. I think that would be helpful. Thanks, Lorenzo. Erick Vinc, what about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "doing a hackathon in Prague, on this and the mic is very far away from the front row. It is very far away. Yeah. We could definitely do it in prod. I mean, I think I think one one thing that we we we sort of had considered with this is that you don't actually need to do to write a PHP server for this. You can write something It just, like, listens only for this message type and just logs it. So I I that's actually that we can do that pretty quickly before Prag, actually. And, yeah, so we can we can definitely do it in Prague, but I think we could probably hopefully do it before then. Okay. Sometimes you should think about for the hackathon for sure. Thanks, Eric. But, yes. get get get get Yeah. And my impression is that most workload on the client side. Right? The server just picks up the message and logs it so it doesn't have to be a DHCP server. It could be whatever, like, small code. But client needs to do some logic about interfaces and so on. Go ahead, Tim, and then we'll have Bernie. Yeah. Tim Chant. So, yeah, the most common question I get asked when I'm speaking to universities because I do pleasantly increasingly more with Physics. And they're starting to ask good questions is how do we have the address and capability? So I think anything like this has got to be seen as an advantage to encourage them to deploy and not be worried about that Oh, prefixed per host. don't don't be naughty. the other thing that they you know, they safe safe. might be concerned about is that I think you make the point in the draft is that if there's a malicious Toast, then they probably wouldn't send these messages. So they may still scrape switches and routers and so on as they could do now as well. and then correlate those. Anyways. Yeah. Security consideration as far as I can remember, ma'am, but does say that it's not like a silver bullet. Yeah. You kind of rely on the horse"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "to do the right thing. So it's not a a really security feature. to detect staff it's more like monitor and yeah. So it should be used with strictly speaking, I simply can't rely on hosted from security perspective, you need to do get a d cache entry or something. Right? but it's just an additional mechanism on top of other things. Right? help you. We discussed possibility of liken switches and routers to do something on hold behalf. There is a tricky part here. Right? You cannot layer 2 infrastructure to do this because we want the source address to be addressed being registered. Right? because, otherwise, it opens, another cannot work from security perspective. And switches most likely would not be able to like, they either have to really spoof the address Right? And most likely, it would be really probably a market from routing can you have ERPF, for example, on the network. Right? My most of my switches will not be able to spoof a client address. Right? So it's a bit problematic here. So it's been a discussion as this group, and I believe it's better not to go that direction. right, and left host to do this. I don't have really strong opinion, but I'm not sure it's like it will not complicate things too much. Right? We'll Yeah. And then the the other question is it sort of comes up a bit. Again, I universities around. registering Self generated addresses in the DNS, which the answer should be dynamic DNS, do you think there's any relationship between what you're doing and that or I don't think there's much use of it as -- I have deja vu. whether there's any need for it, you could also ask. As far as -- -- question I get. So I thought I As far as I can remember, is it, like,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "I joined this work, like, relatively recently. Right? And mine does in this original graph was talking about Venus and it was all whole complexity about security ossils, things. Right? Because, yeah, now you basically have to process the host right to update DNS. And completely different, like, trust relationship. And Yeah. I I think we should, like, limit the scope of this draft to this. If you don't trust your host. You can take this information from your DHP server. Right? and put it in DNS. It's I think it's completely different, like, pro problem space. and I think Lauren's in the microphone, you'd like to answer to this. Yeah. So n. There were some somewhat strong opinions about whether to do this or not. And we just said, well, the client may include the FQDN option in their packet. And and that was it. And we we did the idea for this actually came from a sort of a a large customer that they were like, oh, we need a way to do this. And and I said to them, wait a minute, you you you take the you take the host name from the DHCP request from the client and you stick it in your DNS, and you don't do any thing. You don't verify it or anything. They're like, yeah. If there there are employees. If they do something bad, we'll fire them. I was like, oh, I guess. I guess. And so, apparently, people do wanna do this. But yeah. So I think in our implementation, we are gonna include the whatever our host name. and then, yeah, the network is gonna do whatever it wants. But, yes, from a university perhaps, you might not I might not want to do that. But, yes, that's why it's sort of We didn't wanna make any statement a in any direction other than say you could do this. Yeah. The information is here. How much you trust it? What you want to do with this? It's a different store it, And I'm I would have think if you start going that direction, it will, like, complicated things too much. the scope of this draft. Right? Right? I mean, we could say that the that it should include the FUDN"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "option. I don't know. But then there was strong opinions about that. So -- My memory of that is there was a previous draft that had gone down this road. had not survived because she'd be working group. Some of the current authors, Rich, incremental in killing that one. So, like, I wouldn't necessarily think that that was the problem. Yeah. Yeah. So in the use of in the example of the universities I speak to, maybe 20 years ago that you ran their own ISC bind and and DNS service, and now they pay info blocks 1,000,000 of pounds to do that for them. So I guess these things are kind of related and that they're going to be running the same company's product that's going to be collecting DHCP information or -- Yeah. doing dynamic DNS in practice. So there is a Yeah. It's the same The client provides use of information. Right? then you can take it and put it in DNS and to log whatever. Right? I don't think the client have a direct mechanism Like, I don't know what RPC to do in a server to update it well. I guess it's too much to ask. Right? So the nice thing is this could be a very lightweight thing. And as someone said, you don't actually have to run a full DHCP So that you can just run something that collects the message. 6, attention. Barney, did you wanna jump in here? Well -- I I think Tomac is on vacation. So he's not here and maybe, you know, maybe rather than building sort of a separate tool, you know, there is the Kia, the ISC Kia server, that might it might be easy to already got the infrastructure through all the packet receiving and processing and stuff like that. And maybe as an easy plug in, to add to that. I don't know. I'm just suggesting it if Tomac was here. He he he could probably say more about it. I don't know if there's somebody else from the i s ISC Kia team, that might say anything, but, you know, it might be easy to to add it to that. Right? And the first step may just be to log in, as you said. You know? log in and send the reply."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "And then, you know, as time goes on, there can be more done with it if if that's what death. direction is Bernie. I think that's something we could reach out to him about. Thanks, Lorenzo. Tim, sorry, are you suggesting that we should say that the client should include the FQDN or you Was you was it just a question? because, I mean, it it think the working group can definitely say should there. I mean, I think should is fine personally or or lost. Well but, you know, that that yeah. I don't know. Yeah. So I I you to get those 2 independent questions that I think they're related about the accountability and being able to put the generated addresses in the DNS. And since that most universities are now running commercial products. There are other products available, ma'am. I should just mention 1. but they will their integrated products they run as iPads, then Maybe why not? 5, guess? remember you probably do not want to push -- -- strong opinion. I'm just observing that that's are they one things now? And -- Like, My I think it better to just give us information and let us to to deal with it just because you probably do not want to put everything into DNS. Right? You do not want temporary addresses in DNS. You need to be able to actually differentiate between table. Oh, it's It gets them complicated. Right? So the question then is why do you want it in the divinity DNS and maybe the reverse DNS? Are there still reasons why that is needed for anything Yeah. We could discuss that maybe for some time, but I don't have a strong view. So if you wanna leave it as is. That that's fine. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Like, that's everything. Anyone else or anything else? Bank. Thanks, Jen. Thank you. Bernie, am I presenting this, or are you? I don't actually know."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:04",
    "text": "That's up to you. I can do it if you want, or can do it. you go ahead and do this burnium? Alright. So this is about the r c 8415 biz work that we've been doing where We're trying to advance dhpv6 to full Internet standard. Can I advance the slides I didn't give you control, Bernie. I'll just do it for you. Okay. Yep. Alright. Yeah. So, you know, the the 3rd item in our Charter, the 3rd main objective was to you know, issue a updated version of the DCB base specification after an appropriate Novelle. following publication advance it to Internet standard. And so that's what we're trying to do is follow through on our chart. Next slide. So we did publish to new drafts. The first or 2 new versions of the draft. The first one removed They use multicast status code and some of the code around the some of the text around the server, checking for multicast versus unicast and stuff because the only reason it was doing that was so it could send to use multicast status code under the appropriate situation. So we absolutely did that code because as you may, Remember, we we are removing the server unicast capability and the option and the capability And so this was a remnant of that. capability, that if a client unicasted a message that it shouldn't have. we could then send it the server could then send it a use multicast status code to say, hey."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "know, you you can't do this. You gotta send it. the the multicast way. Is there a question? Or you wanna wait until the end of the slide? But Keep going, Bernie. Okay. Probably about the next slide. And Chomic also oops. No. Go back. Tomic also added implementation status section Again, this This is just intended for the ISG evaluation process. And, you know, it has a note that should be removed. by the RFC editor when an RFC is produced because it doesn't doesn't survive RC. status. You know, there's no no need for that information. because it's stale information as soon as it's published. Comments and corrections are very welcome for that section. So if you notice anything that's wrong or implementations that are missing, please let us know so that we can update that that in the near future. we we are also going to ask our AD and our document checker which is who is Suresh, And for them to review this section because they they're both on the ISG, and so we wanna make it see You know, if if what we have here is sufficient, or what war may be needed. Alright. Next slide. Okay. So what's left? They're There was some discussion on that working group mailing list recently about a misbehaving PD, client, prefix delegation client, that would release"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "an add sorry, a delegated prefix. what it was still in use or addresses that might have been know, the the prefix that might have been assigned to a link and router advertisements that might have been sent out to clients had not yet expired And so It's it was very possible that clients were still using addresses and the PD client you know, which was a so, like, a home router or whatever. release the address, release the prefix when it shouldn't then. So They're they're, you know, there's a lot of operational issues that are not fully discussed in the RFC. Now we could add a section and and Michael Richardson had proposed a a short little paragraph that we could add to to address this particular issue, And you like the the project's allocation section, But, you know, the other question is that there's a lot of new work that's tets. That's been done. There's 2 RFCs that have been published that provide a lot more operational information. I don't recall the RC numbers right top of my head, but there's 2 RFCs that have been written that provide a lot of the operational things, and these were postrc8415. So one of the questions is should we reference as informational those documents, It's possible that there might be some downdraft issues, But I think if we leave them informational references they won't, They don't necessarily cover this particular issue in full but it's pretty close. Tim, did you wanna add something? No. There's there's people at the mic. They're not in the queue though, Bernie. I don't know if you can see him. So I'm gonna Yep. I can see. Yes. Go ahead. Okay. Aaron Copa Bell for radius project. So I was wondering if you raised the questions on the mailing list about the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "poorly behaved, seas. So one of the the key things here, it's RFC 9096 is the one with recommendations, and there's 2 paragraphs that would solve the majority of problems. The first states that a c forming dhtv6pd should not release it's pretext delegation, 1 reboots, which would solve sort of flash cut issue that we have And the second recommendation is that figures are essentially sent to all the downstream land DHT clients if anything changes or the and that would solve 2. issues. Firstly, firstly, If DHCP vFax options change in the prefix stellar don't propagate downwards in a timely way. at the moment, they not the first thing it would solve. and the second thing it would solve would be flash cutting and the downstream clients having an incorrect prefix. So you you could include an informational reference. that given the the very limited scope of the text. I think you're just easier to rooted into document. because it's a a really big issue. I mean, some of the one of the the points raised on the mailing list was no one uses my prefixes. But 9096 says that 37% of the responding ISB's employee dynamic IPV6 from there. UK not network operates as well. So So it's obviously in use. And maybe one of the reasons why this hasn't come up before is because when end users have a problem, they just disable assets. Well, No. I mean, with with with what we what I've been seeing with this is that a lot of CPEs do not do PD on the LAN side. Right? There was a draft about this. This is not a commonly deployed thing, which is why I do not think it's the massive problem that it will be."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:04",
    "text": "when people start to turn that on. So I I hear that for the 8415 part of this, I have mixed feelings on this because CPEs special, and people go read those drafts, and the CPEs have always had special. RFCs to specify their specific requirements, and it's different than something, like, an 8415 client would do in an enterprise. for example. So so I'm I'm tempted to say what Bernie said and said, we should put informative references CPE should go read this stuff because you wouldn't there's no point in having generic 8415 client do some of these things. So I I hear what you're saying. I know I I I agree at one point, but at the same time, I'm also leery of messing with 8415. regular stuff. But I I do Bernie, I'm sure you have more comments about that. Yeah. I mean, I I personally think there's a good argument to be made you know, to reference the newer RCs because, obviously, 8415 predates 90, 96, And so know, providing Readers of whatever they, you know, DCPV6rc2b, is information about other documents that they should go look at in specific cases, I think is a good thing to do. And I think the kids should just be informational. documents. So That's just my opinion. But I think this is something we're gonna discuss with our AD a little bit further and figure out what the And and, you know, we'll we'll also discuss it on the mailing list. But the idea is that we we we wanna be careful about how much we add to it because if we add a lot of text, we we may end up you know, having a big set of big debates about it, and we'll also need a justification for why we did this. It's pretty easy to justify. We added references to newer operational RFCs that have been published since 8415,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "was published I think that's pretty easiest to tell people, you know, these are operational documents that you should go look at if you're going to implement app specific device. such as a CPU Yeah. And I I tend to agree. It's just those recommend sort of preferred and valid lifetime clamping already in there. pre fixed delegation that seems like all the stuff is absolutely in the same vein. Like, there is no real distinction between recommendation, send the recon a message press investments not have out leases for the last month. your rebates delegation. but but but I'll I'll raise a p r, and you can see how small the tax isn't that later economic discussion about it's really not Yeah. Do that. Send it to the list. and we can review it Okay. My other point was actually about the previous slide. So I'm wondering why unicast the unicast option was deprecated because there seems to be an outstanding issue with DHCP 6 when you're using it with relays. and that you have to send all packets to every upstream dacvserver There's no mechanism described for filtering based on service several ID. and removing the unicast options sort of seems to make this worse. because now there's absolutely no way of sending direct packets towards Well, in most of the scenarios where relays are involved The The relays want to add stuff because often the server needs that additional information. this This was a know, this was one of the huge architectural changes we made when when we did DHCP 6, was to make communication always go through the relay. We did provide the out with a server unicast option to to bypass"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "But in the in the days of DHCP where clients would send renewal requests directly to the server, that caused all sorts of funny problems in a lot of the operation networks that relied on that relay information being there, which wasn't And so, you know, there's I don't know how much life. The the server unicast option is really used in the field. from all the information we have, it's hardly ever used. And in fact, I think I think you mentioned it, or I somebody on that discussion mentioned that there are relays that actually remove that option if it appears in the client you know, and the message is gonna go to the client. right, right, Yeah. The sponsor of this conference way that their equipment removes at the 7750 sort of defeating it. Wait. Wait. Okay. at@at That's a fair reason to remove it then. I think maybe as part of next steps, so we could have discussion around making the transmission of packets that could be unicast from relays. more efficient because there's other things as well, like server ID. appears at a random place in the packet, and that's what you need to filtering coming requests coming into DH56 server. So you have to do a complete branching decode of back where you can filter it. So, anyway, New slots done. Thanks. Eric, Yeah. Like like, I can ask Ewinglink, the AD like Michael asked on the chat, about this slide, So, obviously, any documents can make an informative reference 2 informational draft or whatever. But the thing The done right first only happens when you have a normative reference to an informational document. There's nothing links about Newell or after. So that should be clear. Now, The real question really, whether those documents will be normative or informative. Right? And for this menu, we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "You just discussed this about this morning. Right? So I need to read the document and to check whether those new documents are really normative or information that Okay. Okay. Thank you, Mary. Okay. Thank you. I think there's yeah. So next steps, you know, we we have to clean up these these last little issues about improving the text, there's a few minor typos that we'll also need to fix But you know, we hope that the the 3, maybe the last one, but You never know. So tentatively, I I'd like to to do this sooner, I'd like to actually, you know, I'm I'm hoping that we can get this done so that we can send the documents to the ISG before Hi, Jeff. 118, but you know, this is one maybe more realistic schedule given you know, the the amount of work left and getting people to review the changes. Alright. That's it. name is Bernie. I think that's it for today. Right? was everything. That Okay. If anyone doesn't have any other business, then I guess can conclude the DHCP working group, we've got like we said, we've got 2 working groups 2 working group drafts ongoing both presented today, which is great. Send comments to the list follow-up on all the great stuff. Thanks, Ben, for taking notes, and thanks everyone for being here. We got some questions. Go ahead, Lorenzo. Sorry. Sorry. was looking down. I I So just just sort of a, I don't know, maybe process question. So have this V Six upstock We which is talking about how to do DGPD,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "Yeah. on sort of a broadcast networks, And we sort of also, like, gearing up to try to get some documented 6 man adopted on how to you know, on how to signal availability of DCPD just to wanted to say, you know, how do we get folks in this group to sort of maybe take a look and make sure that, you know, Yeah. I would. I would yeah. For the draft that I'm working on, I send Should we just, like, send it -- to snack for the same reason. I have the same problem. And the basics ops is where it's living, but another working group needs to stare at the stuff. So I would totally just CCS on the next version of this, and we'll go take a look. You're right. I don't think we've had any traffic like, get confused on I'm on both mailing lists. don't think we've had any DHE Yeah. But I traffic on that draft. That's probably a good idea, Lauren. So I think we're gonna one of them, we're gonna ask for think we 6 ops last call this this week. then in that case, here we should definitely go here, and we should send it here as well. Okay. Thanks. great idea. Okay. Now this time for real. Does anyone have anything else they wanna chat about? Okay. Thanks, everybody. End of the meeting. Thank you so much. Take care."
  }
]
