[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "our entire table okay so okay maybe while he\u0027s not presenting for that to help oh let me just keep in mind because right now there\u0027s only one person in the victim that\u0027s being well and kind of softens joints too do you have the slide so do you want me to do this okay and then you do that okay all right good morning everyone one more day to go okay technically two days cuz we\u0027re just starting the first session on Thursday so just in case welcome to the mile working group just letting you know we are going to talk "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:04",
    "text": "about mile here the note well I\u0027m not gonna read it to you but hopefully you\u0027re well aware we just have to go through the process knowing going through the participation in IPR and then for the agenda today we pretty much have the working group items that we want to get update it\u0027s on and if there\u0027s anything any new topics we\u0027ve we\u0027ve got some time we\u0027ve got a short slot and all the author said they only needed a few minutes to provide the update so if we\u0027re lucky we may let you go early how\u0027s that so anybody have objections to the agenda or anything to add to it going once going twice but it is called agenda bashing you you have your chance you know you\u0027re now done okay we\u0027re moving on so here\u0027s a volunteers thank you for being a note taker and describe creates Roman and different sentiment very much for the help so here is a all my work space as you know we still have three draft working first one in the JSON are you there the second way that see such Rory Sun one is XMPP great all of them would be addressed here today and I would like to discuss a bit about milestone we are largely behind the schedule so we have to set up a milestone for the XMPP great and Rory see that station on JSON your day we have to define that milestone when shall we have a walk but noob last call for simply great first okay I\u0027m now speaking as an individual Nancy came one jet um so yes I was bad I was remiss in getting the updates within a month so the updates are posted and the question is getting review so I\u0027m trying to remember at the last session I know Adam and Bill you guys had volunteered to review the draft we can reach out to David Cridland if we can get a couple of other volunteers the question would be when we can get feedback so given that you guys are here is it reasonable for you guys to update the draft provide and then give feedback go ahead Adam on film update the draft "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:10",
    "text": "or comment no no no comment on the desert sorry yeah totally and I have some questions that we could ask now or I\u0027m happy to circle around after okay well I\u0027ve got five minutes and then so you actually have to Shepherd the draft so you know we\u0027ll have to figure out based on when we get the comments put some time for me to react and update the draft and then we need to post the question to the group whether the group believes the draft is ready for last call and then I would add you know one more working group session to push it through the isg yes that would be my recommendation it\u0027s okay to write like this we try to have a vacuum that\u0027s called by a 100 or three so that we can Ishi eights so that we can post a draft to the a/c in the next meeting I think that\u0027s doable but it depends on how much time you will need to review you need more time you\u0027re ok with the dates yes ok IETF 103 is November yeah okay thank you so how about roadie season extension can i delay that conversation until my presentation at the end of the things thanks about what you got well before the next meeting but we still have to wait for the completion of TDD our spec that is discussing data so if it\u0027s okay we can move forward next agenda is about the reveal of the errata we got for a router in this three months if you take a look at web page this is the rotor so it\u0027s the aerator of 7970 first one is about the aerator of the type so there are in this errata the XP should be array or not what discussed you can read it later but anyway basically all they wrote about confound by rama already ramos origin editors RFC switch in 1970 so all the rota is valid so I hope you can take a look at data for this the first one is about the data type of XP the second a router is about okay secondly rate is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:10",
    "text": "about X being Soria first a rota is about the explanation of the main body you can take a look at it just before that - nothing the third one is this is a indicator ID of alternative and indicated ID it used to be indicated by the indicator ID it used to be indicator ID reference for exit but the Amata says indicator IDs right one for Islam but again take a look at errata data this is the correct one and we also other two editorial I write it again you can take a look at that web page I don\u0027t think we have any objection for that but just to share the situation so if it\u0027s okay we can move on to the next agenda wait so one question taki um will you be able to put a draft two documents the errata or do we need to have somebody else document it thank you that was my question I was about to add the same question yeah thinking about the document or obese or whatever typically we put an art another RFC draft yes we do oh I should let these I think eventually you should I mean there is no hard rule about that you need to do like deal with it right away I mean it depends on its how problematic it is do you have willing editors and might I might I suggest actually teeing off what you said actually to wait a little bit I think maybe we might find something in the i/o def JSON kind of work as we\u0027re kind of advancing that I don\u0027t know maybe we\u0027ll find something and if we do then we can roll that up into one one kind of update wait procedural question the JSON draft is about the JSON instantiation the errata that\u0027s shown here is more general and I don\u0027t know that we can just refer to the JSON but that\u0027s just maybe what what I meant more to say is that we\u0027re looking really really hard at the data model that got published in high def feet you ever in kind of this erotic as part of the JSON kind of migration and I\u0027m wondering as we get more and more eyes kind of look at adding it looking at that data model we\u0027re finding kind of this errata through the process of constructing the json draft so you\u0027re saying there may be more perhaps there might be one more and I said no penalty and waiting maybe a little bit longer okay just in case something services just to save as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:11",
    "text": "perhaps the trouble okay my preference is the chair is to begin to document it so I\u0027d like to see it either tracked somewhere to me the best way to track it is to have a draft I think that this is very reasonable attitude and you have you know if you have willing editors or editor yeah so my next question is is anybody willing to be an editor for this I\u0027m willing to clean up the mess I made thank you Roman so noted okay then we prepare any slides because the updates were small so I can either put the RFC death up or I can just speak to it so in in the last session the feedback that I received was that it was difficult to understand what was mandatory to implement so we added a paragraph in the main XMPP section to say if you want to be compliant with XMPP grid you have to implement the mandatory to implement descriptions that are in the base XMPP drafts and I reference the two drafts there and then Adam I think it was you and Bill had also commented on the operational and management aspects of it and after long discussions with my co-author we debated and said that those things were really not in scope but it was fare to actually provide some I\u0027ll say descriptive but not normative language to how you might go about doing this and so we actually inserted a new section for that the third question that came up was the draft is about how we can use the IO death as a topic that can be pub/sub if you will through XMPP and and again I had the discussion with my co-author and as it turns out so it was a question of do we create an Diana registry as it turns out there\u0027s already a registry for the XMPP topics in XMPP org which again we noted so in the draft but if you really feel that we need some liaison or something then I was going to reach out to Alexi and say you know is there a way to just do a reference a more formal reference for how you do that process but yeah if you want to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:15",
    "text": "send me a specific question I can either relate to Zeb Foundation and you know ask them but I think because some people are sort of participating in both there and here I think we probably it\u0027s a well-understood we figure out the reference yeah he updated the draft to how he felt it should be sufficient yeah okay yeah we can take it offline I\u0027m happy for this yeah all right thanks Wow Adam artful again and so yeah right yeah so the two things that were changed or yeah you know pretty good I think for a mile and my interest is obviously more on the second side or our interest okay on the second side so that I have specific questions about the first bullet bullet in Section 10 that new section yeah but operational concerns which really speaks to before you set this up I think it was basically something like providers and consumers need to agree on common nodes right or whatever the terminology is coming yeah and all that so from a second perspective like I really want to standardize the semantics behind what those topics are yeah and so that so right so for sockem sockem needs to agree so Hank and I started mapping an information model to a data model so so basically in Sakon what we did here in Nile was a mile we already had the topic which is IO death so we need to do the same thing in stack them and so again we\u0027re not speaking about Sakon we would go and register that topic in XMPP org got it okay yep all right yeah I did so let\u0027s talk about all flooring because like the comments we have at this point are pretty minimal yeah I\u0027m more than happy to help with that so I think that\u0027s it so if we and I\u0027ll reach out to Dave Cridland to make sure that we can provide feedback there and so then taki you can post a question to the group whether the group believes we\u0027re ready for last call right that\u0027s it see five minutes thanks so next let me talk about my graph our draft it\u0027s about Jason bindings so in the previous meeting we agreed to use CD DL rather than JSON schema JSON schema had a problem of the drug itself it will not fly anywhere we have to wait so sorry I have a to talk so ya know I can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:17",
    "text": "thank you so in the previous meeting we had a discussion with we should keep using JSON schema or not the answer was no we should not use JSON schema because JSON schema is not going to be RFC pretty soon so the discussion result was we should try to use G GD l GD G L is expected to be RFC pretty soon I think so too so the change in these three months is to use CD do yes unfold Alexei Melnikov fortunately unfortunately all the JSON schema related things are sort of in mind like to mess it up I see DJ Allen in in Siebel working group my advice is because the whole area is a bit of a mess and there are like two or three competing proposals they cater for different things pick the one that works for you and we can make it work all right so my point is you know if you think CD DL is better for you absolutely go and do it don\u0027t switch just for the sake of you know switching it unless you believe it\u0027s going to help you alright thank you very much so I it was my first time to use the CD DL C GDL what much easier to define the type so I believe CD did much better so next recipes so this is okay so we define the city use we use CD DL and JSON schema is now moved to the appendix we don\u0027t have to delete it we just kept it in the appendix but if necessary we generated so basically we chose c DD l and my plan is we do not have to wait for the CD dl to be RFC we can issue working working of last call before CD do become an RFC but we still have to wait anyway before the publication the next time please yes oh yeah this is a rata staff we had an errata so we have to that\u0027s right okay a quick question so the purpose in using CD DL is that for verification of the data initially yes but now no now I think we want to define CD DL as far because we have a CD we have to describe iof seaboard as well now okay yeah cuz I\u0027m all for using some of these new cool you know stuff but there\u0027s no tooling yet for CD DL so it\u0027s it makes it really like I am using okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:17",
    "text": "but yeah partly right I guess I\u0027m using the tool provided by cousin cousin have mentioned that in appendix F was a draft he enlisted tour made by Ruby that\u0027s useful even though it\u0027s not perfect it\u0027s okay Frank shahuri just a question for clarification so you mean you in this water you were using it here so that means finally the the SIBO is your format to write to to do the message I want to do both Jason and silver it doesn\u0027t produce any work good for me okay hello if there are any reason to choose only one that\u0027s fine but at this moment I don\u0027t see any reason to choose only one okay Dave Walter Meyer yeah the reason for using CDL is you get basically both C Bar and JSON for free because the CDL can support both models that\u0027s also one of the reasons why not to use JSON schema which is limited specifically the JSON it\u0027s an excellent piece so only one question or discussion point is barukh observable list maybe I should discuss it romantic victory but let me just write it here in RFC 7970 a bulk observable is a string but if I write it like this like this it\u0027s more like an array so whether we should keep it as a text or array it\u0027s a choice I wonder we can use array that\u0027s easier if there\u0027s no objection I think an array is a better idea thank you very much and we forward yeah we still have to work on CD DL a bit after that we will reach an expression after that we would like to ask you to review data end of the world oh yes thank you very much any other questions comments no okay okay this is Steven bang hard I\u0027m gonna be talking about current role a document status here and mile and I\u0027m probably gonna bleed over into any other business a little bit as well so next slide in case you were not aware the Rolly cord draft was published that was before the last IETF I think that\u0027s RFC 832 - so that all went very very well next slide so we\u0027re still working on the Rolly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:19",
    "text": "discovery draft that we presented the 0/0 version of last IETF we have a working prototype test implementation internally testing our DNS SD work so we\u0027re going to take the lessons that we\u0027ve learned from that and actually start doing the specification work around getting that down onto the onto paper and and really kind of deciding on things like resource names service names all that kind of stuff so with any luck we\u0027ll have a zero one version before the next IETF that includes some more technical details next slide please so I did not post an update to roll AC cert it\u0027s still the zero zero that it was last i e TF however I do have an update and that\u0027s not just an excuse I made up I actually do have an update however there have been many new audiences that have become interested in the work that we\u0027re doing with Roly in audiences at different organizations at different stos groups that are not familiar with a lot of the work that we\u0027re doing here and they have expressed that they have a desire to have an entry point into this Roly work something that they can read that is familiar to them and that provides value add to the work that they do with that said I think the best way to address that use case is to split the Roly c-cert document into two AC sir I mean a document that just addresses the i/o diffuse case and we can really focus on the i/o def format and then one document that focuses on the sticks format from the Oasis working group the text for each of those is largely complete at this point they\u0027re both in the c-cert draft already so that draft already has a stick section in it this proposal is really just to split it into a separate document to make socializing and sharing this draft a little bit easier and to provide some better prose at the front to really make everything flow better next slide please so this draft would be out of the charter of mile we as we showed at the beginning that table that we had XMPP grid Roli JSON io def those are kind of the last things on the Charter however I think there is enough interest in doing this Roley extension work to push for a recharter small recharter not to completely change the purpose of this group but to make sure that we have a place in the Charter to cover the last few Rolly extensions that we\u0027re working on to get it done to get it all wrapped up and to kind of get everything out the door and I think in order to accomplish that we need a little bit more time in the working group and I think that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:20",
    "text": "going to require a recharter so it\u0027s my proposal to do that do I have next slide I forget if I have it next slide now I can go back one no not yet so I would pose a question to the chairs here this kind of pushes into any other business and I\u0027ve left the rest of my slides because these are also new things that we would like to do it and I want to talk about that after we have a brief recharter discussion if that works for the chairs yeah I mean the current Charter really speaks to just the IO def and the IO de transport so I do think we would have to change the Charter okay right um that it\u0027s no longer just about IO def we\u0027re now including another date a model if you will or just generic incident exchange well I don\u0027t want to make it generic because then we may be getting other formats coming in right but I mean that\u0027s the opinion as the chair but would like to hear you know others comment on whether this group should continue whether there\u0027s interest and how we move forward okay any thoughts on recharter yeah I support to extend it to the sticks but on the other hand I want to ask you with that we have to explicitly for the sticks or we can extend it to the general threat intelligence data currently in the world people working on the threat interest not only for the sticks for not only for IO the people are working 13 kitchens right so that was the question I just asked Paki right yeah no that so the concern that I have is is there other and I mean it\u0027s a personal concern it\u0027s just more to the longevity of the Charter of how but it\u0027s really up to the group right do we just well first is there enough interest second is the interest just for sticks or do we make it more general to any other incident so so tacky as an individual has expressed the broader okay yeah and talky I think from a personal perspective I kind of lean towards that as well just because there are a lot of people that care about that okay right Bret Jordan I would support this if it pleased the chairs to allow us to do that in the 80s to allow us to do that I think that I can speak someone authoritative Leon part of this matter so it would be nice if there was an entry point into Rowley for a sticks content and the reason for that is Rowley and its counterpart in the sticks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:21",
    "text": "world taxi very similar and I would hope at some point in the future they could actually converge and so having a means by which stakes content could be delivered by Roly would be a nice thing especially for people in this you know organization or this group or people that follow the IETF more closely that they\u0027re looking to implement really but they\u0027re looking to do more of the threat television stuff that comes out of say sticks it would be it would be nice oh I would support that okay so but just to restate you are in support of at minimum the sticks if not broader you\u0027re okay with doing the broad I\u0027m okay doing better yeah so the only caution I\u0027m gonna throw is I would not put taxi in the Charter no I\u0027m not suggesting that at all I I would just seeing\u0027s how I do work on those in full disclosure and so I am an editor on sticks and an author on taxi so I I do know those intimately so when I as I do begin to work on Roly it would be nice if there was entry points that you could wrap sticks content into okay so since you are affiliated with both the other thing that we would have to put in the Charter would be something attune to the liaison and as to who has I guess the rights and I\u0027m presuming there\u0027s no IP encumbered with sticks so I don\u0027t think we would run into any problems with IP that\u0027s not the question that\u0027s not the question I asked so there is sticks is not of just a free those IP around it so that may be an issue we are going to make sure that that\u0027s all taken care of given that we\u0027re just making references we I so all of that needs to be made very clear so so that\u0027s one the second one is what we in the IETF are allowed to do with sticks is it that we just take it and we\u0027re just putting the transport around it with the discovery mechanisms or do we intend and are we allowed to make modifications and extensions we don\u0027t I I don\u0027t as part of this retiring effort have any intention of actually making any modification extensions or anything to stay yeah I would make sure that it\u0027s in or mites my personal opinion that it should not be in the Charter to do that kind of thing so this is all part of how we craft the language in the Charter yes we need to be deliberate when we write the Charter absolutely yeah my opinion would be that it would be just referenced like you know if you want to include stakes content this is how you do it but not that we are going to try to so Chris I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:24",
    "text": "hoping you\u0027re capturing all this in the notes maybe relish sir Stephen can you help clarify for me what exactly we would recharter and maybe this is some of the retarder and kind of finesse so we are talking about reach are during to create a constellation of extension drafts to Roley and each draft covers a particular type of threat Intel data we want to share I intended more to be so the the catalyst for this was wanting to include Roley sticks on my next slide there is two other drafts that would be part of this constellation but that don\u0027t involve the its this is just some swirly extensions right so really JSON for example is something that the community has expressed interest in and that were a Brett and I are co-authoring and still working on and we\u0027ve gotten interest from that I think the last two IETF and I I think there could probably be a debate if Roly JSON is part of the current Charter but I think there was interest in it right so it\u0027s it\u0027s not going to be personally my plan for drafts to do here right is these the io def document and the sticks document right and I think that there\u0027s interest in this group and retiring to support those things so does that answer your question I\u0027m not I\u0027m not I I mean I don\u0027t think that the recharter should include well it\u0027s up to the group okay let me let me restate what I think you said which may be what Roman was asking which is your intent is really just to show the mapping of rouille not just with IO def but potentially other incident formats like sticks right I mean so in a sense are we going to enumerate the specific targets we are gonna work on this this and this or are we saying we will carry not anything to your concern but a specific family of things so right as we think if so milestones related to right so what I have heard so far and as the chair the reach are Turing would be Rolly as the transport mechanism for different incident formats we started with IO def so the Charter is very much about IO def today so what I\u0027ve heard so far is we\u0027re going to update the Charter to include Rolly as a transport and discovering mechanism that could include other incident formats like sticks and what I heard from others is they\u0027d like to be able to consider other formats "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:24",
    "text": "beyond sticks and I think this is a as you said Roman a charter finessed thing we want to tightly scoped this we don\u0027t want to let it get out of hand I don\u0027t want which is why I mentioned I don\u0027t want to include taxi because that\u0027s and this is this is absolutely as tightly scoped as as absolutely possible yes Dave altameyer so I chair IP second me we do a lot of extension work there and what we\u0027ve done and that Charter is explicitly enumerate the individual work item that were that we\u0027re addressing as extensions and that\u0027s been really helpful to kind of keep the effort you know constrained to to just those drafts that you know that we\u0027re working on it also gives us a way to sort of manage the work on a on a cyclical you know basis as we start to wind down that work if there\u0027s additional extensions to do than we have simply just recharter to you know to add those additional extensions to the links that\u0027s a fair point I think that would work well here well which is why I asked the first question is it just sticks and I heard from two other individuals it may not just be sticks yeah I\u0027m perfectly fine being very prescriptive and tight in the actual draft right but we are consensus driven so I would like to get the opinion before we put proposed text to the Charter Update so thanks Kathleen Moriarty nobody anymore [Laughter] I was Karen on Tuesday and today I said I could be Kathleen I was like no I can\u0027t fill those shoes yes you could and and she could too and so I think extensibility would be good to make this more useful to allow for formats to be specific I agree with Nancy I think trying to combine multiple transports is a scary thought and a very bad one because it could result in just lots of problems yes but minimally for sticks and maybe depending on how you do it as an extension mechanism for other formats as they arise do we have examples of explicit other formats no I mean we have well are you asking about different formats in general it\u0027s formats okay yeah so I all right so under that whole heading I think it\u0027s fine to allow them right in the original intent of all the work we did going back to inch allowed for other formats and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:24",
    "text": "that\u0027s what I\u0027m trying to so thanks Kathleen I\u0027m just trying to get a sense of you know we can be black and white sticks only but what I\u0027m hearing from the group is no make anyone believe something make it useful have a solid transport that people can use and then it has a chance to be used widely yeah actually usable sorry yeah that was a comment as an individual okay so Roman didn\u0027t just to follow up my series of questions yeah I\u0027m generally supportive of carry different types of data formats not so supportive of talking about more transports yeah thank you it would be great if we back to this idea of kind of extension mechanisms that if we made the extension drafts we create as slim as possible and we put all the hooks that we need in the world we draft itself the core drive architecture away yeah yeah I think you\u0027ll find that that\u0027s the case yes thank ya I think this can only build on what Roman said so do you have the base roli stuff that is effectively your called transport I think then you have formats in there Jason will be a new format or whatever encoding and then you have semantics in there you wanna transport and I am mandating that every semantics has to support every encoding or can they choose and so because if I serialization I\u0027m a and then I\u0027m doing vulnerabilities and I\u0027m a because it\u0027s not so Jason so this is if you somehow have a hierarchy here as we already established a high recon you have to document it I\u0027ve documented that\u0027s a really really good comment actually thank you so so [Laughter] good he missed the comment move on okay so I think now as we\u0027re contemplating different encoding Zandro lis the group should contemplate a mandatory to implement because right now if you\u0027re saying multiple this is to address Hanks comment if we now come in are we forcing sticks to support XML and JSON and see Boris oh no the way that Rolie works is that it just provides a link to the piece of content the content can be in any encoding any format the the encoding and format of rolling has no implications for the encoding or format of the content involved additionally this really JSON work is a binding and it is a way of representing your view into Roly with a different response type right so it\u0027s it\u0027s inherently in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:24",
    "text": "extension right off the bat I don\u0027t think we\u0027re gonna have any problems with with interacting with the different formats here Hanks question was good I know what you mean because of the vulnerability extensions they need to also support JSON obviously as we\u0027re working on this extension they will okay also I think as you\u0027re using HTTP at some version you can request and they get or whatever you use a specific encoding yep I can even move as a set of them yes and you will always know this is going to work using the transfer or I\u0027m not yeah I\u0027m I\u0027m using the word term transport now because usually and but with respect to data models I mean yes the same CVE may be reference so you have to I\u0027ll have another problem because you don\u0027t know which format to expect so only cause requests will never cease would really don\u0027t ever be in Jason you still don\u0027t know how to process them so I think we should take this offline all what if some of the properties that we use in Roli to address that occasion somehow I think that needs to be captured in the graph too but all of that will be captured in the Roli JSON Draft as well okay okay so I guess at this point let me ask the question this way does anybody object to the reach our Turing to allow for Roli accepting other formats beyond IO death no it\u0027s just no I\u0027m just asking for an objection going once going twice see this makes it easier okay good so we will take that to the male group and get confirmation and we will come up with propose reach our Turing text and since this is my first time I will ask counsel from Alexi forget steps so when you say we come up you guys are going to come up with a word you mean that we the working group well I mean we can talk offline some subset of you will come up with the new text that writing group agrees on send it on to the mailing list discuss quickly actually give me the text I\u0027ll push the buttons and data tracker - okay perfect okay okay so that\u0027s it\u0027s the Royal we okay but all of this needs to be confirmed in the male group yep will confirm it that we can talk offline about it okay great so I guess I will very very very quickly talk about the things that the future work for Olli right so the Roli JSON work obviously that we\u0027ve been talking about we\u0027ve been working on a 0-0 draft "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:25",
    "text": "this is co-authored between Brett and I and we fully intend to have that zero zero draft published and ready for people to look at at least as a preliminary version for Bangkok then the vulnerability draft is more or less ready at this point and I\u0027ll have that submitted very shortly I just didn\u0027t want to submit it until we had this conversation yeah I mean part of the reach are during we probably need to put preliminary milestones yep so yeah we can represent all this in milestones okay okay so that is all I have I think as long as men have their slide I was surprised myself new slides sometimes no nothing all right there we go we\u0027re good all right thank you everyone see we finished kind of on time but early from our slot so does anybody have any other business relating to mile just a very small net so idea i just approved one of the milestones you added for the document you just discussed which was saying November 2017 yes can chairs put a new date on it oh it was 2018 so in general you know if you just can do a pass and don\u0027t spend too much working group time but your milestone so that I have an idea when when you want to do stuff okay so what I\u0027ve done with Ben on tape is we just coordinated on email once the group agrees and you help me update yeah I mean you can do it yourself and data tracker or you just tell me what you want yes yes that\u0027s true I still need to approve it but you know if you just put that the better dates you know which are not in 2017 okay well well well update it to more precise times Thanks okay any other topics discussions relating to my own what oh you\u0027d be surprised you think you want to discuss later yeah yes okay so along with this discussion we just had I\u0027ll move forward with splitting the Caesar extension into two documents I\u0027ll have those posted both absolutely before Bangkok way before that so we should probably discuss them at Bangkok and decide if a last call is appropriate at that time so you know depending on what the group decides last call after well so you\u0027re gonna update "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:28",
    "text": "the see sort extension draft I\u0027m gonna split it into two right so I think that we probably are not going to be ready to do working group last call agree agree yeah so I would put the working group last call to April 2019 okay so my formula is give the people give the people give the working group one face to face so that we can discuss after that you get to update right so that gives us a November after that you get to update and then we posed a question at the next face to face and then I give you a month yeah which is why I\u0027m putting in a month after the next face to face it sounds perfect to me right okay so Alexi those are the dates so so we can post the slides or email them to you we\u0027re good yeah you can always beat your own milestones you know this hardly ever happens but you know that you will get brownie points for this oh I\u0027ll bring you some sweets or something okay the challenge is on okay third last call for discussion our order of business I better call one two three okay enjoy the free time thanks everyone that\u0027s okay so I tried and I couldn\u0027t edit everything this part but this was 14 so I just emailed them then our area come on you know you can so try to fix the data tracks oh okay maybe you can show me cuz I tried doing it yeah and so then just did it "
  }
]