[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:10",
    "text": "okay all right welcome everybody we've got uh a hybrid audience i think uh not that many people in the room six seven and late a lot of good food in the outside feel free to come in let me get started so this is the notewell you should all be aware of it um i'm not going to dwell on it any longer but please comply with it now as far as the procedures are concerned um so what's new and exciting here so shang had a change of affiliation um he went from uh you know a huawei to individual contributor and being in beijing the time of day is really really bad for him so we agreed that he'll listen to it afterwards but he was very uh much active in the preparation of uh the meeting so um he's he's going to be very happy to continue this work um area director nothing new um so we're always abusing the um minutes notes page also for the agenda of the items after the chair slides so uh go there and help with the notes and and see the agenda and all the urls for it there is no physical blue sheet but i would really ask everybody in the room to get onto meat echo either on the phone or the notebook and join the session because otherwise you will not be counted and then maybe we will not have 100 seats free but i mean they're they're doing planning for for the size"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "of the working groups and also you may want to show up in the proceedings as having attended certain working groups they will not happen by just sitting there not doing anything and we don't have any official jabber scribe but that's just the chat so hopefully enough people in the room can help out with questions when people on the on the remote side are confused about what's going on in the room but otherwise just come to the microphone okay we're applying early ipr disclosure um process in this working group which means that um the latest when we're asking for ipr disclosures is when we're adopting uh works for the working group you're also happy to do ipr disclosures for any individual submissions you're doing i'm i'm typically doing that for mine um and so we don't want to run into the issue of doing the ipr disclosure question only when stuff is being moved into the isg at the very tail end so we now have nine rfcs and so they're implementers of anima protocol specs so be sure that you are aware of the errata that we have or even better so you discover new erratas and then you can use that process to make others aware of if anything we've specified isn't working out as it should um and there is the url here and if you have any questions write ask on the mailing list or just the chairs all right where are we so the new rfc is uh was a draft ietf enema asa guidelines that or was in rfc editor queue at itf-113 so it passed through and yeah we've got a new rfc congratulations to the i think also all sleeping authors uh being in the pacific sorry in the um asian time zones new zealand and so on uh brian and others"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "right we have three working group drafts without slot ass so those are the ones that i would like to maybe get quick statements for the notes here don't think how i can share that quickly but let's say we've got the brewski cloud is there any you know quick thing to put in the note for it uh michael richardson so i guess i'm responsible for all three of those um risky cloud isn't the same state it was in 113 which is we we're we'd like a working group last call um we haven't changed anything um it has a we'll have a normative reference on a lamp's document that is not yet adopted but that's not our problem um so voucher delegation still a lot of interest in it there is some work outside the ietf doing something similar and um we should do what they did um that may somewhat require us to wait for them to publicly publish but other than that it's basically it it is it needs attention okay uh 8366 bis i did provide some a slide which we might get to at the end um and there are working group decisions that need to be made about what to do with it exactly um whether it goes to internet standard or not is the question that's it from me okay so i've taken as a working item for myself to do the review and the working group last call for the brewski cloud and the other two or so maybe let's ping in in two months or so to see how we can take up steam on them because i think there's a lot of other items that we do have slots which are more important just wanted to track it with the working group chair slides all"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "right so these others will have slots for so what's on the tail end um yeah so this is my long reminder which i'm not going to read in detail but please you know especially if you're a co-author of any of the drafts uh please you know figure out which other drafts you want to do reviews for and you know swap the token buckets back and forth so that we get more reviews in the working group because i think nmr is one of the many working groups where the isg is rightfully complaining of having to do more work than it should uh do all right and one particular um you know uh nice way to do it is to become a shepherd for for a document which doesn't only mean a review but also some interesting itf process that the help that the chairs will happily help you with um you know preparing a working group you know a shepherd document and so on so that's a nice way to learn a little bit of the bureaucracy of the itf if you ever want to become something like a secretary or working group chair or something like that that's the smallest step to take okay and um yeah so this uh these these working group meetings end up being a lot procedural kind of remembering what you know marks to do which next steps to do in the process and maybe not enough time for technical discussion and um so that just means you're not asking enough to have forums for technical discussions when we're running out of time doing it three times a year in these meetings um so if you have that feeling for for your document please come to us chairs and and we'll we'll talk with you how to improve on that and uh most of the you know active work in the animal working group was started by contributors just organizing themselves and that's actually the brewski design team which is now meeting weekly from 11 to 12 eastern standard time url is is here and that's pretty much doing most of uh you know the coordinating work for the brewski"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "documents and i'm also trying to smuggle some acp stuff into it when uh there is time for it but obviously um if we have contributors of of other work um that that would like to have a separate meeting perfectly happy to set that up i'm tooling reminders so pretty much all of the anima individual submission and working group drafts are on the inofficial anima working group github mailing list that allows us very easily to you know have every individual submission go into it and not bother with you know any constraints that the official github procedures would otherwise put on us and i think that's been very helpful and successful over the past few years right and that brings me actually to the end of the official share slides any questions suggestions any agenda bashing going once going twice all right so i'm looking now at the notes page and next thing up is um number one would be stefan you can step to the microphone and uh do you find the slides yourself should i uh bring them up for you oh i just requested yeah i requested the preloaded one so okay that okay i'm still okay just a second i'm still seeing your slides in another jws voucher [Music] there we go is that now no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "okay okay i'm not sure what's what's happening here um sorry oh okay yeah so i'm trying i'm not sure what my problem is with uh getting the meeting materials uh i think you somehow shared uh so i could skip to your slides now that's interesting you need to stop sharing your own slides and then stefan can select the ones he wants to share okay so for whatever reason the video is not working i still get an error message that the video is not working so you should see the first slide of update on jws signed vouchers okay perfect so i'm still trying to switch on the video because it's always nice to have some face to the slides oh it's there it's working perfect so i would like to give an update on jws science vouchers so that is describing a draft describing jws signed voucher artifacts for bootstrapping protocols and this is a draft from michael richardson and thomas verna and thomas asked me to to do him a favor because he's on vacation so greetings from him and i would like to give an overview about that one so just to have a short recap on what is contained in jws voucher so the motivation to come up with jws voucher stems from rfc 8366 because it specifies cms signed json for voucher artifacts"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "and this draft and contrast proposes to utilize jw assigned json as a further option to that the draft basically changes the encoding but it makes no changes to the young that is defined in 8366 so the format itself can be used by brewski as defined in 8995 and also brewski prm prime which we heard year afterwards relies on the jws form factor so that is basically uh the form factor that that we completely rely on in both key prime so also the jwf options that have been discussed uh in the past was were related to the serialization and are in jws voucher now the the serialization was fixed to general uh jws jason z realization and there was a switch from compact serialization and the reasoning for that was to have more possibilities and also cope with or also be as flexible as other formats that are currently used for the voucher so for instance multiple signatures are only possible when we use the generalized jws json serialization that wasn't possible with a simple or with a compact serialization so multiple signatures are already supported by json and cms as used in 8366 also the constrained voucher draft uses sibo and kosa which also enables the provisioning of multiple signatures of vouchers so that was one of the driving factors to come up with vouchers in jws so how does that all look like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "so the switch from the compact serialization to the uh general json serialization looks like the one on the left-hand side so we have the payload which contains the voucher and just below that we have the signatures and here in the example we have just one signature and uh that is a protected part here with the x5c and then the algorithm that is used here is elliptic curve based signing utilizing sec p 256 r1 and what was included in the version of 4 was this type here to allow for characterizing which type the whole payload is over here on the wire uh that looks like here on the right hand side so this is uh that is that would be the voucher response here so that would uh the view that you see on the wire so those were the the main changes since the last ietf meeting so just to recap the changes here we didn't know there was an update of chapter one the introduction and there was some rework of chapter three regarding the voucher artifact was a json web signature uh based on the fact that we switched the serialization type and in the last version of four this optional header parameter for the type has been added and that is being reflected also in the different examples in the draft itself so that is for the pledge voucher request register voter request and the voter itself so the next thing is uh finalizing the the draft itself then there is some further alignment on going in the burstly design team called uh that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "tallest was referring to and the outcome as usual will be circulated on the mailing list for further discussion so um here there's also some interest and interop testing with others so that would could be for instance in the in the context of bluesky prm which i will report about afterwards uh because for bowski prm also the prototype implementation or the proof of conflict implementation is has been finished and we would be happy to to do interrupt testing with both so jws voucher and specifically also with postgre prm and working group review is appreciated in the same way as tallest also pointed to the fact that for certain drafts shepherds are still being looked for and also for the jws voucher we're looking for a shepherd so if there is interest please come back to us or raise your hands to become a chocolate of that document any question thank you very much um so i already put in the notes kind of the the two process recommendations right um so the uh the changelog would be good to capture the names of you know the people that you know caused the improvements of the document to be made whether it's official review or just in the design team meetings or so that that helps us a lot when we progress the document so that we know how many eyes were laid on the document and then also when you mentioned interop and so on that that can also be put into a to be removed section but any information of actual implementation or interrupt or so are always very good input for ietf and iesg review later on even if it will obviously be removed from the document and would have to come into its own you know deployment experience document later on but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "no reason not to not to write it and that's not specific to this document that i think is for all the documents um getting towards the you know the end of the working group life cycle last call and then further further into it these these two pieces are very helpful for the process so sorry no actual technical input right now no but but that's very good i mean uh we have that since the last itf meeting that we have proof of concept implementations available for several of the drafts and i actually wasn't aware that it would be helpful to put that into the drafts but uh i will take that uh for jws voucher and also for the for the further ski discussions okay thanks i mean we'll come up by i am by the good you know ietf reviewers in in idea review or typically then the director of members isg review and so on so it's it's it's easier not to to do it you know on demand but do it up front when you already have the answers okay perfect thank you later so the next speaker would then be you as well you can right so i can just share the other slide set so this is a longer list of answers here uh so that's the update on risky with pledge in responder mode or short brewski prime i provided a link here to the url that we have on github or the draft so um authors of the drafts are michael richardson elliot leo thomas vanna myself so we we had uh two two versions that were provided to the ietf in the since itf-113 so regarding the main changes from version 2 to version 3 there are mostly editorial improvements so we we got some review comments up front and we got some discussion during the last ietf meeting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "that led to the update of examples uh to be more specific regarding the x5c occurrences so we had some some gibberish printed in there but now it's all called base64 encoded value uh equal equal so that was a line throughout the document and as requested we all also included a graphic into the document but then lately took it out of the document and just provided a link to the document to not have different versions of the text and the pdf file there or the html file uh what was also done to to really improve readability was restructuring of section five uh that was the leftover from where woosky ae and brewski prm were both connected in one draft so we resolved that the the structural issue that we had here in section 5 and basically flattened the hierarchy here we also did some enhancement of requirements and motivation in the section four to have a better motivation for here and as such then uh the main changes from version three to version four were based on the peer review that was being done by esco so thanks a lot esko on that place here for the for the in-depth review by the way besides putting putting reviewers on the acknowledgement i also learned that it is possible to put them as contributors into the document itself so they appear then at least in the xml version of the file so the majority of issues that we received there so those are issues on the gita github site from number 22 to 61. none of them was really a showstopper the majority of issues were targeting improvements of the current description"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "that we have there because in some cases we had ambiguities and in some cases we had to enhance the technical capabilities that we currently described so one of those technical capabilities what was we added support for nonslash vouchers and we had some discussion in the design team or the design team list for that and that one was basically added to allow for provisioning of vouchers via vlc channel so that wouldn't have been possible uh without the non-slice vouchers there so that was one of the issues raised and that was integrated we had a further point a technical point that was raised regarding the uh pledge ca third endpoint so current so up to version three we only had the ca thirds input endpoint uh included on the register side to fetch ca search from the register but we didn't have a specific part or a specific endpoint on the pledge site to provide those ca certificates and that has been added or enhanced on the interface to the on the pledge side so that also came with a requirement at the new registrar endpoint because uh since in boosky prm we having we are having the uh register agent as intermediate component where we not have 100 percent trust to that intermediate component we wanted to have the ca certs respond that response that is provided from the register towards the pledge in a signed format so that the that the pledge is aware that the c asserts were provided from the from the authorized registrar so that has been addressed in the draft and that basically relates to issue number 21. then in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "last ietf meeting 113 we had some discussion about the possibility to have proof of procession of the registrar's certificate of the private key corresponding to the registrar's certificate for the voucher itself so that is one reason that we switched uh that we are using the possibility to have multiple signatures on the the jws voucher that we are using and we are not only having the signature of the mother we are also having the signature of the registrar now and that provides us proof of procession uh that was missing so far so that means we now have a similar mechanism or we can apply a similar mechanism uh like the preliminary preliminary accept or provisional accept like we have it in the tls case for the standard prosky so that relates to the issues 32 and 49 and uh it was discussed already last time the the change that is now included is that we made it mandatory because we had some back and forth regarding how does the pledge signal that he wants that additional signature and what does he do when he doesn't doesn't get the the second signature and so we simplified the case here and stated that it is always mandatory to support those these second signature we also clarified that the registration agent itself may collect the pledge voucher request or the pledge enrollment request of both in one run or in different ones so that that wasn't clearly stated uh for now but yeah that has been clarified so then uh a further comment oh i forgot to mention the issues here uh further comment was related to the format of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "subject key identifier and specifically what we what we take from the subject key identifier if we take that just a 20 20 byte value or if we take it with the framing ace and information or not so we described it in a way to just take the s-kit by the 20 bytes or octets that are part of the certificate then one comment from esko was going into the direction to avoid the redefinition of the voucher request uh so what we did was we in the first place we did a copy of the voucher request from the rfc from the guruski rfc 8995 and instead of redefining it so what we what we did now is uh we took the definition from bruce key and basically augmented the voucher request to include the additional values that we need for uh bluesky prime so that would be the ancient science certificate and the agent signed data and things which are not defined in the in the original voucher so that simplifies the voucher definition at that place uh what was also requested was an explanation of the terminology endpoint as we use it in the document to make clear that endpoint is used in the in the context of a resource rather than a physical endpoint of the client so that was also included and then uh based on the discussion that we had we also removed the join proxy in the overview figure because we we don't really need the join proxy as the registrar agent is expected to be uh to be a helper application for the registrar and doesn't need to utilize the joint proxy here and between the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "pledge itself and the registrar agent there is no drawing proxy my classic question is that okay sure at the end okay okay next steps are based on the on the review comments we got from esco we have 14 open issues they are partly uh cleared so i just have to incorporate them into the graph essentially they will be addressed after this meeting all of them go into the direction of clarifying the handling response codes and endpoint handling what also needs to be updated here is security considerations that has seen some some further review and we we need to update that so as i stated in the in the presentation before the pog implementation has finished has been finished and interrupt testing with others is very welcome also i said a document shepard for the document is needed and what we as also thinks after addressing this remaining 40 northern issues we think that the draft is ready for working plus core okay let's thank you very much for the uh attention if there are any questions you said that michael has a question he's running to the mic hello i hope that's loud enough for the people um is in the room and um one of the things i i'm unclear about so it's a kind of a question for benoit um is whether or not we we're augmenting yang and we're using it and you were using it um for uh data at rest and we have this kind of thing where this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "document imports from this document and that document imports from this one and actually in the end we kind of actually want to have something that is just the union of every of all the extensions and it's not clear to me because i don't know enough whether we're really using yang in the right way this way for this and it would be kind of useful if we could somehow have a yang doctor review of the whole working group in some sense like are we actually doing it right or is there something that we should be doing differently before we push you know four or five documents to the isg that separately might look okay but as a group maybe they're wrong does that make sense to my request yeah it's a request to you or to someone else in the yang space about how are we really doing it right i just i don't feel confident that we're doing it right so that's what i wonder and this document is an example of where it makes sense in the document what we're doing but it might not make sense if you then consider it with three other documents that are also doing something similar and i don't know i don't feel confident that we're actually this is the absolute correct way to do it and and maybe to add because we are not aware of anything in the same fashion that we can use as prior evidence for data at rest yeah uh rob wilson cisco uh i i think if you just give the examples then would die to ben well to me we can probably say whether you do it right or not or it's the right thing so i need more context about what exactly you're doing um okay if that works i mean you have or if i can launch on the brisket design meetings is that the right good place to do it no yeah okay i would think so too sorry what what what you're saying in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "terms of trying to discuss this with some people from young doctors in one set up brewski design meeting or so yeah i'm happy to i mean i we can get some young doctors i think i'd probably have to make a judgment on it or and get more help if needs be um so i'm happy to go well the data at rest aspect is simply that we're using yang to model digital artifacts that may just lie on a usb stick right as opposed to just you know querying you know active information from a running router i yeah i don't see that that should be an issue in the sense we also but it's new we couldn't simply you know steal um you know from from from a lot of documents that do the same thing and that's why we're nervous so we have benoit's document i mean you can speak to of the um young file format uh instance data file format so we do have a document that's gone through recently to actually have yang data at rest and a document format for that i think that's quite right for this purpose necessarily because that has extra metadata stuff that you probably don't need but so that we are doing yang data arrest yeah but but uh i i would second uh michael's opinion i mean we had an early young doctor review of uh what is contained in the draft so far but i think especially giving the last changes where we essentially made the the young description dependent on the young description in bluesky it would be good to have some some kind of overall review of the young young application or young usage uh in the context of the different boothby graphs of ruski document okay i'm giving you the action item michael okay so i'll take it down as an action item"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "to schedule that meeting to discuss that strategy okay can you can you add the the name of that document from to the notes which you're referring to okay and i have the ai's at the end okay who's next uh next number four this should be me or no oh what happens here slow chair fast participants excellent all right do you mean do you need me to click on anything here um i would like to share the slides myself let's see if it works out yeah there is a green approve approve click approve yes uh now i see a selection of slides [Music] but can i share my local version no not just the the uploaded one other other might be possible but i don't remember i see okay then it doesn't i can also use the upload just have done some minor tweaks i just need to find yeah sorry i changed all the number it introduced numbering but it didn't take it over here seemingly so let's see from grasp alternative enrollment uh there we go yeah work out thanks yeah so i'm presenting the current status of ruski ae which stands for alternative enrollment protocols for brewski"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "as we agreed last time we changed the name or the abbreviation of this draft from essence and role to ae and so also changed the url of the repository which you can find here and um i've become the editor last time and stefan fries hendrick brockhouse and eliot there are the authors mainly and i'm basically the editor um just as a uh how to switch to the next one all right there we go just just a quick recap of what brewski ae is about it's a variant of bruce kl of vanilla brewski where the initial voucher exchange stays as it is um but then when it comes to the certificate enrollment um where usually est is used this has been plugged out and any other enrollment protocol can be plugged in for instance cmc or a cmp such that the things that in this dash dot box are changing can be done according to the specific protocol at hand for example whether to get extra certificates ca certificates whether maybe get some certificate attributes and then um do the of course do the actual certificate request and get a response or maybe some extra rounds could be needed in terms of polling or whatever the protocol um allows for and in the end we do the usual enrollment status from the pledge to the registrar so the middle part of the protocol is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "being generalized any questions or comments on this apparently not then let's see what has been changed um since last iatf um we have set up two versions um the first version of one um by the way the numbering had to be reset after when changing document name so we start again with version one um in this version one we did the renaming that already mentioned i also added the graphics that you just have seen which i also presented last time and to alice asked to to incorporate this also in the document itself which turned out to be quite a difficult thing to do giving the constraints um in the format of figures that are allowed for such documents but in the end i think at least got an black and white um version of them um of the uh of the graphics in there yeah i apologize for dragging you you folks into this it's it's great if if something went out of that i'm still very much annoyed about all the new hurdles that the xml v3 has has been putting on you know the the requirements for the documents hopefully that can be improved over time to make it easier to get the nice colorful pictures into rfc's as well sorry go on oh yeah this would be really nice if we can do this at least for later documents yeah apart from that did some editorial tweaks uh more or less to restructure some of the sections but not really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "content-wise changes and we also added some details of the lightweight cmp instance of risky ae which we just would suggest to call it risky uh cmp then about a month back we provided a further version of the draft where we clarified one architectural thing namely so far we had written that the registrar can act as a local registration authority or as a full registration authority or as uh and simply as an enrollment proxy and this proxy may have got misunderstood as such in a way that maybe the registrar has no control okay or no insight into what's going on um so we clarified this and stated that in fact the registrar is can delegate so towards the towards the pledge it's it's still um the the registration authorities from from the pledge view but it can delegate more or less parts or all of this registration authority tasks to some further back-end server so this is no actual change in to the contents but a clarification of the presentation of the contents and for the cmp instance of ruski ae we just added a reference uh to the um to another draft on co-op transport for cmp v2 and another reference"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "i'm getting some echo hopefully you don't get it as well another instance reference also two words constrained brewski because this could also be of interest to have for example a constrained version of a cmp um with the co-op transport uh and this can also combined with bruce ke okay if it runs down we've also done a poc implementation and this was well received also by colleagues of us who got uh the good impression that um this bruce kae um this would be ready for incorporation into their products are there any comments or questions on these topics here if not let's switch to my final slides on open points or potentially open points um the only thing where we're still waiting for um some enhancement or extension would be um the instantiation of um of the enrollment protocol to use estival for cmc rather than the normal simpler version of esd there we have been waiting for input of elliot but so far got didn't get it elliot apparently is not here so i cannot otherwise you could have asked him but it looks like a new job role that keeps him pretty busy but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "you can run into him on gather i think more so i will ask him again and if and when some further input from his site would be available and then we would have liked to already have an shepherd review from trolleys are you still up for doing that yeah let me let me see you know what what what the order is i was trying to put the uh my ai is on the bottom so it seems the brewski cloud maybe is is that higher priority in the list how do you folks want to have these things serialized oh we can take it offline right so just let me know what across the different documents how you how you feel i should serialize my time thanks yeah we would also appreciate further reviews from other wrecking group members and let me take this opportunity and asked is there anyone around who might be interested in doing so i would i would recommend to everybody just you know to to go through the list of you know active participants in the group and and figure out who seems like a good candidate and reach out individually in email you know these these broad questions uh you you can almost no reply from anybody who's busy right so but if you ask them individually and maybe you also you know offer your help with their document that that goes a much longer way thanks i'll do that yeah and the final question is whether the document is already ready for waking group last call so from our perspective it's pretty much"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "so except if anything pops up during some some um of the next review yeah that's that's it for my site are there maybe any other comments or questions yeah um for for the folks in the room uh maybe you know we we can we can always do do they ask who has read the document um said how was it your show of hands tools okay okay so we had 14 people participating six said they had read the document eight said they didn't have so that's already good into the notes thank you and one of those who have read would be nice didn't notice who it was so if you could let us know would be nice but otherwise we can also try to find other i'm not sure if that tool actually tells us to listen yeah yeah so if yeah let's see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "if anyone comes up to do a review formal review thank you okay um they're not more questions again right in terms of in terms of the reviews if i haven't checked the latest version of the document if you've been trying who if you've been tracking in the changelog who has provided feedback and you know read the document um if if that's in there that that would be the first thing i you know we chairs and uh would be looking into to judge how close it is to to working group last call i will add this information okay then i think we're up for uh kyung chow for the enema distribution the the grasp distribution yes exactly so how uh how could i show my screen or or you need to click on the uh share slides share slice share pre pre-loaded slides it's always there yeah okay yes and then i approve that yeah and then i click the number four or slice number four yes oops sure is it showing up already yep yeah okay okay great great so hello everybody uh good afternoon good morning good evening so i'm now in germany so it's already uh not late night but it's almost late okay so since we didn't got a chance for the last meeting you know because of internal let's say approval issue so we didn't get a goal to attend this meeting so we could not register itf 130 so but this time we got a goal so we can come here and then do some updates so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "this slide is about the version five for the grass grass distribution okay next page uh this is a short reminder the main content of the draft is about how to re-utilize the let's say the grasp protocol api with a very limited extension so that we can have enhanced uh information distribution module for the whole ani so this is our main target next page so here's some short that's a short briefing since uh 112 130. so we updated from version two to four the main change here is that we took the first also and we moved zora and then brands name to the acknowledgement and we've focused on polishing the use cases and requirements according to the the comments from the main list but this time we went into more details you know according to the comments provided by our shepherd michael so we go one by one from his review comment so we made some updates from version four to version five okay so here's our some comments that we have addressed in this version so the first one is that um the review comments says that the use case section is okay but it seems that automotive example uh seems uh not to have the real world demand at this point in general we can we we we actually agree on these comments but uh and and we are we're and we are thinking that this part could let's say we would like to keep this kind of you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "know use case because we at at some point maybe um let's say the the end point with mobility could be part of the sap although although it's not uh let's take considered with the acp setting yet but we think this could be our nice futuristic use case if the mobility kind of let's say featured can be included or can be part of the the whole ami but we can discuss of course um so but we add some clarifications and putting down its gap to the existing scope of the ni that's in this version and another comment about the the use case part is that it pointed out um whatever the c2p management functions could be let's say performed with an ali but but actually right now cpub does not use the grasp protocol of course and you use http 2.0 and json you know for this use um but this is a kind of like our whole motivation you know behind that because we think there are huge potential uh and even internally when we are discussing let's say in huawei we also promote less animals work because we think there are huge potential where animals work let's say concept protocols and architecture and so on could play play a very important role in 3gb network let's say it's not that easy that we fully replace as everything in http with anima but i think it's a very good good good idea to say that okay how about the 3d network architecture even part of that could be let's say dumb but animals work let's say protocol even architecture that that could be very"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "nice so this is why we we keep this http use case in our draft okay and the the last one is the last one is that we actually mentioned the in-network computing capability let's say features uh but the by the common sense that there is um no reference so we added one reference for that uh if let's say if needed we can add it more okay so let's move on do you take comments here in the middle sorry are you asking me is it okay to provide comments in the middle uh and not only at the end because of course of course of course of course of course of course yes so so so for the first point um i think it may be useful to remember that originally when we were doing enema um the idea was to replace the whole control plane um yes with an autonomically built one and we just you know degenerated so to speak to an additional acp and uh that concept certainly is most useful when you want to get the a into existing equipment service provider routers i think in the case of these these futuristic er styles we may get it back to the original vision of anima where the autonomically formed secure um routing infrastructure would be you know the only network that you have and actually would be then a layer three equivalent to what most of these iot networks already have which is you know each technology has its own um layer two you know uh security mechanism and and that also you know creates a lot of unnecessary islands so i think you know um thingy is necessary if uh if i may be able to help in improving that writing so because i think this this to me shows a lot more closer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "to what the reality in the future could be give or take the market forces and now i'm just uh ranting here because my network connection seems to drop me off and i'm happy that you folks can't even hear me unstable connection to the server trying to reconnect i can't hear you oh i can hear you clearly it's okay yeah yeah okay now you can hear you can see the slides again okay yeah that was the main point and uh that i wanted to make thank you okay okay then i will continue so this is uh really about some replies uh to the comments about the use case you know from the shepherd but of course there are you know many comments we didn't address so far uh but we will handle that as a later and then it comes to a very encouraging comment that the the shepherds think the data backup could be a very interesting could be a very interesting functions for ai and scpo of course we also agree uh so then um but it also pointed out that the use case um aside from the data backup uh it does not seem actually to be relevant to to the ami and acp so then we think later on we should look into more details about the the data backup use case and see if we should keep this use case and then following this comment the there is one comment about saying that we should mate let's say this document more protocol-oriented description and it it refers to um this mainly discussion but we we actually checked that this million is discussion but the the latter request actually suggests that the opposite so less product oriented description so here there's a little bit confusion uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "probably we can also let's check it out later whether or not we should make it more let's say product oriented or less work oriented okay so yes um [Music] then it goes to then the order comments for section 2 are done here and then it goes to section 3. first of words pointed out and let's say the pops and sub you know features for the information distribution could be a be let's say less capable for when the network size getting larger and denser so probably uh here um and we we should refer more works so we actually added some representative reference uh here uh in our number five version and we also did a minor change you know about this rfc so the common set it should be let's say normative you know reference okay so this is the major change we made from two to four and four to five um then there are some problems also pointed out um let's say it says that the government doesn't provide a reasonable security consideration so yes of course uh we didn't reach that far yet so we are asking what are what or what we should consider let's say the security aspect so this is the first issue and the second issue is is is about the writing i think so we we of course lack of the experience of how to write a proper less itf draft so we in most of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "cases we use can so we didn't quite differentiate in which scenario we should use should or must or let's say is there any certain rule that we should follow this kind of you know word should and must so probably we we should also check it out okay so of course there are many other problems that we didn't touch uh from the comments and opinions provided by surfer but we will also handle that in the next version uh then the future works uh you know as i said we should we will let's say continue but i would also take this opportunity to to to ask let's say more attentions and maybe more group reviews so that we can really speed up the process of the of this document of course we can keep revising the as the document but it seems endless we certainly need very concrete action items or deadlines maybe in this year by the end of this year so that we can go for the last core yes yeah this is from my side right so thank you so coming from my side if you go to the the the last slide before this yeah here right so i i think um you know um an explicit implementable example of how to apply these mechanisms would certainly be helpful right okay um it could be started just an appendix but really just the explicit grasp methods right who is talking with whom why are they doing it and how then are explicit you know grasp objectives uh exchanged how right um whether you implement that actually in any prototype code maybe on on top of brian's grasp implementation or so on that would of course be icing on the cake but you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "know the whole point is you know existence proof of an implementable um adaptation of the method in this document right okay because otherwise it's it's it's always you know hard to figure out well i can guess i could apply this way but you know once i see yes yes i agree yes you're right and you would want to start specifying this out in in text first before you um try to implement it and you know maybe you know the the people concerned here about the the lack of linkage to reality would already be happy just to see that written down but i think it's it's certainly the best starting point to resolve this issue okay okay i understand i actually have a question about this uh following up your comment so do you think that we should uh really let's say consider a very specific use case or scenario let's say does it is it necessary to really have a very concrete example to really say that okay this is the entity in which uh let's say in which application in which scenario in which kind of network or something like this or just kind of very generalized the functionality you know implementation or something like this so to to what kind of extent or scope that do we really have to consider is proof of concept michael richardson at the mic yeah thank you thank you yeah hello um yeah um yeah you need to tell us i don't see any point in the document unless it actually describes something that someone can implement right so um it's nice to wish for 3gpp to take on your stuff um we also wish yes but um mean unless they're actually doing it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "um maybe you want to implement it in your 3gpp equipment um or 5g equipment then great describe it how it works okay even if that means the document is describing your implementation and not necessarily a standard and it has to become informational okay but that's still really useful um but a general document about you could do stuff i don't i don't see the point i don't even see the point in reviewing it further so i mean really i mean if if you're trying to describe something then please describe it in real concrete details with you know that someone can actually implement ideally that you've actually implemented so um that's what i'm encouraging right yeah maybe maybe to help some um productive detail on that right so i think when you're referring to um specific standard bodies and how they could do things when it seems to be clear that they're already on a different track that's that's that's always a bad reference right so it's you know try to to find a reference i mean the the benefit on how to do it the the exact example um that that describe the detail of um you know the grass method everything necessary to implement that that's one part the applicability to to a particular use case scenario for that that should just be you know as specific as possible but not you know in contradiction to what we know some particular part in the industry has chosen right so this this is like you know okay yeah okay you can't come up with so let's say i'm sure that that that that can can be overcome right okay okay i understand so uh then it means that in my understanding if i'm correct uh we can let's say just stop at the the levels saying that this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:03",
    "text": "is the node and this the node this node has implements the functionality that we propose in the document then it's sufficient we don't have to say that what node it is and let's say it's a very specific node for example it's as a network node running in 5g network or usb network or it's a let's say vehicle or it's an iot device or something like this or the most concrete write down of um an example and and and and we'll basically start discussing it from there right to to to refine it to a point that that we're satisfied with it okay okay yes i mean look at some of the prior prior documents i think it's uh rfc 899 who one or two there is one from shang young and others for um you know example applicability of grasp um so that that went one step further in the level of details okay okay yeah yeah come on and we will do that yes hello shane you have some comment yes we can hear you oh yeah uh my recommendation for this question would be first we can spend a little bit text to describe a use case as started as teres suggested then we should focus on a standardized scenario which is generalized if there's something you know too specific to certain use case we can have the appendix"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "that would make this document focus enough but also have enough uh use case information for the audience right okay okay if we will consider that yes probably we say let's hope if we have enough resources maybe in the next version let's at the end of the year we can let's provide something on the table regarding the implementation or just functional descriptions or concrete examples yes yeah we will do that okay so is there any other comments from other audience now um i think we can happily take this this this to the list and uh you know please please start on uh on the steps that uh yeah we gave you here and if you have any more questions let's let's do that actively on the list okay thank you okay uh update on constraint brewski and join proxy and that would be mr richardson no i don't think network service auto deployment no that was this right yep oh there was grass reciprocation oh i'm sorry yeah it is my time yes thank you i'm sorry i'm just confused the coffee isn't strong enough here that's my best excuse please go ahead oh okay she's out how you stop you share i want to share my screen okay i stopped"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "i stopped okay oh okay hi iran have you seen my three yes uh yeah yeah yes i i i can share the pre-loaded slides for the participants on remote it takes less bandwidth and and it's larger on the screen but if this is the best you can do that's fine as well oh okay okay this is okay okay let's start uh hello i remove the screen and you can and can try to to share pre-loaded slide give it a try oh sorry sorry sorry sorry oh oh okay sorry no you're okay let's let's let's roll with it you're trying to you're asking for the screen again yeah yes i asked okay now it's okay now now it's the same as in before but it's fine go ahead okay okay okay like let's start okay okay let's start i'm using and this slope is about the draft auto deployment mechanism for resource-based network surveys and at first uh i will have a short review about the draft and this strategy we want to discuss the question about how to establish a set of autonomic negotiation mechanism to achieve the negotiation and the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "distribution of the natural resource in the domain network between the surveys and the network and the the key point of our goal is establish autonomic negotiation mechanism and the this is a major change from the ietf one month three seasons and uh i also received some comments from the brian and in this meeting i want to explain my thoughts about this comment and i want to talk about some major changes from the itfu biomass resistance so first thing is that i add some picture in the session for to uh to discuss the process of the resource negotiation i think this is uh important things and will make our workforce to understand and i will introduce this in the next page and the second is that i add a grasp objective example use case in the section 6 6 1 and i talked about this use case as a last meeting and i updated in it into this new version the third is that i this has some compassion with other technology and brian suggests that we should discuss more about the night and i plan to do this in the next step uh the last thing is that i created some text error okay this page is about auto deployment process and in this auto deployment process we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "talked about how the two different kinds of asa can communicate with each other and how to uh this to uh how it translates to asia negotiations resource and in this process we can warehouse a three stage the discovery stage under the negotiation stage and the after negotiation what is uh to assad should do and uh in this process we will add in this new version underway at the new staff about the sacred synchronization to other asa and we added this in the after negotiation uh after negotiations are two different kind of asean nato a negotiation with salt and so providing resource management asa removes accessible results from its resource poor and after that we will synchronization to other as a whole the negotiation results and exercises uh request resource manager asa can tell us so why such as uh resource resource nation is ready under the service time uses resource center package and this is about the auto deployment process and the in this page we want to talk about some uh uncomfortable with other technologies uh this draft we think is not a resource resurination portal but a mechanism to enable the survives under the network to nato a negotiation how much"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "resource the networks can provide for the surveys so and this draft is different from other particles is that it can it can support the multi-round negotiation mechanism and supports multiple type of resource negotiation and the and as for 39 we seemed that this mechanism supports a negotiation of the resource uh for the denied surveys and the this draft of racing can be considered as a distribution solution of the denied resource damage negotiation and the about the society consideration and the in this new washing we say that this draft doesn't want to introduction the action security problems for anima and the uh wasting uh some eyes and i think there's a discussion about some society matter is out of this draft scrub and i think some some security problem is a common problem for example brian asked me some some question about multiple domain network and this icing and as i've seen 9 2 2 2 and it says that this will be a possible weight part and i think is a necessary to establish some rule to retrace the about some about this the quality consider province"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:03",
    "text": "and i think we need a separate draft to this passage and this is not our drafts i want to discuss and for the next step and we want to uh we plan to do the following things the first thing is that we want to update the autonomic resource management objectives uh with i think that there are some un non-standard writing of the new washing drafts and it caused some misunderstanding so stands for brian's half and he gave me some related paper and i will represent carefully and update in the next version uh and the next uh next question is about two ways we should consider more about uh is practice scenarios uh for example um if if the resource state change in the network and the what we should do something to ensure the right resource and maybe we should talk about this more detailedly and i think i should add an example in section 6 to discussions this question and that's all and welcome to through my comments and the contribution thank you thanks um let me just back to the notes here i was wondering um have have you done"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "any prototype implementation for example also on top of brian's grasp implementation uh did you hear me okay i think we might have lost some connection oh okay i think we've it's strange right huh what she was talking the whole time is she did you mute yourself one second i mean see i don't think i need to unmute her i think she can talk so you if you if you can hear us please get back to the microphone so that we can discuss this further for for any questions or so otherwise we'll just move on to the next slot first but we can return to this uh if you if if you get back to being able to talk"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "alright which first brings us to mr richardson i hope update on constraint brewski which seems to be primarily the uh join proxy can you pull the slides out oh no it's me okay yeah you have to do it yeah yeah yeah yeah watching materials uh where is it in a second not share screen the microphone should be in front of the app right yeah well ask me so i'm having to constrain join proxy changes is that the one i hope like a nightclub singer here yeah you know there we go oh look okay so this is a i'm michael richardson um this is an update on constrain join proxy which was in wasn't working group has been through working last call has gone to visit rob has come back and it's also an update on the constrained voucher document um and you'll understand where next slide please so um big thing that we did is that we moved a lot of the discovery text that was in or the discovery protocol definition that was in uh constrained joint proxy we moved it into constrained voucher and then we said so we said this is how you do it for the state full way traditionally and then we said this is how you do it for the case that it's stateless so um if you are looking are a red are a joint proxy and you're looking for a registrar um then the registrar and grasp speak should announce itself with an ip proto udp and a 5684 or other arbitrary port on which it's going to run co-op and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "it should announce it with an objective of brewski jp which in brewski it's just an empty string we should have put something in there but we didn't so then if you in fact support um other protocols um for instance the stateless protocol then we say in joint proxy you should and this is the bottom of the screen in blue um you should announce it with brucey rjp as your target and then a different port number pardon me do you see your screen you're not seeing a screen not seeing anything shared yeah um can we get some more remote participants are you getting video uh can't understand them actually okay reconnect next slide please yep um okay so if you in fact are a pledge and you're looking for a joint proxy um then and if you want to find one that does uh co-op constrained uh voucher join then you would see that by an announcement that says it's a udp and we put in the string there dtls um and you'd see a port number that's an arbitrary port number despite the fact that i can't spell properly it's a not an abbottary but an arbitrary port number and the important part is that in the join proxy in the constrain point proxy there's no change because from the pledge point of view it doesn't matter whether the joint proxy is is uh doing a stateful um uh join where it stores its state in memory or whether it's doing a stateless join where essentially it stores its state in the network next slide different topic oh wait are there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "questions about that topic um no i think this this is finally the the question is how can we be as nice as we are in grasp with this uh with the other discovery methods right um yeah so so the document goes through it and mdns but it's less i guess it's less visually interesting so i didn't put it in the slide please look at the diff um it's basically just you look for a particular name brewski dot jp or brewski dot rjp and there's not any difference it's you know it's a target you look for so it's less beautiful if it's not in grasp i think i think my major um unresolved the the unresolved thing i think we have is with um uh core right yeah co-op is coming okay co-op is coming in it's at the end of the thing because it's the the so we improved the document a little bit one of the things we did is we put an extra level in the in the mesh so it's clear that it's a multi-hop and that not every device is directly connected to the registrar uh i keep getting a hiccup when i look at the diagram because i want to put the pledge on the left and the registrar on the right but the other authors liked it this way so whatever um the important thing is that the last hop is probably clear uh and because it's not the the device is not yet part of the network next slide please oh we made it nicer looking with the a the conversion to svg okay so we had in the document that a joined proxy may implement both with no mandatory to implement for the joint proxy um it now says the joint proxy must must implement both i don't know exactly how that happened um it's not what i would have written um i i believe it happened as a kind of frustrated response to reviewers comments about not quite understanding what's going on um so i made this table"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "and i'm sorry it doesn't quite fit on the the slide um so what does it amount to um i think that all registrars have to support stateful onboarding for the simple reason that um if you're going to make a co-op dtls connection it is a stateful activity and you have to a registrar has to support state for that there's no other way about it so the registrar's always going to support that always going to announce it and that's a a simple first step that's mandatory a joint proxy that implemented a stateful onboarding process that is it uses ram to keep track of what's going on uh would see that announcement and would say of course i can operate in that way and would go um if a registrar does support the stateless method that's in this jpy thing then it would announce it and the joint proxy that supported it might prefer to do that rather than the stateful one if it prefers to use uh to prefers to use network to store the state rather than um ram and that's not necessarily a pr uh all every device there in particular if you're not battery operated but you do have uh and you have lots of ram then and your network's very poor then stateful might be a better choice you know it's it depends i would rather not say that either are mandatory um i would like to tell people if you buy a registrar and it doesn't support stateless and you buy join proxies that don't uh sorry that a registrar that does not um do stateless yes and you buy joint proxies that only do stateless then it's not going to work so i don't i would say that it's not an interoperability failure that is a procurement failure in my opinion the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "the interoperability failure would be is if the registrar did support stateless and the joint proxies did support stateless but they failed to negotiate that in in in real life right i mean it similarly if i buy a if i buy a cisco router with uh short haul optics and i buy a juniper router with only copper connections it also doesn't interoperate despite the fact that everyone else has got a thing you've got the wrong plugs so this i think is a wrong plug situation but i would love to have more uh comments on the list i don't i just don't think that we really want to tell every join proxy entity that you must implement both or that you must implement one or you must build the other because i really think it depends upon what what your target environment is what we should have is we should have whatever you have implemented it should automatically configure and find the thing that works can i add to your myrand rant so which is about security um we have been i think in pretty much every itf spec pretty bad about defining really actionable um state overload protection so it from the security perspective the state list is so much easier right we don't have to specify anything because there is really no problem of doing the security and state overload control on the registrar it's a big box it can easily get software updates but uh on the proxies uh that's that's a lot harder if we do stateful on the box uh if you if if the working group and you are telling me that we should make stateless mandatory to implement then i actually don't have a problem with that okay i'm just bringing just the security thing to do to the table as one that will typically only run into in the end of the process in isg and put it out for consideration i don't want to make any you know judgment calls right now so so so i would agree with you that would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "go with it there there there are some some there are some there are different attacks in that case and i i'm happy to to go through them and put it in the security considerations um but i think um at least the authors we need some more clear guidance as to what to do here um i would prefer to leave it open but i'm i'll go with whatever anyone wants you're going to speak from the mic oh you're going to you're going to fix something else okay this is the problem when you have your ad to your id support robots wilson cisco so i'm not sure i feel that strongly on this i mean obviously raised a comment during my review i think it was simply the the observation that if there's a sort of minimum common denominator that all these things support that obviously makes interrupt easier that you know that you've if somebody doesn't know exactly what they're doing i know this is probably not plausible in this deployment scenario if they get one of these and one of those they're going to at least talk something rather absolutely take so that's all it's from i can understand that in the different scenarios maybe one's a lot more optimal than the other and hence it's hard to say always do stateless always do stay full i would see like they also have to agree on the radio right you can't you can't interrupt your 15-4 in a 802-11 right and and so you know at that level you might say all the 15.4 devices ought to support stateless well that's awesome okay yes right okay and it and and it's perfectly fine if the the wi-fi ones just don't because you know what the network's so big who cares on the other hand the network's so big it's easy to fit all the state in it right there's no there's no issue about extra extra big you know more packets because you can easily fit in 1500 bytes the whole state so you know i think anything where you can sort of constrain down the minimum"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "options i think that personally it feels to me that improves interoperability yes i i agree so you know i mean mandatory to implement does not mean mandatory to use but then you have the question of okay so i if i implement both which one do i prefer and you have different devices preferring different things then you get weirdness right where you know on this side of the room you can you you get really efficient onboarding on that side of the room you get a different joint proxy and you know something works differently right so um so that's why i'm like i don't know right but um i guess i'm happy to write anything okay um if the implementation experience for example shows that the stateless isn't even significantly more difficult to implement then we know it has the security benefits so those two pieces together might be you know to make that the mti sure let's let's write that down then but i mean that's that's basically the implementation judgment call right because i mean i was i was looking at from the simple i'm writing an application on top of a uh tcp socket right so the the stateless stuff was difficult in the non-constraint case now in the constraint case might be turning opposite with you know dtls and everything so if you if you can make the judgment call that the um that the stateless approach is equivalent or even better in terms of implementation and we have the security benefits those two together but okay i i'm okay i'm okay with that um uh i'm okay with that um it's a it's an additional piece on the registrar that we're mandating must exist and um but you know i'm actually okay to say that to say it that way i prefer the stateless way myself okay um because i i i really think that it's much better to do that for the the low power devices uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:02",
    "text": "for that they don't need ram particularly um for that and they can just you know just go and let someone else take care of the general service attack and he's flying isn't the registrar like a bigger box anyway so there's a bigger box so in the home it might be the bigger home router yeah okay but in an enterprise it's probably in a cabinet in a one you case or a vm yeah right but are those two cases i wouldn't thought we had to support both of these makes sense yeah it's not that much better but whereas the joint proxy you know it literally may be light bulb yeah right light bulbs have power so they could just join proxies right at least when they're switched on they have power but you won't get a security software upgrade on them that's true those guys are actually i think that's not among the best but anyway let's go on yeah okay sorry about next slide next slide okay so um we uh throughout our old jpy message um this is a some ways a very big change at this late stage um but all the people implementing were are basically authors at this point so they're all very happy to do this um basically we said it's none of your business what we put in the jpy message um and uh it's just some context um and uh in the document we suggest what you should put in it and that it's less than 16 bytes and you can aes cbc encrypt it and that authenticates it nicely um and you know you can change the keys at your whim okay with some caveats about how to do this it also makes it much much much closer to how it works uh with rfc 90 32 or 31. it's one of those two uh which is the six dish uh minimal security"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "onboarding that uses the co-app extended token in almost exactly the same way and you could and it has exactly the same problem and the same things and that's what we did so you could actually use the same code if you were implementing both on the same machine um so that's uh really it this is i the working group really needs to look at this because this is a change in the wire you know bits on the wire change why are on the bits change and so please read this and object now next next uh or a proof or proof yeah um okay this is the part where we get kind of icky um so when we're doing co-op discovery um if you were just looking for an an est uh or co-app in uh rfc 80 9148 i think it is uh recently published um you know you would do something on the left in the green okay um in particular you would do a multi-cast you know request tell me all the est servers and you get this response back that says oh they're here and they have this different content types and you can do these different things i actually think that's wrong because i think that it actually should have a co-app s at the front and i don't think you could multicast co-op discovery over dtls um but um anyway so on the right we've done the same thing in this case there happens to be a stateless registrar available and so he responds and it turns out according to the link formatting rules as far as we understand them going back to some 3000 um rfc 3000-ish rfc for some details about what the authority is if you want to stick a port number in you have to put the ip address and if it's a v6 address you have to put parenthesis or square brackets around it okay so that's the first one so 7434"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "that's the stateless port number what's the scheme well we wrote coap as it's not coap s it's this thing of coap over dtls and then this gpy header and then udp and then ipv6 so you can't go naively show up and start speaking co-app to it it won't work you have to have the jpy header so what are the solutions i don't think that's the next slide but i was going to make it the next slide see what the next slide is you want to see the next slide yeah yeah oh yeah there we go this is the option so the first first option is what's the issue i don't see an issue no that's that's it right the second one is we can create some new scheme jpy and we wondered what the overhead of doing that is how many how many reviews and external experts do we need to make that happen and we started looking through a list of uh schemes and we thought well maybe it's not as hard as we think because there's like all sorts of garbage in there um so you know what if someone says that's the right way then i guess we could go that way uh we could abuse some other scheme i guess uh but which one i don't know um uh it would be abuse um we could just not use co-op discovery for this case okay um or some other idea your other brilliant idea so this is where i'm really really would like a lot of discussion and i know no carsten has an opinion one concern of myself i just couldn't find you know good recipes on how to do this in in the rfcs right so well nobody's done exactly this before so maybe i i don't i don't know when is actually the the internet isn't working um so when when is actually the co-op working group right if they have five minutes time maybe we can even bring it up there right take it to the original well we we have we have the we have the the carson is is the uh expert reviewer for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:02",
    "text": "um um some part of this um and uh you know so to a certain extent if he thinks it's okay then it's okay um and it's the expert reviewer for the the name of the ski of the of the thing we're looking up um but you know i said there's like uh there's other ways there's other ways through this process um and as i said one of the issues is maybe there is no issue ultimately we're doing co-op s it's just we have a shim layer in front of it and you have to know about this and it's not said anywhere so that's one answer opinions from the internet and from the room please they would not understand the question i think was the other other question i should ask we'll go back to the previous line uh yeah please rob go ahead um so rob my instinct is to try and create new scheme here because i i don't think it's that hard to do so that would be my my first step to try would be because it feels like that's the right thing to do and that's well defined what this behavior is i think pretending it's not an issue is a bit icky because it's not going to work if you you know had a server that wasn't expecting this it's just going to not talk so we're not we're not really ever going to use this mechanism anywhere else i don't think right um maybe someone else has another stateless co-op ish thing that they need to do with dtls but i can't imagine what it is but it could come along but that's my concern is this is a single-use scheme can i just say from the process perspective i would like to understand first what you know somebody who best reads our rfc would figure out is the recommended way from the rfcs i couldn't do that i couldn't figure out what the recommended way is if that recommended way it turns out to be you know crappy lot of overhead and we can come up with an okay way that that's just a fallback right but how do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "we figure out what the recommended way is i don't i don't get your question the the encoding right whether you know using a particular scheme right um having for this thing the port number all the all these things what is the recommended way to encode our information we're making it up as we go we're reading the rfcs we think but we feel you know unsafe about it so is the expert reviewer the one that should give us the guidance is the working group for that wrote the rfcs uh the one that should give us the guidance that's that's my process question i think i'll ask ask i don't know which ads it goes to art area probably yeah probably right so i mean let's let's just figure out in the first place what the recommended way is to encode the information that we need to carry and then go from there if if there if we can walk through the process doing the recommended way then let's do that otherwise find the work around kirsten yeah i'm having a hard time understanding the problem here um so the the thing is that between these angle brackets you have to have a link and um there are many ways to build a link um but in the end it needs to be a link and if you have a special kind of plumbing uh that you are using um a long time ago we had the discussion about rfc 8232 32 or 83 23 um whether uh the the best way would be to to essentially do the http thing and and completely ignore the plumbing or actually do schemes that are plumbing specific and we decided to go for plumbing specific schemes with the the intention to at some point invent something that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "that makes life easier for us now that was five years ago and we this invention hasn't happened yet um so i think right now the state of the art is that you come up with a scheme um describe what it does and and put it there okay thank you and i i got drawn into this because i'm i'm supposed to give a um destiny an expert opinion on the rt uh part which i think that there is no no discussion about the rt part that that's fine um but the the example with which it's introduced that that doesn't work right now and that kind of taints the the irt registration that we definitely want to go forward with as quickly as possible okay so so we're going to go find the scheme figure out how to register register that and what's involved and get back to the working group in a couple of weeks i think there'll be vacations in the way but we'll get back to the working group in a couple weeks and i hope we can do that quickly any other comments because i'd like to go on to another document just 30 minutes quickly um from a systematics point of view the place that defines jpy should also be the place that defines the scheme yes so we should put it in our document yes yes i agree with you completely it just needs to be there they need to know that they need to put this there okay i'm trying to take that down thing sir carson that there was a lot more that we got to then on the on the mail exchanges what's the last is that the last there might be one more slide uh just questions oh that one no we couldn't live without that yes okay and i think formally it's coming back to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "the working group rob for a second working group last call right and given how we're moving you know a lot of text around from from the um voucher i think it doesn't make sense to try to progress any of these documents individually right because they're so much tied together so we should kind of try to run them in parallel right okay i was just going to quickly i posted into the chat the answer got back from ayanna so i put a question to i put a question into um the ice g and i and i on his honor that as well so and they gave the answer so it's in the chat effect the thing is he don't think it's that hard his expert review needs to be discussed in the mailing list but don't i don't think it's that arduous i think we try to accelerate the the voucher stuff and i i'm just fearful that the stuff then goes down a pro process where you know we're still working on the proxy and we would still like to do changes over in the voucher because of it so let's try to keep them parallel that makes sense too okay so you want to pull up the other yeah other um this is a completely different document okay yeah you can have all my time so i may not just i think i'm the last am i not no i i i still wanted to promote my you know grasp dns stuff but we can skip that okay i'm sorry that's always trying to rush because i knew i didn't no no i i i'm saying it's it's fine i'm just uh which one is it now proxy eep to connect now yeah eap all right the word eap in it eip to connect okay for onboarding let's take that one then okay so um there's a dot this is a document but basically about how do we manage to run brewski with wi-fi um so there were efforts in the emu area to do uh brewski teep um so one of the problems is that teep is not really deployed out there it's not really out there doing brewski t might be neat but doesn't really get anywhere anywhere"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:01",
    "text": "anybody anywhere so al and i wrote this document about how to do it next slide please so basically what we do is you do an eap tls and you use a network identifier of onboarding at eap.rpa and uh you uh don't verify the server and uh you get put on a network where you're probably very lonely and you might not even get dhcp v4 and that's okay because brewski doesn't need that um but you're encrypted um and you wind up in a in a captive portal of some kind um you might get all these other you know v4 things and have a captive portal and you might be able to you know download windows updates and a lot of enterprises have that network already okay it's it's it's what happens to you if you fail the i'm running the latest um virus scanner stuff and um that's all we need we just need you to be on the right network so that we can then run grasp find out where the join proxy is and do the rest okay that's really it okay the argument against this kind of thing has always been that ssids are expensive and we can't just set up our own especially in enterprises we can't just set up our own for onboarding and the realization was that we already have it it's a captive portal network and the enterprises already have it it's it's not a clear text network which is what i'd originally imagined um and um you do it this way and it's we don't have any definition that says how do you do eep tls without client authentication and so that's basically what we're going to do it's a missing it's a missing slot we can fit this into this slot and we think it works uh next slide please it's really very simple"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:01",
    "text": "um as i said there's the question of do you authenticate in eap the server and brewski would say no it's provisional provisional you'll do it later on the other hand if it comes arrives at a device that has a ca trust store and it can authenticate it it could authenticate it that would be fine there's an additional piece of work um which is how do i know which network to join there could be many of them and in some sense that is an 80211u problem and i'm not even sure we can do that work in the ietf but we do have a suggested solution for that um for that uh this work probably probably next slide this work probably belongs um in emu but i don't think it's worth taking it to mu unless this working group has a clear notion that this is the direction we want to go okay at which point it becomes we can argue over who gets the document um and that's about it there's several other entities doing something very specific very similar in different ways um and that captive portal network could be used for all sorts of things right it can be used as a captive portal literally okay where you actually go to a web website and actually you know put in your hotel room number and last name and uh get access to the internet if it's your laptop so that that would be reusable but on your you know you can imagine even in this hotel you could do that and your iot device could onboard you know whatever your pacemaker or something that you have you have alan you want to say something yeah um one of the other pushes for implementing this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "is um things like keep as you say people are pushing all kinds of stuff into e because it's just easier right so for anyone who's read rfc 7170 which defines cheap there's a whole pkcs7 certificate provisioning thing there and as an implementer i'm sort of upset about just shove everything in to eat um and what we probably should have done 10 years ago when this was originally published is just get people onto a network um so i've been talking about this this general concept in emu and other places for a while there's some positive support for it and some pushback but i think from a layering point of view we have no business doing anything in eep other than authentication and that's where this is going it just makes things easier if everything is ip for anything past the initial authentication and to be clear once you're on board and you get a certificate and a credential you come back and do eap tls again and get on the real network okay um uh for that um but when you're doing it and you know we can have 10 different onboarding mechanisms that and if they run over ip or panna or a whole bunch of other things whatever it is you want to do well it's just running over you've got you're getting an equivalent of a wired an untrusted wire and i think that's really valuable because i think it just brings us back as alan just said it brings us right back into we're running ip not this thing that fragments poorly over uh you know uh uh wireless frames and has no you know has no other controls or visibility or debug ability or that kind of stuff so sorry you lost me somewhere before slide one so there is a well-known ssid"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:02",
    "text": "for a captive portal that no no no what there is is there is a way for the the um access point to announce the list of realms that it supports okay okay and so the new realm that it's going to support is eap dot arpa and it can already do that that's already in the spec in 802 uh 11u okay okay so you add eap dot arpa to the list of things that this particular channel supports and the client says aha i found one that i can onboard on it uses the user id onboarding at eep arpa and continues alan did i get that right uh yes so this is what one thing we're doing here is defining what 5216 missed 5216 allowed for unauthenticated eeptls but offers nothing further so all these stos did magical things themselves um so we just defined something here which should be much much simpler okay so we're latching on to that 5216 to create a new announcement using for example a pre-existing ssid which is different but which will be learned through this mechanism yep okay and then from there on we just try to use standard brewski constraint brewski exactly yeah okay or or something else that you know someone invents next year how difficult is it to to build a working proof of concept from that is is this i think al and i might have something by the next day yeah oh would be cool yeah okay yeah it's it's on the back the room might even see it it's pretty pretty simple to do it's just certificates on the server side maybe maybe not and updating client-side behavior to treat eep. as special"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:02",
    "text": "okay so discussion on the list please yep all right sounds cool thank you very much okay i'm going to skip my marketing material for uh the grasp dns stuff and take it to the list and i think we've reached another two full hours again thank you very much everybody and yeah hopefully see you all in london and this meeting is officially closed thank you all hopefully see you in london bye-bye yeah you know what the problem is i'm using the simple thing which is just two wires and actually for this hum i would need three wires then it actually is without hum but you know then i don't have the uk cable any cable the us cable because i have all three of them they're way too big yeah but i mean it's it's i think it's always very very nice just the cable for the continent right now yes it already"
  }
]
