[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:27",
    "text": "some little room I\u0027m glad I\u0027m sitting down there but that doesn\u0027t work no so maybe we should still because [Music] [Music] Thanks fine me deco people I think the last session of Tuesday this is DNS op we have two minutes Arcanum right always ahead oh no it\u0027s late you slackers so we are three minutes late um welcome to DNS op the last meeting for Tuesday I am Tim that\u0027s Ben oh that\u0027s Susan down at the other end Warren\u0027s over there he\u0027s our area director Paul\u0027s doing minutes hi Paul poor Dan York didn\u0027t make it so Tim where is Tim I don\u0027t see Tim the other okay I need my glasses there we go Thanks he\u0027s gonna be doing Jabba scribe so the note well please note it details etc etc etc you know what\u0027s going on there so this is session one but there\u0027s blue sheets going around so please fill them in the rule will be smaller next time which right now doesn\u0027t look too bad so let\u0027s kind of looks kind of sad "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:29",
    "text": "and empty it\u0027s our agenda today it\u0027s an hour and a half I think um mostly updates on some old work the hackathon updates and some current working group business there\u0027s only like three or four different talks since our last meeting we believe it\u0027s been kind of sad guess we haven\u0027t had a great fall capture format finally got done obsolete vlv is in the end of the queue I tell you for moving something historic that\u0027s a lot of work you know I what did I actually spend way too much energy on that so when they say the output of the IETF is is documents it\u0027s like it\u0027s like it\u0027s a One Direction thing so I do think we somehow need to fix that the poor camel was suffering on that one so but that should be done soon we\u0027ve got two things in the is GQ serve sale which looks like berry released this morning and the no response issue which I pushed out we have two write-ups going on and I am committing I had to apologize to Ben oh like three times yesterday because I want 2845 biz done this week we\u0027re gonna push that along and so that\u0027s our commitment to you that will have that Shepherd write-up done and probably 7706 biz there is that one update that I believe the authors did and as long as that addresses it will do the same there so hopefully by the end of the week Friday that\u0027ll be all moving along because we have two things oh we have extended error which is coming up today that\u0027s good times the multi provider Dean has sex we need some comments from folks so we\u0027ve heard a few things but we should get some emails from folks to say whether they want to move it through working group last call or not we believe it\u0027s it\u0027s a good solid document we just need to hear some more stuff so either way kind of thing please folks send some emails do something maybe the authors can leverage them their goodwill on people and ready for working group last call and we\u0027ve been sitting on these mostly because we\u0027ve been trying to get the other document son and they just don\u0027t want to go as fast as we want them to the zone digest I can it with which Dewayne will talk about briefly and the TCP requirements that he\u0027s gonna talk about briefly on Thursday and we don\u0027t think they need a lot but we\u0027ve been really just trying to get that backlog going so we can start pushing these out because we got stuff going on and we finally adopted that yang document the Cheras wanted to send it to the ops area and then Warren said well that\u0027s where drafts go to die and I was like that\u0027s what I thought Deana stock was four so we were kind of confused by that so but it\u0027s only gonna sit there until the ihe kind of figures out this whole yang "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:29",
    "text": "problem so that\u0027s probably the most simple way of putting it so we\u0027ve got a couple other documents that we\u0027re not going to talk about the 7816 biz which expired that\u0027s kind of sad so we\u0027ll have to find Stefan and see what\u0027s going on there they ain\u0027t named document it\u0027s actually gonna be discussed what\u0027s that did I get that wrong oh is that in D Prime no it\u0027s not I didn\u0027t know that\u0027s Paul Hoffman co-author on 7816 biz I\u0027ve been waitin on the working group chairs to say whether you want us to be moving it forwards or not oh I\u0027ve sent my badges over the last six months cuz we\u0027re ready to revive it I I apologize okay usually no we were waiting on you you you would last time you had said we\u0027ve got a lot going on and so for those who don\u0027t know 7816 basis\u0027 q name minimization and the miss will be both to possibly put on standards track but to mostly to show what has been found out you know in in deployments and we\u0027ve got some interesting research articles and such like that so last I heard you were waiting until things sort of settle down here because we weren\u0027t in a rush we\u0027re happy to try and Ralph said that he would co-author we\u0027re ready to do it do you want us to go ahead yeah I figure because you should get your chairs a little bit more no we missed that um no yeah okay no right the a name draft there\u0027s actually part of the discussion on the Ben and Eric\u0027s draft actually sort of covers some stuff in there there\u0027s some actually some interesting stuff some good slides in there these we aren\u0027t actually gonna really cover the terminology turf and we figured some stuff\u0027s gonna come up from that ABCD buff that happened earlier today and some other stuff so who knows probably the next meeting will be in shape to do something and the resolver information people seem to be implementing it but they\u0027re just not talking about it so those which cannot be named but there\u0027s actually deprived documents that seem to be referencing it so that\u0027s why I was kind of wondering where that status was so that\u0027s kind of else and there isn\u0027t stuff\u0027s going to be talked about either today or Thursday most of it\u0027s all today and that\u0027s you know in the data tracker or on our github we have an adopted a bunch we haven\u0027t seen a lot that people seem to be sort of thrilled on that may change after they\u0027ve bought this book this afternoon so Benno\u0027s gonna talk hackathon updates and then I think we\u0027ll kick over to Duane and sort of take it from there and I\u0027m gonna think I\u0027m good I think and you sit down because there\u0027s no room up here so so thanks all [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:40",
    "text": "there we are [Music] [Music] more practical well this ITF this hackathon as usual a group of Venus software engineers gathered around the table and also as usual other than other groups actually we didn\u0027t have a plan one single plan we had a number of plans so each software developer worked on an ID and most of these IDs are directly relevant to the needs of working group or deprived working group so if we consider the number of themes which Dena\u0027s privacy protocol improvement service provisioning SPSS FEC and eNOS monitoring which is not that directly Dinah\u0027s up working group related but could work anyways and worth mentioning good under Dena\u0027s privacy beam Manu retai worked on dienes over TLS to authoritative so it was kind of how could that work how can we make it work that from a recursive to an authoritative so it worked on a set of net blocks specifying a kind of whitelist of set of net blocks that are d-o-t enabled including an house name for verification so you can specify it ABC 0/24 and then DLT is mandatory how to come this to bootstrap this list that\u0027s something the deprived working group has to work upon so this is not soft but at least this could be a way to implement it once this discovery has been specified dinners all over HTTP design in by nine so recently all the network code has been refactored out of the DNS well separated from the dns codes in by nine so and with this new design the new network design do H as been can be easily or more easily fitted in in by nine so Andre words on that and about timelines I\u0027m not sure somewhere early next year Dinah\u0027s over hb3 quick bene in senti works on a proof of concept implementation based on the clouds flare Kish library it\u0027s also working progress it\u0027s good bristles here Dena\u0027s protocol improvement villain will tell Willam worked on it together with Andre and it was interesting it\u0027s kind of finalizing the draft but also testing IDs so if the draft we specified this way it can be implemented in this is performance so it was interesting and so forth between specification implementation and said it was very worthwhile villain will tell "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:42",
    "text": "more about this later extended error the draft will also be presented later there was already some code in unbound and Tim Rotenberg and low Gordon he were worked on well on update in the couch in in what in according to the latest draft also working progress was not completed yet during the hackathon the service provisioning so Ralph Norman\u0027s words on an update of his implementation in the last hackathon last in Montreal Roth implemented the HTTP HTTP VC as SVC the draft has been updated so Rolf also updated the implementation inbound including the SVC be records and not everybody has tested but there are some similarities so it\u0027s good work here going on and there will be some feedback to the document specifically for the implementation details Dina\u0027s monitoring Paul Hoffman and violent or worked together on a tool so the project is about well the project is more than only this tool but the project is about the kind of the performance performance indicators of the root system and that there has to be hundred percent so one of the things is they want to test the the DNS responses from the past so Phila dating a root zone you have something like filadyne s or Aldean s 35 zone but that\u0027s the zone file it\u0027s not the response from a name server so vilem and Paul worked together to build a tool to do some well to store queries from the past or to store queries for later do the chain validation the DNA SEC validation of answers so to summarize it correctly thank you good code is on the github hackathon website that\u0027s it these are the the hackers my name is also between that you might notice that I was not associated with any of the projects that\u0027s correct I\u0027m just talking out here exactly I brought the coffee also important that\u0027s it maybe some questions follow-ups otherwise go directly to the to the to the hackers to the software developers for more questions that\u0027s it that\u0027s my part ok I think Duane is next up but just as a really rap rap rap oh sorry it seemed it is really really useful this hackathon and we see much if we make quite some progress during this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:42",
    "text": "interaction with group of people two days around the table and discuss IDs it\u0027s not only coding it\u0027s also a lot of talking about good ideas and how to for go forward Thanks I will pull up your slide all right so I\u0027m doing this is a just a few minutes about the status of the the message digest for DNS zones draft so for a while now this this draft has supported the idea of algorithm agility that this is a change from the variance so now there is the idea of having multiple zone MD records in the zone after after that change was published there was some some good feedback from a couple of people who pointed out some some issues with sort of forward and backward compatibility so an important change in the very last version is that the the digest type field and the formerly called the reserved field now called the parameter field sort of the interpretations of those has changed previously the their interpretations were independent from each other but but in the current version the the inter meaning of the parameter field depends on on the digestible so please take a look at that that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s an important change the current draft says that you you must not have multiple digests with the same type and parameter so that this is kind of designed to keep the the size of the are set small and and keep keep the reason for having multiple zone digests only for supporting algorithm rollovers the the the the the name of the so the the document defines one digest type which formerly was just called sha 384 now it\u0027s called sha 384 - stable and there was a very brief discussion about whether stable is a good name and and maybe something else would be better such as flat and I\u0027m I\u0027m supportive of that I think that\u0027s maybe a better choice there are currently two interoperable implementations of the zone digest so that\u0027s that\u0027s very cool and we think it\u0027s ready for working group less call and I would also like to ask the working group if if so previously there was a little bit of I think reluctance on the working groups part to adopt it as proposed standard so it\u0027s currently marked as experimental and I would like to ask if people have maybe changed out the feel about that and if we could consider going back to proposed standard just to go a little "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:43",
    "text": "bit more into what that means as far as the intended status there\u0027s a section in the document now that describes what\u0027s experimental about the the proposed deployment and I think that the question that we really have to consider is whether people are comfortable that it\u0027s deployable as as written you know it\u0027s at scale or the suggestions good the the the issues called out in the section about the experiment which is I believe section 5 you kind of have to figure out do we need more the experiment that\u0027s described in order to determine whether this is deployable at scale and should be proposed standard or if there\u0027s enough in the document now that people are confident can be deployed as is yeah one of the the experiment that is described there sort of relates to this issue of of the meaning of the parameter field and and the digest type and I personally I feel that now that those have been sort of combined differently it makes it a little easier to understand to to consider that it could be a proposed standard and less reasons for it to be experimental question questions or concerns about status any of those things alright I guess I am this is John Levine I sort of a a dumb question you know I look at this I don\u0027t understand why what what looks hard to deploy about it like you sort the zone and you sum it up so a lot of the discussion earlier on was about how you would support large dynamic zones with something like this and and so that\u0027s that\u0027s also the nature of the experiment so if you if you sort of restrict this right now to smaller or stable zones it\u0027s it\u0027s quite easy to deploy that the complexity comes from from the other and so but for me the obvious use case is downloading the root zone and making sure and validating the glue you know so I think I think even do even good for yeah for assigning a static zone isn\u0027t necessarily super huge I mean I think the use cases are already really obvious yes you know so please move it ahead okay thanks so but John does that mean you would support proposed standard or keep it experimental give an opinion on that I would if I can get come here at phonemes yes I think as it is with the one you know flat and I don\u0027t care what we call it flat state I think the existing signing thing is technically simple enough that it makes sense to be proposed standard if people want to do experiments with funky trees for updates like like and that can be an experiment and and I guess I will defer to the to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:45",
    "text": "management whether that needs to be like this say this is an experiment or carbon off and it was into a separate document or or more likely just like do the experiment and come back and say hey this this way this way of signing update seems to work okay thanks Alex my offer once more question what are the two implementations that you did you can say it again what are the two interrupt people implementations that you did so one implementation is by myself using LD NS so it\u0027s in see the other implementation was done by Shane Kerr at a hackathon in Python okay cool and total to the question of experimental or standard striker I believe we can perfectly run this this experimental for now and if it proves to be successful why not rehash it in a piece version and then that\u0027s the experience from the from the deployment into it like we did with unit minimization okay thank you any other any other suggest suggestions questions no okay thanks okay yeah it seems to me that unless there\u0027s strong support for putting this out as experimental PS makes sense just because experimental is kind of a commitment to come back later and reevaluate and if folks don\u0027t feel that\u0027s necessary I don\u0027t know I\u0027m not sure we should commit to the future work well I\u0027ll be a little bit I guess more talk more about my rationale for wanting to do because you know as John said I see this being very useful for the root zone and I would like to see it deployed there and I think that as a proposed standard it has more chance of of getting to that point where as people may be reluctant to put something experimental you know on the root zone yeah there\u0027s just area direct with no hats on great so if it\u0027s experimental it\u0027s likely that we\u0027re going to try and explain what the experiment is and what the success and failure criteria are and I\u0027m not really sure what we would say other than so that would be helpful if people tell us there is a current say there is this brief section in the current document that if we that\u0027s another reason to lean towards saying what\u0027s there is clear enough that it\u0027s implementable now because we would have to satisfy our area director that we had described the experiment an adequate detail so yeah chair chair head off and all that labs had so another that is also planning to implement an MD zone mrs. dices owns and also in well "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:48",
    "text": "response of Alex remark in order to kind of experimental implement lasers maybe but we are planning to do it\u0027s in production codes somewhere next year so that\u0027s my my contribution for now on the discussion but that we are planning to do that in production cut-offs okay thank you okay thanks but if we go really fast we can go to the social okay I\u0027m Wes Parker I was going to talk today about the extended error conclusions and some non conclusions from the working group last called number two I will say well there\u0027s a bunch of other authors I should have listed them and I didn\u0027t my apologies to all of them the good news out of all this is that people seem to really care and you know they want it to be correct and right and and perfect which is a good thing because sometimes drafts you know people don\u0027t care about I mean there\u0027s no comments and that\u0027s not necessarily better so first off I\u0027m going to talk about some conclusions that I don\u0027t think need help please correct me if I\u0027m wrong and I\u0027m going to talk about some conclusions that weren\u0027t really quite conclusions and brought up more questions than anything else so the the conclusion that I think was fairly easily resolved was registry changes that previously there was three different sections at the registry and we\u0027ve removed that and changed it to just this about the simplest there\u0027s you know there\u0027s sixty-five thousand two hundred and eighty entries so we allocated the first most of the the first ones the first forty nine thousand one hundred and fifty-two technically as first-come first-serve if anybody has a beef for this versus requiring technical expert or anything like that but there\u0027s so many entries it doesn\u0027t seem necessary to require expert review or anything out of a higher string and then the last one there\u0027s a bunch of people of a few people that said they\u0027d still wanted a private use space going once going twice alright so that was the end of the easy ones so now there\u0027s two sort of major issues that came up after that and there they were worth discussing enough to bring here today as opposed to trying to resolve them on a mailing list and so the first is what do we do out UDP overflow issues so overflow happens all the time especially with things like glue and the normal thing that we do is we set the TC bit a truncated bit in order to say hey some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:49",
    "text": "important information has been excluded you may want to come back and retry over TCP so you can get the rest of this important information that I\u0027m leaving out well extended errors of course being sort of arbitrary in size could of course cause overflow as well so one of the important revelations is we didn\u0027t specify anything to do in the document and clearly it\u0027s less important than some of those other things like glue so we proposed putting in information saying we should just drop anything but then it kind of comes to the question of well do you set the TC bit so if if there is ete information that gets dropped should that require setting the TC bit so there\u0027s some sort of some problems with that one setting the TTB it seems rather extreme that\u0027s kind of like you know ete is really only supplemental information and re trying over tcp just to get some extra supplemental information seems kind of extreme as well and the IDI information that got dropped maybe UDP specific so when you request over TCP you could actually get the exact same answer because it the error actually went away because you went to a different protocol so a new idea was floated on the list from Victor do companies colleague which would be an interesting thing to put in the acknowledgment section that a new he never said who it was but we\u0027d have to find out if we go this route that a new Idina 0 bit might be used to say that instead of the TC bit that would basically say we\u0027ve left out some non-essential diagnostic information which sort of gives you a better hint of how much you actually care to go retrieve that you know if you if you\u0027re actually trying to debug stuff you might you know actually want to call a tool that says yes I really want to go back and refresh that over TCP or something so that you can figure out whether to debug it or not so here\u0027s the options going forward and this is where I think we need feedback we could don\u0027t specify anything clearly that was wrong and I think nobody wants that option so I already crossed it out we need to drop Edes first right if we I think everybody agrees it\u0027s probably the least important information at this point the question comes do we set the TC bit do we don\u0027t set the TC bit and just leave it as is or do we create a new bit that it says supplemental information was dropped I\u0027m sort of on the fence I would love lots of opinions of what other people especially implementers that actually want to deal with this and do stuff based on it excellent right valise I see Wes can you expand on the possibilities of how a needy could actually cause overflow because of minimal error response would normally only have the answer sorry have the question section in it anyway which doesn\u0027t really repeat it I missed a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:49",
    "text": "couple of words or any echo pay a minimal error response which only needs to have the questions section in it for matching up with the original query so remembers I got it so so thank you remember that these can be included with any sort of response and that even includes no error responses in fact I think there\u0027s some examples of that in the draft of when you might so you\u0027re right so that it might be unusual for this to actually occur in the wild but it still absolutely so it\u0027s the extended no no response in an honor yes exactly Mike hi Mike st. John\u0027s um you said something interesting where the data retrieved on TCP might not be the same day that you have gotten under UDP you know the error that okay the the error response and that means that if you set any bit there\u0027s no reason to go to hit TCP because all you\u0027re gonna get you may not get what you were trying to get right so you need either to make that data the same or carry it over and say well this is what you have gotten if you\u0027ve done this in UDP and we\u0027re just keeping it for TCP so be aware be aware that I like the last one creating a new bit but if you go back and ask the question you need to get the information you would have gotten had you been able stuff at all in hideout implementations would be willing to figure out how to do that properly but I understand your point then you mean wanted to sort of drop this and not do it well that\u0027s that\u0027s one option right we\u0027ll just switch back and forth between microphones hi this is Andre I see so from the implementers point don\u0027t do anything special so GC bid is perfectly fine because it will happen only in one of million and switching to TCP is the thing we are going to do anyway so just set the tcp if it doesn\u0027t fit don\u0027t care about there that is not in the tcp that\u0027s fine there is over behind late but a reasonable code will not handle yet another option and yet another different handling so please don\u0027t treat it and especially just just use the normal code math for it so if it doesn\u0027t fit just drop the mic cut out it from the bottom to the top until it fits set a TC bit and let the resolvers handle it okay great I was expecting somebody with that opinions and I\u0027ll say about how come I what honor is it all right - yeah Eric or chrome DNS I want express support for the creating a new bit option just because I can see lots of cases where you\u0027re doing some debugging up and you\u0027re gonna want to get that extra info if it was dropped but in the case of Chrome I don\u0027t think we\u0027re gonna want to make another request to get it it\u0027s good enough without the error info we\u0027re not going to want to make another round trip to do that so I think there\u0027s cases where you want get it or you don\u0027t want to get it and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:49",
    "text": "new bits the way to do that okay riddling for repeaters bad check TC equals one in case where II D overflow seems excessive so I would say drop ete do not set t c equals one new e dns bit seems to be out of scope and should be specified in a separate document later and Ted lemon also bits are expensive did you say bits are expensive okay Robert Robert story is I I\u0027m gonna say the opposite but everybody else is saying and you didn\u0027t consider leaving ete and maybe shortening the the glue records because people are you know if you say you\u0027re gonna set truncation if you don\u0027t have enough glue but you only have ete if it was specifically requested so they asked for a needy response so throwing it away and keeping to fit in some extra glue records it seems like they want the error message you set the t see if they want more of the glue records they can retry with TC so I am unless my recollection is wrong we there is no bit indicating I want it you just get it wait there was at one point I think we removed that so now II des can be included regardless of whether people said they wanted it okay Brian Brian Dixon GoDaddy what if you set the TC bit and also created a new bit so anything that was old and backward compatible would just do the TC thing something that was newer would decide based on that bit what it should do where\u0027s that do complex no that\u0027s actually a good that\u0027s a good secondary so the new bit would indicate the TC is actually not that important Mike st. John Sakata um my thing about this going back the TC bit implies that I left something out and if you ask me again over TCP you will get what I left out so if this doesn\u0027t meet that syntax you really try it should avoid redefining it well so be careful there right because the TC bit is a hint that you should retry over TCP and hopefully you will get everything because the dns is a flexible system there\u0027s no guarantee that when you ask again that something won\u0027t have changed so it\u0027s not a guarantee at all it\u0027s a strong indication implication that yeah you should try okay yeah please more opinions would be good because we\u0027re a andrey again so I just want to support what you said best because when you send a query via UDP you might hit a different server in a cloud or any cost and then when you connect 50 CB might get be hitting at completely different server that will give a completely different answer so the state between the UDP or TCP never "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:49",
    "text": "existed in Deanna\u0027s and it should not not be introduced especially not in this minor draft yeah now that\u0027s a very good point - okay so I\u0027m gonna ask the chairs to call consensus all right I think we\u0027ll let that sit and I\u0027ll send a message to the list and see if if we can give a consensus on there and maybe people sitting on it for a little bit will Evan yeah yeah indeed we get a good sense from the room now we should probe the mailing list needs okay and then right and thanks for option before yeah that was a good one yeah okay set to bits all right last option and the harder one multiple last call comments said you know what we really need to handle the forwarding case so if people remember previously in the document we said it was a undefined situation as to what to do when a needy occurred say at a resolver that got it from authoritative server or an upstream resolver and you know how to pass it back to the client or something you know and in a longer chain that we all know and love in the DNS world so discussions with a couple of people led to a series of options so I\u0027m gonna list them all here some of which I\u0027ve already struck out because they don\u0027t seem wise but they\u0027re all listed for completeness one we could mandate that no forwarding happens you just drop it all on the floor I don\u0027t think anybody wants to do that and I think the comments on the list clearly indicated that we could mandate the resolver and forwarders simply copy it forward so you just you know if you\u0027re generating more stuff back to the client then you just you know copy it all in and off you go note that resolvers may have been talking to more than one upstream you may have been talking to more than one authoritative server that may have given you some ete options that you may want to pass them all back to the client which makes it kind of hard to figure out for the client where did all this stuff come from you could just copy and adjust that extra text field so you add an extra bit of information to the front of it saying hey you know I was talking to somebody else they gave me this error I\u0027m gonna augment it saying where I got it from this doesn\u0027t seem like the most wise thing to do because you\u0027re modifying somebody else\u0027s information and we\u0027ll get back to formatting in a little bit so options four to seven four you could add some tracing elements to the packet in other words you could add elements to say where this came from so that you can trace it along and there is even some discussions of doing some sort of like traceroute mechanism where you are actually adding multiple hops so that you keep growing it so that you could actually trace it all the way down as useful as that is I think that the implementation complexity would make most implementers throw it out the window we could recommend adding source "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:51",
    "text": "indication like with another ete supplemental flag that you would add after the other one and say well I got this previous one from this other guy and that actually would require sorting that\u0027s why number five is crossed out because there is no requirement right now that resource records be sorted and I really don\u0027t think we want to insert that requirement in fact some implementers said no I wouldn\u0027t do that of course number six we could make the document experimental that was suggested on the list as just get more deployment exercise and come deal with it later and number seven is your idea here which Brian will fill us in on and then it give me one minute Brian so number for one I think is where external consensus before this discussion has sort of come to a conclusion that adding a single source to the ete generating by the e de generating entity and then passing that on so in other words the is sort of the new proposed packet format and so you can see that the new there\u0027s a new flag on the on the bottom right there\u0027s a source length on a source field that gets added and then some indication of source and we\u0027ll get into that in a second part of this discussion of this was generated by 8 me by some definition of me and we\u0027ll get to that in a minute but Brian go ahead I was gonna insert my idea here saying 4.1 with an identity identity for this is gonna be coming from another thing if the ATD working group or ABCD working group actually forms something I was gonna hope to work on there effectively local locally generated global unique but locally scoped name to be usable within a forwarding chain that would let you if it\u0027s an upgraded resolver actually do like a TCP direct DNS trace route or as a minimum have the ability to a generate an identity that is useful for so that is the hard thing to do when you start thinking about identities and in some of the before discussions we came up with all of these crazy notions of well it could be on a private address based network it could be that you pulled it over a URL so you should include something that can do HTTPS and the in the identity field and now you\u0027re passing it back over DNS I mean there\u0027s all these crazy sort of notions of DNS has has no notion of how you got the packet and that it must be the same protocol all the way through so the identity section we\u0027re so we\u0027re gonna get to that in a minute which is here\u0027s the list of identities that that we we could possibly stick in the source field but for now I want to stick with is 4.1 a single identity the right answer or would somebody prefer some of the other ones we\u0027ll get we\u0027ll get into naming the identities in a second is that ofer Mobile is 44.1 it\u0027s the right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:52",
    "text": "thing excellent perfect array ballast I see my vote is none of the above please just don\u0027t edan s s frantic so suppose to be hop-by-hop and this is a massive extension for semantics yes so would your your proposal would be drop it on the floor drop it on the floor default at the moment and we know that we\u0027re not good in DNS to kind of upgrade stuff so unless all the kind of forwarders in the past implement that then well we\u0027ll drop it on the floor anyway and if the foreword is implemented I think they can make an informed decision to give back the correct error I mean that was with the implementation saying okay I got this error and maybe got it from somewhere the somewhere might actually not be reachable for you because of forwarding change of private space okay so if you\u0027re both saying the same thing basically it should be the middle box that is actually handling the original one to make an intelligent determination of what to do with it whether to refactor it and create a new one and pass it on to a client that correct yeah more or less but with the caveat that what we call the middle box depends on whether you\u0027re talking about a dumb yeah home gateway type proxy for was just it\u0027s essentially almost nothing more than a NAT versus something is actually intelligently sat in the path of the DNS query okay so if you don\u0027t know what to do with it because you\u0027re not you\u0027re seeing new codes or something just drop them and and don\u0027t add to it okay the site first please Ben Schwartz I I don\u0027t like this for a different reasons I also am somebody who\u0027s kind of intrigued by the idea of a DNS tracer but I think that there\u0027s an efficiency concern here where potentially an upstream resolver might have a good reason actually the more information it can include the better it\u0027s the more useful it can be for debugging the more it can help whatever the next hop is but because there\u0027s no signal here in the query that requests this information there\u0027s essentially no choice but to do this all the time and so we\u0027re proposing to essentially include potentially a very large amount of information in every single response packet if I imagine for example including entired URI templates of every hop in the in the request path in every single response I think it\u0027s very inefficient and not very useful okay so drop it on the floor and don\u0027t pass anything forward yeah I think related to the previous conversation I would slightly adjust this and say essentially forward it or set your own basically but if you if you\u0027re not edie aware then probably you should just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:53",
    "text": "forward it if you don\u0027t understand what it is so if you re D aware if you have a cut if you\u0027d like to have a code other than the one that was sent to you you know replace it didn\u0027t you just contradict yourself and your original statement I know I know what I\u0027m saying is that we shouldn\u0027t grow a chain here where we where we extend and extend and extend oh so you don\u0027t like the traceroute right okay that so four point one is actually okay which is well so that there\u0027s a question of whether we add a single source or not so you\u0027re saying don\u0027t add a source at all just for either forward it intact or replace it got it okay Andre I see so Wes if you need a sentence to draft I would say forwarding they\u0027re handling of EDD forwarding is not specified by Z so command and it is implementation specific there may be like thunderous later it doesn\u0027t have to be experimental it could be unspecified and said it is this implementation specific and just deal with if this until one we have more experience so this is like sakes but not making the document experimental well actually that\u0027s what the document says now so I should have had a number zero which is right now it says it is unspecified but there is multiple people that thought that that would not be useful that is because so trying to quote some of the the people that brought this up it\u0027s most likely a resolver that would get some of these errors and they would want to know how to forward it to the client because otherwise the resolver is gonna do nothing but log the information and it\u0027s not as it\u0027s not as helpful to the world if the end client and the end thing that started this whole chain doesn\u0027t get that chain of extra information I\u0027m sort of pseudo quoting other people hi I don\u0027t think qualified to have a really a technical pinion on the various options but I would like to point out that conceptually at least for the more application oriented codes like the ones on filtering at least a need for them to get forward throughout that entire chain otherwise they are completely useless so if if there\u0027s a CP doing forwarding for example it does the need for they call Sweden to get forward at 10:00 today to the client otherwise it why do we add them so I think four point one okay thank you whatever order I\u0027m just to keep things moving you had another issue you wanted to get to know okay so you don\u0027t want to go into that now no I\u0027m waiting for this discussion today all right you don\u0027t have unbanded time that\u0027s what am I going here sorry so I\u0027m going to close the mic line for this section so you can get to the rest year okay the last time she learned it rave Alice I see again sorry to pick on something been said this goes back to what I was just about a genus and hop-by-hop yeah when if you\u0027ve got a folder in the path it will already strip every DNS "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:55",
    "text": "option that comes back because that you Denis Eady s options have no semantic meaning whatsoever but other than between two parties that exchange those specific messages so if I could send a query to a folder yeah whatever any dense options go out from there or up to the folder I\u0027d have liked to do with the client similarly what comes back from the folder are irrelevant as far as the clients concerned that\u0027s normally units behavior and that\u0027s why I have concerns about this whole idea of sending stuff back because even this just doesn\u0027t work that way it is exclusively for use between an individual client and the machine is talking to it\u0027s just to respond to that I have no objection to that to that description personally I\u0027ve seen forwarders that are true Nets that do not inspect the DNS packets so yes that there is lots of specific ITAT I mentioned that\u0027s in 68 sorry well a common phenomena for the revised e was 50 because of my pretty long 5625 if all you\u0027re doing is that forwarding then there\u0027s an expectation yes you can you basically treat the DNS packet is almost sufism opaque blob so what goes out goes through than that it goes up to the upstream server comes back again but if you\u0027re in the DNS path actually process the Nunez packet then eagerness has no semantics through that forwarding path that makes sense to me okay thanks brain Maas so I\u0027m gonna try and keep it short but I just sort of a heads up that people may want to have tomatoes ready to throw at me because I\u0027m gonna suggest something which is basically from a semantic perspective I don\u0027t think forwarders that aren\u0027t eating ege upgraded or in it have any other advanced features at any value one of the things about the DNS traceroute concept would be to enable a client to learn what the actual resolver is as opposed to the forwarders and establish a direct connection as far as i can think of it really is only ever going to get the information coming from the resolver so the fact that it goes through forwarders if it\u0027s able to determine that there\u0027s no conflict in the addressing and it\u0027s able to directly reach the true resolver if it can find its name somehow and address which is the stuff I\u0027m going to be working on in the other group this may make most of this moot I hope so there are a number of cases if you go read through all of the current ones where you might be getting it from an authoritative server like an authoritative server will say I\u0027m lame is one of the examples where is she - resolver pass that back to the client that\u0027s a tour is over so but that would be coming from the resolver not a forward or if you can talk to the resolver if that\u0027s that would be up to the resolver whether to pass that information on to the client I\u0027d have to go read all of the examples in the document but there\u0027s a few cases where you\u0027re getting it from an upstream yeah so okay thanks Ben Schwartz for that case I would suggest just defining codes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:57",
    "text": "that instead of it\u0027s forwarding a code that says I\u0027m lame define a code that says are tative was lame okay three minutes all right so really I\u0027m probably okay so if we add a source and that remains to be determined but if we went down the the will go back to the list and get some evaluation of other people at this point it\u0027s interesting to see that the discussion has turned back around to sort of what the document says now in in a lot of it but that\u0027s okay the you have to explore all options and then come back if we do want to add a source field what do we put in it and so the options that we\u0027re sort of thrown out and I mentioned some of them earlier NS ID would be one host name fully qualified host name remember that this would be added by the entity generating the option so first off an IP address a URL a IP colon port assert subject name right there\u0027s lots of ways that a host might be identifying itself after thinking about all this NS ID is actually very very generic it is a binary blob that should be printed via hex if you go read the NS ID description and it can accommodate anything so a few of us that talked NS ID seems to be the right choice there because it can sort of cisu the rest of those if anybody thinks that there is a better option I would like to hear about it in two minutes prefix the field with what kind of thing it is so NS ID : hostname or fqdn : whatever we thought about adding a type field too but yeah then it gets even more complex and managing that and it seems overly complex compared to NS IDs already exists to name things in the DNS space in terms of an identifier so how much does that actually buy you and it\u0027s not much okay so it sounds like you need to go assess what you\u0027ve heard here and then either propose a revision I\u0027ll go back to the mailing list for a further discussion particularly on the E and the forwarding options yeah I agreed I think both options came up with a plethora of opinions that did not converge today into a single or two opinions yes so go ahead and figure out what you think and if there\u0027s further discussion we can do it almost all right thank you all that was actually helpful and not at the same time but that\u0027s okay thank you very much thing and thanks everybody next bin Ben Schwartz yeah we\u0027re good in time yeah we have a lot to talk about so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:04",
    "text": "I\u0027ll try to move fast here and we can come back to the slides if there\u0027s something you want to talk about more so SVC B is a draft that has been adopted by this working group and the goal is that the client can do a query and get back a a full set of information needed for connecting to a service so in cases where you need more information or at least would like more information than just the IP address before you initiate a connection this can give you a whole bundle of information containing whatever it is that you need to know it\u0027s also intended to solve version of the cname at Apex problem possibly not the entire cname at Apex problem but at least a big chunk of it and in addition to SVC B itself there is HTTP SVC which is an HTTP specialized form that that is intended for use with HTTPS this is what we originally presented so ITF 105 we presented HTTP SVC and got consistent or at least repeated feedback that people would like to see a solution that was less specifically bound to HTTPS at the same time we found that an HTTP specific RR type was valuable and so we have both a generic solution and a specialization to HTTPS and that that\u0027s the form that this took at a adoption one of the things you can do with this record is to do multi CDN hosting with encrypted sni this has been one of the trickiest challenges with encrypted sni where there are multiple IP addresses that could be associated with your domain name corresponding to different pools of servers operated by different parties those parties have different public keys and so when you do your DNS queries you need to get back an IP address and the public key and it\u0027s fairly important that that IP address and public key are a matched pair that\u0027s why you need to get them in a single query instead of in two separate queries which potentially could give you the IP address of one CDN and then the public key of the other one so that in presentation form in a zone file these records have two possible forms one of them is called the alias form it looks like this it\u0027s it\u0027s a simple alias of a name it\u0027s essentially only intended to be used at apexis if you\u0027re not at the apex of his own you should probably use a cname but but when aliasing and apex this can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:07",
    "text": "can make that possible and the other form is called service form this is used by ESI in fact it is now referenced well it is now essentially a dependency of the encrypted sni draft in the TLS working group so this is the way that we expect to distribute yes and I public keys and other configuration options but it also includes other attributes here notably as shown in this example you can indicate that the ALP n is h3 meaning that this is an HTTP 3 capable server endpoint in which case the client can initiate its connection with quick instead of the status quo where the only way to get to quic is to start with TLS over TCP and then get an in band indication from the server that you should close your connection and try again which is not very efficient and not very elegant so there have been quite a few changes since IETF 105 most notably the generalization to SVC B and this importantly a change in syntax so if if you look at the example in this slide we have the in red this key equals value syntax in the zone file that is no longer the HTTP alt service and tax which is what what the last presented version of this had but those were before adoption so hopefully people have seen this since adoption there have been smaller changes and I won\u0027t go through all of them so there are two major remaining design questions in in my view although I would not at all be surprised if we discover some more in the course of implementations beginning and in the course of further reviews of the draft one of them is related to reliability fallback and yes and I so it\u0027s when building reliable start it\u0027s very nice it\u0027s very convenient if your clients have a fallback behavior where if they attempt a connection to one of the various options that exists and that attempt fails their clients will retry down some sort of list but with encrypted sni it\u0027s very important that your clients not fall back from an attempt that used encrypted sni to an attempt that did not use encrypted s and ims revealed the thing that the server was trying to protect so there is a tension here between reliability and and security and in particular accidental miss configuration and the other issue that has come up is how to describe the alias chain length so we have an alias "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:08",
    "text": "type here the alias form of this record and that creates some sort of chain so the question is how many times if you encounter an alias how many times should you keep following aliases before you essentially give up so and in something like a loop detection I want to point out in case you haven\u0027t read the draft that these aliases intermix freely with cname so the question is not to have to limit the question is not how to limit the number of total hops or in the inner or total links in a forwarding chain the question is in a forwarding chain which could potentially can\u0027t contain some mixture of these records and see names how many of these alias form records should we allow in that chain and you know do we need to enforce something like if you have an alias to a cname to an alias is that allowed or not allowed things like that there\u0027s one other question that I realized after making these slides that I think would be worth covering and that\u0027s just to say that the current description of the required server behavior at least that the recommended server behavior which is section 4 really could use some review from server implementers both authoritative and recursive I think that there\u0027s we could use a little bit more specificity in describing exactly what additional records should be returned so those are the substantive questions there are also two purely bike shed questions that that we need to deal with one of them is about the presentation format I in a previous slide I showed you this form with a zero here you know the presentation format is a is fairly flexible if we want we could get rid of this zero opinions welcome I guess and the other thing is what to name this thing we have names of course the that we\u0027ve presented here nobody really likes these names nobody really hates these names and we need to pin down names I think I\u0027ll stop there for discussion all right relaying for Mark Andrews he says stop working about she working about chain lengths recursive servers already have limits for this keep the zero okay Regulus I see the doctrine talks about cooperating servers and saying they should look up the a records quad a record so whatever just from point of view of our our type allocation with that level of conformance requirements you may not be able to get early allocations through expert review if it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:08",
    "text": "was a May I think you\u0027d be okay that should just is getting to a point where it exceeds the expectations that an expert reviewer can go because if there\u0027s required additional processing then it has to go to a full is IHF review Eric or Chrome DNS two comments one on the chain length chrome is very sensitive to latency this is in the critical path for loading web pages for however many users we have and we just want to avoid around unnecessary round trips as much as possible so unless someone has real concrete use cases for why the chain lengths should be eight we should be reducing that as much as possible to make it sure everyone the Gries is kosher for Lansing sensitive clients like chrome to stop doing the round trips as soon as they can as soon as it becomes clear this is an unreasonable use case to try anymore my other comment is I hate HBS services I\u0027m surprised I was able to say it and just one try there it\u0027s very hard to say I do not like it please come up with a better name okay Alex may over Nick today tea I admit I haven\u0027t I haven\u0027t read the document but a question came to my mind that is could that service that is being referred in that record also be the authoritative name server for a certain domain so would in theory that the record sort of like create an alternative delegation structure to a name serve for domain and could that record in that case solve the problem of key discovery for an authoritative encrypted DNS server it\u0027s just like thinking a little bit farther sure I think that you should probably talk to Tommy Poli who\u0027s behind you in line it occurs to me that that what you\u0027re describing sounds like a proposal that he has co-authored in in some detail okay just a quick full I guess from Mark Andrews relaying he says should is fine it isn\u0027t must so ok so then it sounds like we think we can go through is that related to the iesg review I\u0027m sorry that the expert review Diana for early allocation I\u0027ll see if he answers again yes ok thank you Alessandro Kadima CloudFlare I have a clarification question um going back to the earliest form is that the only form allowed on the root zone on their root domain or no alias form is not certainly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:08",
    "text": "not required the because or so I find the example here and in the dropped a bit confusing it seems like if you have example.com you have to have the alias to as we see that example that whatever and then in that actually put the the proper HTTP as we see record but I guess that\u0027s not required that your yes the examples are are mostly demonstrating the most complicated use case in order to exercise all of the features of the system in the examples I think that your point is is well taken that so we should we have a pretty simple use case I have a web server that supports both HTTP to and they should be three and it does yes and I on both so it would be nice to have an example for that as well so with with yes and I in particular one thing I\u0027ll say is in general yes and I makes the most sense when it is controlled by by a CDN and so yeah mysidia okay so then in that case you you you might reasonably expect that you would like to be the one publishing your es and I configuration and you would not want your customers to be publishing you yes I\u0027d like a 12o DNS and HP ah I see yes so in that in the case where the CDN customer domain is under the control of the same party that controls the es and I keys then there is no need for the alias form that\u0027s certainly something that we could cover in an additional example so that was the main use case for de yes and I ENS record is all like the CDN pop publishes it and then there was the whole problem with Lightsey names and whatever but yeah yes so this this structure is is compatible with with all use yeah it\u0027s just like so I found it somewhat confusing okay the other thing is like from you know speaking for Claude Fleur we are interested in this I can talk with the with the DNS authoritative server people and see like if they have comments about this as well as the the resolver people I guess we\u0027re both I have two comments from Jerry first one is from Wally van hoya SVC b sounds very good otherwise but I\u0027m worried about how long we need to have a fallback for clients that don\u0027t support le izing with HTTP SVC can I ever be certain that nobody needs an a record at Apex for combat so here\u0027s a have an additional slide that might be relevant to that I won\u0027t go through all the details here but I think that\u0027s essentially right until some very hypothetical and distant time we will not be able to rely on all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:10",
    "text": "clients implementing this and so you know whatever you have to do today you\u0027re still gonna have to do that for some fraction of clients all right in a second one point Peter Sawchuk expanding on chain limits any latency would be introduced by site owner who also has insensitive not to do stupid things to his own side also it would be hard to implement special chain langs link limits for just 2 RR types please keep the usual DNS behavior Brian Dixon Oh daddy plus a thousand - what he just said I would even go so far as to suggest in the metadata for this to say that it updates D name and C name and to make them all play well together I don\u0027t see any reason not to in regard to the chain lengths chain lengths yes it should it should support any arbitrary ordering and number of processes through the loop it\u0027s it\u0027s again it\u0027s foot gun from the whoever owns the zone whoever manages it it\u0027s their own fault if they make it long and latent they have the ability to fix it but it should it should be a maximal flexibility costly regarding one of those issues number 73 - saying that yes ni has its own secure fallback mechanism that uses a yes and I retry a yes now you try message so I don\u0027t think the DNS draft needs to deal with that and regarding Frick versus HTTP - I agree that there\u0027s a but maybe you can just say that if you only publish quick itv3 vehicles and then you DPS our interval it\u0027s the configuration fault I\u0027m sorry I didn\u0027t hear the last few words yeah well so there I my PSN eyes are this format problem and regarding i HT 3 3 vs ah HTTP - phobic yeah I agree that if UDP is unreachable then and if the only if the server only publishes its remapping then it\u0027ll be clear that there\u0027s a irritability problem so maybe you can just say that I\u0027ll leave it as is so just to explain that a little more I guess the assumption here is that because there will always be or because there will for a long time be clients who aren\u0027t implementing SVC be at all you should you\u0027ll likely be able to fall back to a non SVC be connection or you\u0027re just connecting on bare IP "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:11",
    "text": "addresses except if you accept if you have ES and I if you started with the s and I then that Avenue will fall back is cut off that\u0027s why these things interact thank you I favor how come I like to reiterate what all my fellow resolver opera vendor après said I mean the the cname chain problem really is solved there\u0027s nothing to do ender and the they were usually also is a caching of these kind of negative events when beneath when the change exceeds so there is really not much latency that a stub resolver will get if if there is a consistent problem for for that the other thing the hint section I looked at that text and maybe I mean I think it\u0027s I don\u0027t see the hints used anymore could I misread that yeah so let\u0027s talk about the the IP hints for a second the the IP hints have been a strong request from the encrypted sni side and they\u0027re they are really only used in a fairly narrow situation which I\u0027ve attempted to describe here which I did not fund you can you when are they used so they\u0027re they\u0027re used they\u0027re used when the the client is using a recursive resolver that is not aware of this newer archetype so that this draft does not work does not have a mandatory requirement on recursive to add support it has a should level recommendation there is no need for recursive to understand that record so we\u0027ll transparently just give it to you so there isn\u0027t a need but if the recursive is not aware then the stub is forced to essentially do a chain walking exercise walking any walking through any indirection steps that are present if the essentially if the recursive is operating under RFC 3597 unknown RR type behavior in that case there\u0027s a substantial performance alee a substantial performance penalty for having to walk this chain to find the address records and so in that particular case the IP hints are designed to short-circuit that process and allow clients to connect faster ok thanks and the the last question is what is t5 in key 0 it was just in the in the pen or in the I think 11 section 11 but one where you put all the different stuff and you describe it you define key 0 and key 5 but I couldn\u0027t find any other instance of that in document I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:12",
    "text": "not sure what you\u0027re referring to but I would be I would have a lot of fun Tommy poly Apple so thanks for sharing this we\u0027re very excited about trying to get implementation and testing with it with regards to the points earlier about early allocation and the requirements for that I think it kind of also ties into you know making sure that as we deploy this for experimentation and early deployments with ES and I and other features that this kind of works gracefully when we have many recursive that aren\u0027t doing a special behavior for it and I think the current status of this is you know if we essentially will have some cases that are maybe not optimal if the case if the recursive don\u0027t know about it but we have workarounds so I just want to make sure that we focus on that and if there are any things that we should tweak in the text to make sure that it\u0027s possible to get that early allocation start doing that experimentation we kind of do those changes as necessary also I wanted to check have we asked for early allocation officially yet not yet among other things that it requires us to finalize our our our names and probably also the president okay so this makes the bike shed very important well it makes closing the bike shed very important yes encouraging of anybody to jump in necessary okay so I guess what is the time frame for this in what is the manner in which we want to paint our bike shed so given that is it so far I\u0027ve heard reluctance to engage which I appreciate yes um I think the editors will will try to decide on some final names which might just be current names and send them to the list for for essentially final comments before we freeze it for what\u0027s the please please do my comments earlier with with my expert review hats on so you actually you need basically a fully stable specification clicking at early allocation because implementers will actually in fluent at that point so the presentation format needs to be fixed the Wi-Fi that needs to be completely fixed I just had checked with all my other reviewers we also live the opinion that if it says may so that it\u0027s truly optional processing you\u0027ll be okay for expert review but if you say should that\u0027s too strong the requirement to clarify on that point would it be okay to say may and then potentially have that change by the time it becomes an RFC to it should nominally have about ten minutes left in the session and we\u0027ve got quite a long Mike line here so nobody should feel hard but let\u0027s keep it moving the allocation we can take up on the mailing list when everybody\u0027s had a chance to talk to it and you know make "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:12",
    "text": "sure we understand all the requirements thanks Roman sandals laps um so those alias record snow can point to the SVC records the eight records and quad a record rights which means that if you start walking the chain if you do the additional processing you have to send out three for every aylesh you gets that\u0027s correct if you see in it if you see an alias record as a recursive you have to you have to fire three queries if you don\u0027t and and essentially pass it to the client essentially you don\u0027t implement the should strength recommendation then the client will instead have to issue at least two probably three queries with resolver it also means that if you well you have to wait till you get to n so for your sec query right only then you know if you want to use that one already in quad-a records which also means that if that new record type is blob somewhere you can start using those in quad-a records I\u0027m sorry if a new record type if there are some upstream if there\u0027s something on the path that those were things with unknown record types then you stop resolving yeah that\u0027s it that\u0027s potentially a very serious concern one of the questions I have is is there have you seen significant problems with unknown are with a ability to transfer unknown RR types between recursive and authoritative and yes um would it be possible to indicate in the alias records whether it\u0027s pointing to a other SVC type or not because then the problem is basically solved then you only have to send one query then you send it to a name server where you know they support it but that\u0027s certainly an interesting idea I would have to think more about it maybe the one thing I would say is it creates an operational it creates an operational tie between the alias source and target and so it\u0027s it\u0027s a little bit unpleasant for that reason if a CDN changes its configuration you wouldn\u0027t want to have to tell all the customers that they also have to change their configuration Andre I see so I\u0027m so happy that we are finally abandoning the a name and moving the problem early should have been from the beginning so from the implementers perspective I see no problem there and I\u0027m even willing to buy the bullet and implement the IP hints if it helps you to move from a name - to whatever you name it in the end and implement it in the clients where it should have been from the beginning thank you relaying for Dan York have developers of clients expressed interest in implementing SVC B "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:13",
    "text": "or HTTPS VC I do we have people out there who we\u0027re excited to implement this I think Apple said this earlier okay so if they\u0027re clients wanting to excited being excited to implement this there\u0027s what Dan Erica with Chrome DNS yes we\u0027re excited to implement this right and then I have two other comments from Mark Andrews he says at a sunset date for not using record at Apex and secondly wire formats need to be stable for early allocation yeah as far as the early allocation we\u0027ll make sure that you know will work with I Anna that\u0027s you know frankly it\u0027s part of the chairs job is to make sure that they work with the request is fully cooked before we go to I Anna with it David\u0027s Knaus e Google Chrome yep just well Eric answered what I was gonna say just yes Google Chrome is very interested in this let\u0027s make it happen so have the editors pick a color of a for the bike shed we really don\u0027t care just make it happen so we can move forward key move forward slide well sorry how did that so the the other this particular the different forms other than the alias those are those are needed in certain cases to be able to say there\u0027s more than one kind of thing doesn\u0027t need to have any s and I config I know all the so SVC be in general is protocol independent and it contains essentially an arbitrary key value store this HTTP SVC is HTTP specific and the only mandatory key is a LPN okay cool so I\u0027m sure that Brian Dixon / GoDaddy that we\u0027re very interested in implementing at least the zero case as well as possibly a limited amount of these other more advanced forms as soon as it stabilizes and maybe some kind of label that starts with an H how about Hugh hu e that\u0027s a generic term for a bike shed color okay so we would like to make progress as as fast as we can of course on this draft in particular this draft is blocking certain is one of the things that blocks the widespread deployment of es ni so there\u0027s a there\u0027s a certain amount of pressure to move forward on this but it also sounds like we should be able to make good progress I want to especially thank people who started prototyping and I look forward to the feedback from the prototyping thank you and thank you for the room for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:15",
    "text": "the good discussions and input we also want to thanks villain for his flexibility so the presentation on Dena\u0027s cookies will be bumped and moved to Thursday we have sufficient room good so please continue also this discussion on the mailing list blue sheets for the yeah so we already heard some kind of commitments on the Mike for early implementations from different organizations we\u0027re quite happy with that so and also before working last call we would like to see a number of implementations of our prototype proof of concept implementation also draft okay then we want thanks everybody and see y\u0027all Thursday thanks so much we\u0027re such a good camera "
  }
]