[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:50",
    "text": "Hey, Brian. Good to see you. 2 hours ahead, Hi, Hi there. How's it going? Yeah. Good. Alright. We've got a program. We've got Brian and Chang David, I'm gonna drop my video to save bandwidth. Okay. It's Hey. Close the door so nobody can escape. Alright. So, let's get started. This is the animal working welcome. You're, in Brisbane, IETF 119. And this is the note well page. So please inhale and, consider everything you're saying contributing here is public and follows the idea for looks Oh, also, I pushed down, you know, all these processed slides into"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:04",
    "text": "the backup because we've seen many of them of neck, we should all remember them. But the one thing, obviously, if you're in this room, please you know, log in into, mid echo, either scanning the QR code or, the full or small application so that we can count you in, as as as a participant, the system will are attending remotely. That's happened for free, anyhow. Alright. So for the chair slides, I am just trying to, summarize Okay. For the chair slides, I was just trying to, summarize up what we stand in all the working group documents. So we've got since last IETF 118, there are 4 document that moved from the working group into area director ISG review. We've got, the GRASP distribution that finished the working group last call. In January 2024, submitted to, the AD February 24. We've got, JWS voucher, that we'd submitted in January. And I think I, I still had here, an open issue listed on the media men, but I think that was resolved by, removing the, new registration type. Is that true? So, I mean, the whole media man stuff is not interesting for us, and it was what was what was what was what was what was what was originally in JWS. Michael? Set, Correct interpretation. Yes. Okay. Let me just add that as a note for this item. Right. So then I think we should be fine with respect not hanging on any process things, that that we were depending on. And then the finally is, and, and, and we also, told,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "Rob that, this this document JWS voucher can also perfectly well go through ISG. Up to, you know, RFC editor queue. We, we, we've very safe that we're not ever going to need to change it even though or depending on it, but that is that is fully done. So in the final one, in, in, in this is group, Browski Cloud. That was also in January, Rob, already reviewed that. And I think there was a feedback on that. So Rob, you did, I'm not sure if they're for from Busy Cloud. If what what the latest date after rox reviews there. Are we still ready for a second review or kind of Michael Richard of the mic. So Owen and I have probably Another 17 issues. That to to work through that was the response. believe we reposted another document just to get Mhmm. I some some you know, put another line in the sand. And, he and I were trying to, you know, bite off of couple a week. Or a day, but, I guess we got we got slower. So, but, I think we'll we'll finish that off the end of next week. Yeah. Thanks. Oh, yeah. And Sorry, Rob? So that one Mahesh, obviously. Yeah. Of course. And actually any of the will go across to now, think all that will end up with with Mahesh the keeping database voucher, I still think it's worth it in the working group. Until the jdavis voucher, I think it's worth keeping the working group until I is probably better. I don't know. I will try and look at you know, if I can over the next couple of days, we can find time to at least get the review done for that one."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:06",
    "text": "We, I think we would just wanted to show that, you know, We we've we've we've we've we've we've tried to cross the, you know, really all the stops in the working group finished and and resolved Michael, I think, was also suggesting I should try to So, some of the amount of work that we've been investing by all these wonderful open and closed, GitHub issues, which I try to put in the columns here. So, I, I won't bother you with the numbers, but I think that some of these documents that really, had had significant amount of work done before, you know, the they moved on, since I 118. Yeah. Also submitted. So, that also is waiting for AD review from Mahesh. Which I think is, Happy in the last 2 days of freedom? So Right. So then, working group, documents in working group or working group last call. That's Brucey PRM. Constrained voucher, constraint joint proxy, So, Bruceky PRM, I think we're going to hear of it, what I think, high level, the status was that I captured here that, the shepherd had done a review part 2. And another pass, 3 to come. So, we're expecting that to be passed to ISG before ITF120. Constraint voucher and constraint proxy. Not sure if ESCO wants to say something more about that work was just recently since IETF 118 restarted, there are things that we would need move over to the, brewski discovery, and, and otherwise, catch up and do more review of this because they been dormant for, because we worked on the other documents for maybe 1 or 2 years now. Any any more con comments from you, Escal,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "yeah, maybe for constraint, join for see, I'm not currently an author on that. Although I could maybe, become one there's quite some work to do still. Mhmm. So maybe that's up the working group to consider that or Mhmm. So I think that's a TBD for one of us chairs to to to send a request and if nobody has objections, and we can add him. If I got the process right from Michael Michael Rich and the Mac again. So one of the authors Peter is adamantly that he's really retired and panels has moved companies several years ago, his cycles to build spend on this. It would be lovely to have another, author or at least just someone else who can, take some time on So that. That'd be great. Constant joint proxy. Yep. I'll I'll put that in the to do in the notes. For us chairs to send out that requested for the working group Okay. Thank you. Right. So in the working group, what do we still have? RFC 8366 this. So, yeah, if I hand up Sorry. What's O'Brien. have I my Had my hand up. that. Yeah. That was Oh, sorry about the other screen. Sorry. I'm I'm Okay. Just need wanted to say, I don't think you permission from the working group to add an author I think that's something that chairs can just do to be on lockdown. A long time since I read my, Working with Chezmare. We'll put No. I think you can just do it. Okay. Cool. Thanks. I'm always happy not to do any bureaucracy that is not mandatory. Right. Go back. Right. So RSC 836"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "best we're going to talk in the working group about it even though I think Michael and I as a co authors, didn't get to write really good, slides for that. But, yeah, so there are a couple of, important decisions we need to make, and we're starting to also discuss them outside of the working group. So that's that's for that slot. Bruskey Discovery, we we we had an adoption call, after IETF 118. So that was adopted. I haven't, unfortunately, since today. When, the time, to, post a 00 working group dev, open up. So I'll I'll do that, during this week when I find time so that we have Bruski discovery 00. And, Let's let's call it 24. Thank you. Okay. Present. Okay. Buck in slide. Discovery. Okay. And then we've got the network, service auto deployment so tentatively, I put it into parking position, any kind of, solution. I think you said that, that I had kind of, the AI open provide more productive feedback was there? Yes. The, as As far as I remember, you know, you'll give us some Private review as a document she heard And, based on that, we, produce 5 version But after that, we We failed to have more communication with you, whether the new version such as you or what we should do to do next that's why we stopped there for a while. And, Last time I call you, some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "early December. Yeah. You said you may have time to do that February or March. So we are still waiting But, I believe 1 or 2 runs communication with you would work out some future work. Right? Yep. Yep. Okay. So I put that on the to do list. Down at the bottom of the notes as well. For me. Thank you. Right. So those were the, working group documents And then is there anything else in the slide deck here? Thought I had Strange. Oh, wait a second. Takes long, Sorry. The the slides are slow. So just just a reminder, right? So we're we're always welcoming new work especially for, non risky areas. We're going to have, 2 presentations today on that. And, yeah, it's always good if if if if new work is meaning that we may need more time in the working group to do that early enough, not the deadline of submission, but at the deadline of putting in, slot requests for, for the working group to meet, right? Otherwise, it will just, get time that is left over from, from the ongoing working group time. Okay. So one more, FYI that I stumbled across, we'll, we'll have this IoT directorate and with, you know, more of the Bruski and other work in animal maybe of interest to IoT that it's actually good, three times a year call to listen in. Their, their status updates from all the working group chairs about the IoT related working groups. So I've always been putting in, this stuff, for anima in that, and they also have the notes. So the direct read itself is closed, but, you can read all the emails. They, they sometimes also have, debriefs from the industry that they organize So, if if any of your animal work is related to IoT, then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "the directorate also for any other you know, IOT work you're doing in the IITF, might might be interesting to observe, that mailing list IoT directorate and and listening to these calls before the IETF start Okay. So that's the, chair slides If there are no more questions on any know, you know, questions on robotics or so, then let's go to the agenda. One more. I've just, getting some audio from, David. So maybe if if he's leasing, Ah, thanks. That's that's Sure. Okay. So the first would be one update on Brooski from, David. Yes. Pick an audio. Can you share the slides yourself, or do you want me to share them if you have them at hand, it would be nice if you can send you them. And I think they officially in the list. Oh, yeah. You can share them as easily as I can. I think there is no difference anymore, not sure. Let me see. The stop sides. Share slides, post key status, conference selection, Okay. Okay. Yeah. Looks good. Thanks. I basically just have two slides to give an update on PAE, which is about adding alternative enrollment protocols to except, apart from EST, which is already there, and we are focusing on CMP. So next slide, please. You know, as a little recap, last IITF in Prague, we had a very good, side meeting of the the animal design team. To sort out the last remaining, the open issue which was how to address, the discovery or, yeah,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "letting, clients know about enhanced feature sets offered by, Nebraska registrar. And we have found a very good solution that all this is a pretty general problem. It should be solved in a and and then document of its own, which is discovery as, Toll has already mentioned earlier today. And, until there's a available, we wrote now in the Bruce Geretext that a specific service name like Bruceki's, register CMP, can be used as an interim solution. So with this solution in place, we updated respective sections in the text. And then, to our list, finished his his, shepherd write up. And this was just before Christmas. So He was able to sneak this as a Christmas present to the AD just before It's what happened since then. They were just some minor, improvements that were requested by the sector review from very Lynn labor. Incorporated dose. Also, Toreless had given some suggestions for further as manner improvements, we also did And then we had a second round of simulations internal Review. Is also brought up some minor editorial improvements And we also found that some, references that we were using could be updated answers also. Done. So meanwhile, we are at version 10 of the document. Any questions, thoughts on this here?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "Yeah. Mike. Michael Richards and the mic. To had a conversation, during the hackathon, that essentially suggests to me that There is, an interesting new use case, which is where It's all transported over USB key rather than HTTP or Bluetooth BTLE, and, haven't had a chance to figure out whether that means any actual changes to this document. It may mean 0 But, I wasn't if it was if that works, it it's a fairly big use case. Or the target. I don't wanna go into it till I've written it up But, I just wanted to mention that it seemed to be a useful thing So I see 2 aspects here. One is then that Bruce usually, assumes a TLS connectivity but CMP does not. It it works over any transport, including sneakernet, Yes. So That's what I yeah. That's what I that's what I believe we're I just I have to convince myself that that that that that that it's the case. And so that's what I just wanted to mention. I think it don't need any changes, but I need to convince myself. That's the case. And, I'll I'll try to do that this week. Thanks. Thanks. Then I think we can go to the next slide. Which does a wrap up of what has been done. So we have been had working with us, like, call it a year, back pretty exactly than with the young vectors update and sector update. And, to mention, finalization after a feature set discussion, ship it right up, and for the reviews and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "Now the status is still being in AD review yeah, Rob was nice that you're coming up Yeah. I'm I apologize for not getting this, done before I step down. I had a big pile of not like, region of our pallet dotcom sort of large number of pages to get through. Over the last few months of that sort of water. This has been behind those, and that sort of held it up. I would still try and get comments I I don't know what else to try and review it this week. I probably your comments will come via Mahesh I'll give the review to him and then you'll have opportunity to book it as well. So I'll have slots review. I just have both way through. So apologies for that. Thank you. Yes. That's also it from my side. Thanks, yeah, for attention and your comments. Alright. Anything else? Okay. Men, I think we're switching over to Stefan can I share? S You're in. Hi. Good morning. Good afternoon. Nope. So, I would like to give a short update on Buskey PRN. To collection responder mode, So it's in version 12 now. We had the last version, discuss during our ATF 118. Was version 10, 10, And we had some changes in between or some some enhancements in between. For next slide, please. So, the main changes, so there there were no no real make good changes. Let's call it that way. So what we did after the the review well, for the discussion that we had on the animal design team, Is we included a DNS names, a service name definition? That was missing in the IANA part of the document to allow the discovery of the pledge by the registrar agent"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:04",
    "text": "so we assumed that this is somehow there, but we didn't flash it out explicitly. So we edit the IANA registration for that. Then we had also based on the discussion from the animal Design team, we had some frozen explanatory, You're sections or or explanations regarding the clarification of nomadic operation, So I put the service guy here with the stairs because, that stems from the from the use case that we have an offline connectivity between the and the registrar, and the service technician essentially uses something which we introduced in Rinsky PRM a while ago. Which is called the registrar agent, and that one is being used to carry the the messages between the the registrar and and the patch back and forth. In addition to that the pledge and bruise gift urine became the the server instead of just the client, So that was being clarified. So we have some some more information included there. We also clarified the verification of rep CA search responses, that was necessary of wrapping the CA search responses as sorry, because, to register agent in our case, is basically used to to carry over the information from the registrar Not relying on on an end to end TLS connection. That was the reason to put in some additional wrapping signature on the CA search. That are provided via the registrar agent down to the patch. So that clarification was included, then we had the second part of Shepherd to review so Matias, who is Shepherd for that document split his, shepard review three parts, and we finalized the second part which, yeah, essentially led to to structural improvements of the documents. So we did some terminology alignments throughout the document and also provided a better red line for,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:04",
    "text": "the steps what follows after the other following a moron. Structured approach in the document because there were certain leftovers And now the Texas, much more improved So that was, focusing on on the complete section 7. That describes the call flows between the pledge over the registration and and then to the back end. Registrar, and then also the Mazda integration. So, in addition, we we decided to change some of the prototypes that we had included on the document that were provided in Jason c CDDL. To have some kind of aligned approach regarding those prototypes. So that means whenever young is not available Then we now utilize CDDL for describing the prototypes. Yeah. I said, we we did based on the shepherd radius on terminology also for further editorial updates, also, reference into the text have been Address. So that led to version 12 of the document. So, from our point of view, it's, Again, it's it's stable. We are waiting for the To next slide, please, we we're waiting for the 3rd part of the previewed by the shepherd so that means we addressed all of the issues came from the working group last call, which was done before team, Also, the IOT early review was addressed, and the sector early review was addressed. So what what needs to be done from from our side is incorporating the comments from the last part of the shepherd review and the shepherd write up are we Need, once the text is finished and then all the prototypes are stable, we need to update the examples that are provided, the annex of the document to match the latest state of the definitions for sending the document And once those two things are being done,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "the document is ready for a review. So and as always, we are happy if if Sarah's interest in interop testing. Yep. Yep. So functionality is is implemented proof of consent implementations are available And if you have interest in doing interrupt testing, that Please address the also of the broth. And that's Actually, it Yep. Thank you. Very much. Okay. Did the the the shepherd Thomas get give any idea how when when he will have time to to the 3rd round. We haven't got any explicit, announcement he's doing the third round. But, I think since we we just recently before the the last or before this IETF meeting, had, several sessions to incorporate changes, I think we will use the momentum and basically work on that further on to to finalize it. So Okay. Right. So, can stop that. So we have a slot here for, RFC 8366 biz. I want voucher, which is a dependency for, some of the brewski drafts we're talking about so far. And, Boy, I think both haven't done slides. I mean, I can start saying what I see high level of of of the next step that we need to do and Michael, you wanna add to that? So just verbally Does that sound good? So We we had a, Chevy review, that was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "suggesting some, directions for, for changing the, the end being used as because the the the extension methods we've been trying to use were supposed to be not ideal. I was, reviewing, that. And, I think one of the changes we could do what be put potentially, you know, viable insofar as that, we figured out from the Yang see that it's must create exactly the same encoding as the other option. Whether or not that means it's, it's a good thing for us to do. But, we're going to stick with yang, then, I think I would at least, like to make the proposal between the author to the group and we'll we'll review the, the difference and, and see if, if, if that makes sense in our opinion but I think the larger question is, whether given the absence after many years of tooling that can actually compile the yang that we have for the purpose that we need to the question really is, and, and, and, there is almost nobody else that seems to be using Yeng, these east west protocols, and, and, and, hence, also the absence of, the toolchains. The question is whether we should stay with Ying or recognize the opportunity that we could go to the CDDL given that really seeming the only need, Jason and Seabor as a transports for the voucher itself. Which may or may not be true if, Kent or so has different opinion about that, in the future. So, And so at least I think we we wanted to investigate what what what people think about the option of going to CDDL. As a specification set of Yang for for the voucher so that that was the question that I had. Michael Ergeson, that Mike So Kent has only minutes ago, told me of One way to get yanglin to a process our stuff that doesn't seem to be to,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "cause it to to to be too far from what we think it is. So I haven't obviously tried it quite yet. And so that that at least would would 1st of all make us a shirt that we, first of all, what we've done so far, we haven't broken anything. Alex has proposed something else. I don't remember what it is. My reaction at the time was, but I have no way of knowing whether it will be the same. But perhaps, this also will let me evaluate whether or not that would be this is different, and that would be a good improvement The other thing and is that there's a a proposal from what, Benoit and some other people. I don't remember who Pardon me? Jon. Yeah. 2 For a full include mechanism, to Yang, which I think is more close to what we actually were after at the time. But I'm not sure. The problem is it's still an I an individual ID. I would think that we would be adding, you know, 6 to 10 months at minimum if we did that way. Okay? Maybe more. Minimum. I said minimum. Right? Okay. So I'm not enthusiastic about this. I think we're 2 years late on this already. But Recognizing this is 8366bis. And that the process for doing more yang was to have this, this, or Was it Tris? Try. There's another word for that. Anyway, ter, that's what it is. Tur. Carson would would have known that would have corrected me instantly if I got it wrong. That maybe that's the time to think about it. The second thing is that the trend as far as I can understand, which is after us"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "within Yang Modules and opt to WGs is that they just have one RFC with the yang, Now an RSC with all the other text, and that they only revise the r the Yang RFC when they update the The The Yang, and not the other one. Correct me if I'm wrong, Mister Eighty. Sorry. What? Yeah. I'm the same way. Right? So so So, typically, there was one document I know a shepherd at both of them. It was, I don't know, it was. And there was one RFC that was literally just the yang was hardly anything else. This was the yang module for blah blah blah. And the other one says, this is all about blah blah blah. And so the idea was that it wouldn't have to revise both RFCs in order to update the A. Okay. So I think I'm so, spitting the angle away from the protocol, it's working with that fine and sensible, and yes, as as often needs often done. I thought you're sort of suggesting that the just the yang module text itself would be in one draft, and the description tech around that young module would end up being in another draft, and that doesn't happen. So all the sorts of corresponding information about about this is how it's modeled set up and this is how it's structured and things like that happens to be in the draft. The last thing to say is I have ambitions, not as an AD anymore, but try and see if we can optimize the process to try and get more yanks be not in the drafts at all and be on GitHub and just references to them. Woah. Yes. That would be what? Yeah. So that'd be wonderful. So so the question is, should we try to adopt that model with 8366 biz today. Yes. I can't remember what's in the document as in it descone both the protocol Yes. I I think it'd be it would be sensible to try and the 2 and say, this is the protocol definition, and he's the associated data model to go with it. Put those in 2 separate documents. Probably good at it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:04",
    "text": "Kent Watson. Co author. Sorry. Very informal here. I just wanted a quick clarification. The voucher draft doesn't define anything protocol ish. It's a it's a voucher, which is like are a fact. A document. It describes the document. So that can be out. Right. But we do explain how to sign it We have examples of it in Jason. Probably seaborne now. Okay? And we have some other text about you know, how it kind of what it why it's there and what does it do and stuff like that? So but but my reading of And I it was a Benoit close. Draft that I remember I shepherded and there were 2 documents. And one of them was literally just the Yang module. But maybe a little bit of abstract. And the other one was, this is how it's all used. Could go find the RFC to RFCs, if you like, for example. And, And the the it was explained to me as this means we can rev the Yang module they would actually opening up the rest of the text to, you know, We're gonna review it again and life has changed and whatever. So if if someone needs to change the Yang module, don't have to go through that quite as heavy a process. So so you took if you're taking this up like ISIS, then the protocol is specified in one RFC and the data models in another RFC. But for cases where, the work isn't that big. Then you end up putting the 2 together, and that's fine, I think. So from what Kent described, it sounds like the split would be somewhat arbitrary. So I, I wrote down my option, my my my transliteration of this into the notes. I see it. It's a digital artifact, the RFC itself, to describes the yang model for it and some basic operations on it like signing and other stuff."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "But the protocols that use it are various RFCs. Right? There's one in Netcon from Kent. There is, 8995 from us, and then there are all these other new drafts that we're trying to push through that are using it. And each of them has a different subset of, optional elements in the digital art effect that they're using to achieve their different purposes. It sounds like it's right at the moment, I think. It sounds like keeping it where it is and not splitting is the right answer. Okay. Yes. Uh-uh. I concur. Because if there were a desire to update the Yang, then that motivation, how you use it, etcetera, would have to also be uploading to the other document Please be updating 2 documents. Anyway. Yeah. Exactly. So I don't see the particular adventures to having the 2 documents That was 9417, a service assurance model, and intent. And then there was 9418 which was essentially, yeah, there's, like, 6 or 7 paragraphs, actually. Before the then the rest of the the ending lodge. Right? So that's the example that I saw. And and and and I don't know if that's I don't know how well that applies to us because they do, as you say, have a whole protocol and so process. And then it was a yang module for this this, Michael. So I don't I don't have I'm I'm not particularly picky. Way or the other, think we're gonna revise it again. Not next week, but, you know, Before 2026? We'll revise it again. And perhaps by then, There'll be a better process. So I guess my con and and the other point is that the proposal that Alex had maybe we should just do that then. Yeah. And not now. And I'm sensitive to the fact that I don't wanna start changing things at the last minute. Right? Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "Right. So sorry. Mahesh, took a couple comments. I think the general sentiment of separating the yang model from the draft. And rubbing it separately from the RFC. Now handling it as a more lightweight process, I completely agree. Just have to get more consensus and ideas that that's the way we wanna do it. Don't have it as yet. We seem to insist that the document has currently currently and model, we but, We can I can hope that that will change? So But, my question was more related to the statement at fullness that you made as that there's no east west protocol that uses Yang and therefore cannot we cannot use Yang I'm not sure if I agree with that statement or there's anything in the Yang language that prevents that. His first interaction So maybe you might want to clarify what Yeah. I mean, that that was just me trying to figure out what is really the best, practice in the IETF. And, you know, we've got 100100 of I would call Northsouth. Protocols, right? And, here, it's not even a protocol. It's a digital object that is being used within other protocols. Right? And, that particular, use I haven't seen it all in the IETF being specified in Yang. Right? And, so that would mean that it almost sounds very logical that we might have problems with toolchains or, you know, with, other people finding the use of yang very enlightening. When everybody else for example would rather do these things in CDDL or ASCII art right, which I think are the 2, you know, common practices we now have for this type of you know, digital artifacts in east west protocols. Right? That's that's how we specify them today. Try My point is, Yang is a data modeling language. the widest. Doesn't it it's not tied to a particular protocol. Right? If you're trying to model and a piece of data that it's an artifact but it's a protocol"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:04",
    "text": "I think Yang is perfectly capable doing. Yeah. It's not about capability. It's about what's the best current practices in the IETF, right? I don't want to be a sole one person paying on something that nobody else does in the ATF because that I don't think, you know, improves the value of, of, of, of, of using that So if, if there is a big trend and, you know, we were very, very early on, we would welcoming to to see what the new stuff is that the IETF know, modeling site provides us. So we adopted it. But, you know, if if now something like CDDL is the better, choice going forward, right, than and as, as Michael said, right, We may have more updates doesn't necessarily mean that we need to do any changes right now if, if we're really feeling We really wanna get cold out now. We have this stuff, in 8366. Pretty, pretty ready. And if we don't like many things of it, we can push that discussion to a next draft, but at least, you know, these were the things that we started in, in, in the working group teams to discuss about. So we wanted to bring it up in, in this meeting, especially when we have two of you here. I was going to ask how much tooling is the the process is ASCIIars. Effective way to generate code. But but, actually, I think I think your your comment's sort of valid really that I don't think it's Yang's primary goal or use case. So I think it's a valid question would be asking is, is Yang the best choice for this? And I don't know where the answer is in some cities, because of where you are now, Is it worth deviating changing you got implementations, then that's where we're gonna add cost to them. Going forward, I don't have any any as to whether you should change this or not at this stage, I would say that I think the IETF, the world, could benefit from a more generic data modeling language. Like, a new version of ASIN 1, it's not ASIN 1, it's more than YAN 1, because I think YAN has some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "has lots of good properties about modeling stuff, but probably better than CDDL. Sorry. Yeah. Guys, need a microphone. Okay. I can't watch them again. Just quickly, the Vouch Yep. Yep. Yep. All good? Sounds like it. Yeah. Do you wanna bring it to the microphone or Yeah. I a customer. I just heard the word picture. And and react it to this We have lots of data modeling languages and lots of spaces. So you can use w3c schema for data model. And a lot of people like that. Because they can sell tools that you need to do that because it's really hard to do perhaps. And it's in 1, it's in the same oil public. a So, for really simple artifact like the one that that we are discussing here. Something like CGI works very well. If you want to do something like COVID with it, yes. You need more infrastructure and then grab grilling that at the moment. But, Yeah. So my recommendation would be to government with CDL here, but, of course, I'm slightly except stepping back to the microphone. When voucher was first created and recall, it was, it was actually part of the SCTP draft. Mhmm. when Anima was chartered, And it was, being there was a discussion about that. And I, you know, extracted it from the STP draft, and we made it to 8366. As far as Expedia goes, that it was a north south protocol, or the artifact was intended to be, it was not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "you know, in animal to east west, but in in STP, it's definitely going south. And that was never an issue. For us in that regard. Was gonna say something practical, Litcho. Which is a s the s x structure that, think Michael's referring to. If you just, want to compile with Ping. You just replaced the string s x structure with the string container. And then validate your document. And that works with PA. The other comment I'll make is that a simple, and maybe we're too far into the process work for this, but, the original 8366 to find a top level container. And a possible, fix would be to take that container, make it a grouping, and then create another container that uses the grouping So it was structurally identical to what it was before. But now you have a grouping that could be used in reference by, another document So you've left, the original voucher alone and then you can do whatever you want with that grouping. I'm giving up, I can just write sentence container grouping container group. Sorry. back Michael Richardson the mic. So we actually try some of that. Right. And I you know, talked over a year ago about the results and it works. In one dimension, but not in 2. So we can't mix and match 2 extensions to get a composite of that. It doesn't doesn't work at results in in in, overlapping things. But that's why we've pulled it all back in there. That was the thing that pushed us there. Okay? Having said that, Yang has been interesting. I'm not opposed to it. Did it help any Coding? No. I don't think any of us coded with a had a tool that took yang and produced"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "code. Okay? So, from that point of view, Switching has no uh-uh programmer cost. The cost of being act was a cost because the programmers had to understand what was there. I think that probably most of them look at the examples go, oh, this is a dictionary this is a dick inside of a dick. And here's are the keys. And That was it. Right. Okay. Wasn't anything really complicated in the cebar case, you know, you have to figure out that the keys are Delta is not values and they mapped to something else, but that's a particular aspect of that coding. We didn't have a tool that produced this. So moving away from Yang has no impact on our code or our tooling, we weren't using Moving to CDDL, there are some tools in some CDDL tools that can produce some tools, header files, and stuff like this. Maybe there's more I don't know about, but it's unlikely that we're about to revise our process, To do that, we're probably still gonna essentially I don't know what the right word is. Open coded You know, I read the document, I write the code, I'm not not pro I don't have anything translating it directly. And this is why Kent is reasonably concerned, and I am as well. That that any things that we change to the Yang code with the way that we express it, Yang data to SX structure do not actually change the serialization. This is what we're concerned about, okay, that everything that was valid before is still valid. Okay. And, As long as that's the case, we can change the way that we represent it twelve times before Christmas and no one cares because it's documentation feature, not a not a not a coding feature. Unfortunately, Okay? Unfortunately, that that's the case. Right? So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "my conclusion, my takeaway, Kent has given me the formula for how I can now validate the actually my new our new document serializes same as the old document, which is a good thing, and we can see whether or not the shepherd comments about a different way of doing it. Which I didn't understand at the time. I was just like, oh, this is different, and I have no way of proving I have no way of proving that it serializes the same. If it serializes the same, identically, then There will be good comments. And maybe we'll apply it. And, if it actually serializes differently, then maybe maybe that goes that commentary will actually tell me how to fix it, or we just will say thank you very much. We're not going there. So my take again is that we should revisit this when we do 8366 ter And, figure your day with them. Right? It's It's it's as a it's over we spent more than a year mucking around with this, and I don't wanna spend any more time on this. And I think we have and and we've basically allowed all the other documents to progress forward to the point where we're we we would block on this document now period. So we don't wanna make it worse. So I I I forgot Yeah. about that. They that you know, all the time we spent on trying to get this young stuff working and, kind of having the obvious guy only jump in 1 year later after we exhausted all the people who give us a good answer. So so I think that that's a good reason to call it quits for, for the fur, for the biz and, just finish it up and anything that we structurally want to improve for. So we can do for the 3rd round. That's, Kent again, and I agree. But, just quickly the full embed draft. I think that's the one that, Michael was referring to her earlier. Did just read it, while"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "We're waiting for this discussion to start. It actually looks quite good to me. I like it a lot. So I think we'll probably progress in a month. Hopefully in time for sure. Okay. Okay. Can I call it quits on this slot? Sheng already, last last time got kicked out, with, his, this proposal that he had on the, first non working group slot. So, you share the slides yourself, Shane? Oh, I would like you to share slides. Okay? Let me see. Thank you. Hours. Okay. Here is a new proposed to work non risky work. So you you would like it, I guess. Next page, please. Grasp, what designed as a generic and extensible protocol for management and operation from the very beginning. It covers all numerical operation behaviors without depends on any specific objectives it is powerful and extensible because, it's get rid of the, dependency on the you know, specific objectives. There was a lot of protocols, found into, very certain specific objectives. However, we think, Grasco still have some dependents here and the, it is based on and, ipv6 those are very heavy for,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "resource constrained devices, particularly users IoT device is very a cheap, hatwares. So Oh, And as we all know, TCP does not perform very well. When the network connections are dynamic to change, or unstable. That will happen very often in various communication environment. And, also, TCP is time consuming for creating the new, connections next page is it was there for, On the Get back. You you jump one slice. Sorry. No. Many stripes do you have? It's four slides. Next. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Sorry. Therefore, here here away, to propose to work on our network, network version of grasp in order to become that way, we can shorten the fix to the field. It was designed to, most for. So it was, sixteen bits. For each fields but for most of time, 8 beats would be, not enough. In order to remove TCP dependency, we can put in or an optional embedded, the variability check and, introduce the response model instead of the TCP shake and only procedure, Also, by removing IP dependency, the newly proposed network to version of grasp can be extensible to comply with any other particles, economy,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:04",
    "text": "New York protocols. It can also work with UWP, and QUIC, etcetera. This proposed work, would intended for, experimental. Expect risks. We have lots of action, formal document here. Because we would like to hear their opinions from Anna First is this proposal in chat of animal working group, soon. If yes, is animal working group interested in it, I save both. Rob? The speaker's an ID next couple of days, Henry. I I think the answer to the first question is probably no. I don't don't see this as being in scope for the existing chart in animal, you'd have to re charter. To do this work. Because otherwise, there's a high risk that if this got through to the ISG, they would, refuse to publish. They're turning back to work and say you need to change the charter. So I I think your options here would be to try and re charter everything is necessary. And again, I don't think think that's your only option here is to re is try and reach out to the working group if you wanted to try and do this work. Yeah. Okay. Get to that as a working group chair. Yeah, we'll we'll see how you know, the work group interesting to or not I mean, if, you know, as I put down here, on the slides. If the answer of any of this above question is negative. Another option I can do as a potential author is changed to be, not with gen generic, second segeline verticals in that way, it would be more general, operation management as well as our own support economic network only. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "Of course, that means I'm not going to do this work in the animal working group. I probably need to go the ops director, working group, I guess. But even in that case, I don't think up say WG would take this because this is too much, as that process we've described is too big. So that either needs to be buffed or or need, again, we need to work recharter of offset of the g. I don't think there's any existing working group. That says that this sort of change with this sort of sizes in scope. Think it had would have to be a boss or reach out to That's just my opinion. Because it doesn't match your 2 day stone. Okay. I searched the the ops error working group, which is some some working group can do any work in the ops, error, but none of the specific work group can work I did Oh, Well, I think, you know, ops AWG is is is also highly overloaded I mean, we'll just take Rob's answer. We are you still are you in the queue? Otherwise, Brian? Yeah. I did at one point look at what would be involved in making My current implementation of GRASP run over TCP of UDP, Probably because Dolphin, Missus of interest, of interest, long time ago. And My conclusion was that it was actually Not necessarily going to end up with less overhead. Because it turns out that if you look at all the places where You simply assume TCP works. Ricus. Normally TCP works, the and had to put in a failure case. And what did you do about the failure? And How much state did you have to keep"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "about the UDP data grounds that you'd send and haven't got a reply to and so on. It looked to me as if the code both even if it didn't go through the TCP code, would still be quite a bit longer for each packet than it it is At the moment, with TCP doing all that stuff for you. So I remain to be convinced It's switching away from TCP. Actually saves you anything unless you have an extremely reliable work and never loses packets even when it's in a middle of a failure, which of course is a Consideration for at least for a network management protocol that has gotta work even when the network is fairly broken. So I have my doubts. I I'm not saying it shouldn't be investigated. But I have some doubts about it. I also come in something say something that Michael has already put in the chat, which is most of the time, we don't send 0s large numbers, Because we're using Sable So the On the wire, the large fields, you know, maybe 32 bit fields. Don't take 30 two bits they take less. But that's just, know, general observation about any protocol using Siebel. But, you know, the best way to take this forward would be in my opinion, an implementation followed by documentation followed by above. Then we'd see. K. Okay. I mean, actually, this IP is really expensive, but colleagues who keep the, TCP 10 of for a funding. know, for most of the IoT devices, You it's memory, just be able to affordable maybe, 8 to 10 TCP connection, paralyzed. So that's really expensive for TCP"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "particularly those IoT devices may only know, we said 1 or 2 package per hour and So, you know, if from the beginning, they don't have to have the TCP stack, and that would be, you know, ideas for for them. Okay. Yep. I I I I know that's true. And, I don't know quite what difference it would make in the code path. That's all I'm saying. It's it's some extents, miss, an experimental question. So do an experiment. Yeah. Thing to point Hi, Sean. This is Ben speaking. In in general, personally, I believe that, we have such requirement to but not necessarily lightweight, but maybe Just to decouple. Such thin, as you mentioned in the slides, example, TCP or even l3 connectivity when we're doing some internal work, we found that There are many scenarios that doesn't support Epi receipts or or even done a support L3 routing. So personal matter, I I very much want to see we can remove such dependency and, to make the grass more adaptive tool, different scenarios. Yeah. That are general comments. So I per person, I would to see like maybe a draft to come up with more details. Yeah. Thanks. Customer and just, an observation Almost everything you said Really points to Colette? Because that that doesn't have the c 10k. Problem. You can have any number of of UDP relationships, open with COAP or whatever package, protocol you want to run."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "And it's really very lightweight. So maybe you should examine that whether it's, possibly solves your problem. And it's Well, even DTLS has retransmissions. Right? So the only thing we want to, get his reliability, right? So we'll we can have just, you know, grasp over over DTS, right, I mean, we, we, we need probably some security layer, anyhow. Oh, the detail is protocol has free transmissions. I I thought to understand that even in the normal data, not not just the handshake, but even the data afterwards has retrans Yep. I'd Am I wrong, seriously? I I I I all in magic. I'm holding the handshake as fragmentation. Okay. Help I was, I was wondering about, you know, the, the stream cipher. Impact of packet loss and so on. So that's why was Thinking that might be true. What I think I heard, but, maybe maybe know, there was a mis transmission meant only indeed. So just have a look at for it. I think you will interest. Okay. Can I just say that, one of the problems with DTS, I thought, was that it doesn't do multicast and that is a bit of a problem Sure? For grasp type protocols. Yeah. Of course. I could mention that, COAmp has an alternate security layer, which does not do multicast Alright. So again, Look at the work of the cover info. Okay. So I think we're reaching the end of the session, and I think I'll have to skip the, the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "the last, The last slot I was proposing. We have an ongoing call for an interim So I think we have some, some pot potential, topics to talk about, things that that we've over in, but primarily also trying to see that we get everybody together to see that we streamline closing on the open issues. Michael was proposing that, should look in interim any any more, points you would raise on that. Otherwise, we can try to take it to the list to set to set up, the the schedule and So, find find the mail look up for your availability in, last week of April. And then we can, continue the work there. And, Other than that, I would say in person, see you in, Vancouver, hopefully. More, people, people, And, sharing anything last closing words? Okay. Cool. Thank you very much. Yeah. Thank you. Next time, can you come in here earlier, please?"
  }
]
