[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "i've briefly exchanged minutes with klaus and he might drop by between 16 30 and 1700 so we managed to do transport indication um around then that might be helpful all right yeah then we can probably swap co-op attacks and transport indication to be on the safe side well that's agenda bashing uh okay hello everyone let's just wait a couple of minutes more with people sting joining as usual i'm getting coffee good afternoon good afternoon to you kirsten"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:08",
    "text": "thank you christian for helping take a minute uh okay being three past we can start uh welcome everyone to this interim meeting of the co-working group i am marco tioca my co-chair is jaime humanites as usual please be aware that the note well applies get familiar with it if you're not already and it's not just about ipr it's also about color conduct especially so be nice and professional with one another and that same the agenda for today includes uh the usual round of updates on ongoing work in the two most advanced qualcomm documents and then href and coral and then we have number of uh documents with recent activity on the list and the data tracker"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "attributes for which bill has just resubmitted a revision uh transport indication uh which kristen is also working on with some activity on the list also today and more in the background and then we bring back a document that we also had in the agenda at the previous um interim meeting co-op attacks so we've had some bashing already swapping transport indication and co-op attacks any further bashing you want to propose for this agenda today you know then we can start with the initial round of updates uh on the curved documents so that would be kirsten i guess i haven't seen any particular activities on the list on this but maybe something is happening on the background carson are you actually back yes and what part are we in uh we have just started with car conf if you have any update to share okay so we just had a one hour meeting um between the some of the authors of the young sibo documents and some area directors and some of the young luminaries and we were discussing how to do the yangcatalog.org support for sid files and about halfway through the discussion today um we decided we really have to write this up in the corset document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "and this is a pretty substantial amount of information that needs to go in there so it looks like we will need to do another last call maybe just an itf last call um let's see and yeah so the the plan is to write up what was discussed today into a pull request on the corset uh document and get buy-in from from all the parties and that might help us clear the discuss sorry i have told rob wilton that i think the normative reference from yang sibo to corset is a mistake and we should get rid of that and he said let's talk about that so at least he didn't outright disagree so let's see maybe that is a way to get at least the young zebra document through the process but the the main point is uh we we will have uh another update to the sid document we will have another process uh round on this maybe even the telechat date and uh but that that will allow us a significant uh jump ahead because the information that is in corset essentially was negotiated with ayanna the ayanna itself doesn't have the the the budget to actually do the server-side support uh for sit um and yank catalog org does have the budget so we we now have a new"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "partner to to talk to and that of course means we will have new text in the document sounds like a very good plan uh thanks uh on the possible itf lost call i think francesca yeah had a plan to compare uh the diff and take a decision on that but that will come later okay so we should expect the pull request anytime soon right i think that's it on this document cluster thank you uh okay if we move on to href and coral i i did see some activity on the github at least on on some details on href we're still in that process where we we are adjusting our implementations that takes longer than it should not because it's particularly hard to do but because it's just hard to find time uh for it um yeah so we will have to continue this for a little longer okay right we have some more one more interim meeting next week uh just a team expectation uh can we expect a revision for itf 113 that we can consider for working group last call or would you need more time well that's at least an aspirational goal okay thanks hope we can make it all right uh i can think of actual updates on coral happening uh during the last two weeks or so uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "christian do you have anything you want to share on that no sorry no problem i know the work is continuing anyway all right uh so that will conclude the initial round of updates now the main next presentation will be on conditional attributes and bill has just submitted a new version and should join any minute to present it we have the slides already and i have a preference of discussing transport indication uh somewhere in between 1630 and 17 ct to accommodate also some points from klaus uh so until bill joins i think we can rather move to uh co-op attacks instead i can move it up so uh there was a discussion at the previous uh intern meeting uh three weeks ago uh it was important to cover uh this kind of work but it was also important to to split in detail what was about the covering core and pretty much now and what instead was not and instead deserved more work from from a research point of view so the split happened according to to what discussed and now we have still the co-op attacks draft in core focusing on attack attacks against co-op while all the parts related to attacks using co-op including amplifications and used to be section 3 was now moved to a separate document in t2 trg so the split that was discussed happened and now we have a document focusing on what there seem to be consensus to work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "on here so uh unless there are any concerns left on this i think we can start a call for adoption on the list does anyone have any last-minute concern or taking this work as an informational document in the co-working group turn on so we'll start a two-week adoption call on the list all right and now i see bill on the roster hi bill hello hello welcome thank you thank you sorry i was a bit late uh no worries we did a bit of live agenda bashing yes and now it's actually perfect for for your presentation so um you can share the pdf yourself excellent yeah okay share this is my slide coming through yes i can see them so can i i hope everybody else sees them too all right um i think we can start so hello uh i'm bill sylvarajan and uh i'm the editor for the conditional attributes draft um that has been uh split from the dangling draft um so this is a quick status update of what's happened and uh what will possibly happen soon all right so um moving on the draft has basically moved um since the last interim meeting i attended was um in september so so the dark effect has moved on now from zero zero to zero to it's it's a fresh zero to just fresh out of the oven like half an hour"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "ago i submitted it to the uh using the submission tool so you might already see the mail on the mailing list the call meeting list to to explain that this has been done and uh i thought i will uh just let you know what has happened in on in drop zero two so so as usual we continue to incorporate feedback uh we receive updates and then correction clarifications uh there were three issues on github and um they are all closed they have not been resolved in this draft obviously it doesn't mean that there will be more issues in future but at least these three have closed and uh potentially there might be one or two coming up still well anyway uh just to see what has been resolved um we have discussed the the value of the band attribute uh in the conditional observed draft um how do we actually specify um or indicate um a band that contains um something that the the client would like to observe upon so um the value of the bread hang on this is this is not correct sorry yeah so uh please ignore the previous slides uh so this is the the resolved issue so the band uh is a boolean we used to be a boolean and um and the way it was used was um either we put band is equal to one and then the greater than and less than values but then the the question was whether its value is significant and and after the discussions we decided to go with the approach that uh the presence of the band query parameter is is enough and it should not actually have a value so in drop zero two um this is what's happened so ben does not have a value anymore it's just a query parameters as you can see in the second bullet point um the example with the temperature and um so that's that's good um of course now that raises the question"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "whether we should actually include some more guidance and what to do if uh if a server is um faced with a query where the query parameter does have a value so for example if it says band equals zero angry gt on some value and and lt some value or if it becomes then equals to one should we um accept that or ignore that or does anybody have any comments on how we go forward and so we generally have the problem with attributes that um have for instance integer values and if you set it to cook what do you do so this is not a new problem it just is so we we the the empty value is something we we haven't um defined very well i mean the the underlying problem is that we're using a term here attribute that is not really defined so maybe we should do something about that first and when we define the term attribute which is a query parameter that we are using in a particular way either by presence or by value then we can make some statement about that okay i'll write that down so that will clarify the next so the the key question now is is whether um if this is a known problem then perhaps it's best not to say anything more or it should be should we actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "explicitly address this issue if uh somebody has put that equals zero and then equals one i have to check the librarian to m um specifications and how they have actually defined it so that's one of the issues that i came in my mind but um this is something that perhaps as i said generally we are using options to do things in our documents and now that we're using three parameters in a particular way yeah i think it's a good idea to introduce a term uh for for using query parameters in this way and and i'm fine with the term attribute but maybe we should really just have a section called attributes that introduces that and that also can be referenced by other documents that may want to talk about query parameters okay all right take that on both any other comments okay i'll move on to the next slide um and then we also disco this hasn't been an ongoing discussion for a while about about proxies and um how they can interfere with the operation of this um of the conditional observed attributes um and i proposed this uh this uh text at the last meeting and um there was a slight modification it was proposed that the server uh instead of may use max age it should be should use and i don't think there was a very strong opinion either way so let's go with the should use so that that is now in the draft that has been added to zero two security considerations um at least uh there were 7252 and 7641 which is the uh the observed uh rfc"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "so i wanted to ensure that that these are actually addressed um i do not know if we actually um put any other text to describe the uh the attributes now but at least this is what we have um considerations this is i i decided to include this um please comment if you think this is necessary but i thought it would be good to consider whether we need a conditional attribute registry so that we can map all these parameter names to [Music] uh what they're supposed to do and um and then make it a bit easier so that anybody else who wants to include new parameters or new conditional attributes um could have an expert review do you think it's a good idea so is that a conditional attributes registry or is it an attributes registry um i thought it was conditional attributes so basically specifically for the core and observe so any other document that you need needs attributes will have to define their own strengths that's true yeah so yeah just rhymes with the theme that you should introduce attributes as a concept at the start and make it available to other documents as well okay is it is it does it make sense to start defining attributes kind of query attributes for general purpose use and in in a list i mean this is i i don't know the rfc um number by head but there is that one that talks about us not not interfering with the applications with the uri space and we can define for a particular application those attributes and yeah maybe maybe it makes sense for some to opt in and share that space but in general conditional observation and other things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "that use cool parameters might be orthogonal but yeah if this is if this is opt-in maybe that's a that's a good thing so we already had this this conflict with what was it 80 lifetime previously yes i think it's good to have a global register yeah yeah so that's that's what that's what compelled me to think about this as well because we did have this problem with less than and lifetime previously okay but um that's that's mostly um the the work that was done and um we will continue getting feedback like this this was very good feedback now we'll continue on uh i guess we are aging closer towards uh working group last call i hope to get one more version uh done by ietf113 and then get things ready thank you any more comments questions um just thinking about the topic of those uh that attribute registry a bit more if you really want this to be general pro if this develops into something general purpose it might update the rfc to be i don't know the number yet for resource directory uh and extend that because we have an attribute registry there for the various attributes we are using there and it might make sense to to swallow in that that's also true i'll take that on board maybe we'll do this offline christian is that okay with you sure sure okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:06",
    "text": "so bill thanks again i think if you produce an extra vision incorporating this last uh comments from today uh you can present it uh in vienna or at least at ipf113 somehow yeah that that feels like that should be indeed ready to move on with working group last call yep okay so you plan to what 10 online i guess oh yes i will i'm i wouldn't be going to vienna so i will be um i'm i've registered myself as a remote participant already yes okay so i count the new one one more presentation there and i mean you can give a quick overview again of today's presentation before touching the very last points in front of your brother audience yeah awesome thank you very much thank you i will stop sharing right which brings us to the last item on the agenda we are not precisely at 16 30 yet but i think christine you can start anyway and claus can join later on for discussion yep so this is um this is just a few slides of an older interim that i've [Music] picked into here so that we have a bit have something on the screen to talk over about um so just to get everyone on board this is about how do we reconcile that there might be a co-op server that has co-op addresses that uh resource that has resources both accessible on co-op and unquote over tcp how can that server advertise them both at the same time allow the client to switch over when the as the client sees fit um without"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "causing too much much breakage this is something that the core group has promised to provide about the time when those non-core uh one when core plus tcp was introduced and the current proposal that is sitting around in an individual draft of mine based on older discussion basically based on um bill's work uh bill and mert's work on protocol negotiation and some and some further discussion that we've had with also with klaus and inez this is suggesting that uh basically we're using the regular link format uh a resource uh announcement that we already use in in various places will also work just the same with coral and then um add add an extra statement that basically says here that everything that is co-hosted with this resource so especially the coffee machine top is available through a proxy at core plus tcp my own address and that with that proxy with that proxy transport you're still accessing the original uri with the extension that even the co-op even the proxy uri option that consumes like five five bytes or so on the wire might be removed in an add-on i've received two reviews so far on this from marco and from klaus thank you both for those um i've been working them into the into the editors copy this afternoon but there are three topics where i think the documents still where they pointed out things that need to be clarified um that is that even when we don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "want to because even when we don't send the uri the proxy uri option along which is this version of the mechanism it may look on the wire like urializing but actually both the server and the client can be perfectly aware of what the actual uri behind this is so even that is not really introducing you're realizing it might be preferable to some applications to think of it in terms of your analyzing but it's it can also be viewed in terms of introducing some context for that resource that is basically unpacking these options carson yeah i think the in the previous slide you said that the aliasing has to have server opt-in and let me yeah go ahead i'll come back to that and absolutely i'm just wondering about mixing provenances here so can we make sure that this statement about aliasing is actually originating from that server that is something that will depend a lot on the particular applications security model if the application requires that no one can even redirect their traffic and i wonder how they do that because they just accept uh accept um rooted advertisements uh unsecured dude ra messages but still if the application wants to be very sure that their traffic is not redirected then they'll have to place"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "the same requirements they do for all the links that feed into their action even to the point where it is a link that says there is a proxy if the application does not make such a requirement and prefers to use opportunistic proxies that might be around even though they could do some snooping but they trust that their os core end-to-end protection will protect their data then they might have relaxed um requirements on where that statement is coming from yeah and i think what i'm essentially saying is that i would like to have a section in the security considerations that discusses just what you said that can certainly be arranged on the topic of the uri alliancing being opt in on the server side that is something where i'm still some some of the text is not fully in sync with the mental model of the uh and with the with the story that i'm trying to get across here that is it is not even uri elias thing all even though it looks like it looks to wireshark on the on the on the network like that because all parties agree what the uri actually means um so considering that i think that this novelizing rule can be even be clear because there will be no uri alliancing introduced by this it's just some parties that think that can under certain conditions even forget that compression information and work as if they realized uris well we could invent a new term like the web address translator that that rings bells that i'm afraid you want to ring that don't sound good um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "i'm not sure maybe i don't know yet i mean it yeah it is a theme that in in both the reviews that there are things that need a bit better terminology that is not obviously not fully there yet but i think this can this can be worked out as the document progresses so that was the one point emphasizing that this is this is probably not uri alliancing it's just a form of compression and just just to be sure this is only about the case where someone wants to do away with the proxy uri proxy scheme option co-op literally containing co-op saving those five bytes and in to do that going through that if that is not done it's just it's just regular proxy and there's no chance of confusion about the involved your eyes the second point that that klaus brought up was about hello class perfect timing um was about the topic of using your eyes to identify things that we don't don't really usually identify you um with your eyes so in particular that that mechanic the the mechanism and address combination that is used to that that is used when using a particular proxy can be conveniently written down with co-op plus tcp colon slash address and that happens commonly when you think of how http proxies are expressed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "but really it is distinct from the resource at the root of that the resource that is served at the root of that host um given that everything that we have in in tooling for metadata is working in terms of your eyes i think we can still do that but it would be clearer if this document would introduce a concept like we have a uri and we use this we use a proxy described by it with a very narrow meaning that is basically scoped to the has proxy uh has unique proxy properties and possibly any other document that opted into it and there we'd be saying that if it's a co-op uri it then the scheme and the address are taken and the path must be empty and if it's some other proxy mechanism then that proxy mechanism please describe how a proxy is described as a uri noting that that uri may or may not also describe a resource that is completely distinct from that proxy functionality wouldn't change anything on the wire but would make it a bit clearer what whether that slashes at the end here is really relevant or what does it even mean if there is another resource sitting here as well and the third um controversial point is the use of the host relation which is primarily there currently for two reasons one is two things come together one is that um even though this was an option in critical negotiation we will usually not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "want to advertise a proxy for each individual resource because in every discovery step we might provide um like half a dozen resources think of the examples of of resource directory or even anything that is a uh that is a multicast um that is a multicast discovery and providing the proxy with each of them would at very least require a format that is distinct from link format to express it with any sense of of efficiency so this direction will need some indirection that groups all the resources together that are served from the same device and conveniently there is such a relation and that is this implicit host's relationship the tricky part about those is that everyone seems to have a slightly different idea about what it actually means so those ideas range from it is served by the same physical device over to it is an implied relationship between every resource to the to the same resource but stripping every path and query component down to the root of that device and the third being that this is just a name just a relationship that is implicitly defined when a link is placed in link format document without an explicit relation link relation and yeah that's that's just the value and it means no more nothing more than yeah those were talked about in the same um in the same link format document without any additional relation so variant one is something i don't think makes a lot of sense because no device can really know that variant two is something that it will probably not hurt if people make"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "that assumption but we i don't think we need it and the third one is the one that i'm hinging everything here on because the rfc 6690 says that this is an implied relation between those resources that's kind of default value of rel and every document we have out there now has a lot of these and it's just simple to say it's just simple to express this relation between those resources in terms of they are all hosted on slash and slash has a proxy therefore you can reach that resource through that proxy if there are cleaner better and more elegant approaches i'd be happy to use them too i just don't have any much better ideas right now i think slide three is that what you want um yeah we there is no pres i'm just skip going through those looking at whether there is any better slide i was wondering whether slides don't update today but uh no no it's basically i'm just using the slides from last time so that at least i can show something because i didn't prepare anything extra yeah so you are on your way to becoming a professor [Music] [Laughter] but slide three shows the the essentials we already have that top line here it has this implicit real hosts tying it to slash and if we just add a single line that is also tied to slash but with this particular relation and you don't see my mouse cursor moving around frantically but think of me pointing at the blue thingy here and basically following that chain of links"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "the client can arrive at the proxy to use you wanted to cover only these three points christian or yeah that's um that's basically this that's the three points that k that i'm taking away from the from the reviews there were a few others but most of them are probably being addressed or being addressable by small text updates and have been have been updated so the the larger question and to me the only question that remains short of those three is how do we make progress on this because some progress is coming from those two reviews but in general this is i think i think i'm kind of done with this so where do we want to take this from there so personally i think this is important work i believe would be good to happen uh in the working group uh it's good anyway if you produce a new revision out of the reviews and you present it at idf-113 also in front of a broader audience and then of course uh starting from people here today what do you think overall of this approach do you think is a good way to to handle the multiple transports in co-op or does anyone have a big concern about this approach as a whole don't be shy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "so five years ago we made this promise to adam roach who was idea at the time that we would uh solve this problem and um i think it it would be good to actually make good on that promise and uh yeah of the various ways to to address it this indeed has been the most promising way um so i'm all for pursuing this carson any more feedback comments no then i think we can look forward to having a revised version for vienna and thanks for replying to my comments christian thank you okay which brings us to the end of the agenda and to the aob we have one more uh interim meeting uh next week and that's the last before tf-113 so we'll meet again at the usual uh day and time so on wednesday f-15 utc that we are going to have a two hour session at idf 113. so anything more you want to raise for today know thanks a lot for attending talk to you next week talk to you next week thank you close thanks thank you bye thank you"
  }
]
