[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:51",
    "text": "so we'll give another one minute and we get started sort of sound should we get started i think so all right okay welcome everyone you're in the itf 112 dmm working group session"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "myself shrek navally and my co-chair satoru is here okay few things before we get started so if you by attending this meeting you're generally agreeing to follow the etf rules and other considerations so these are the this slide is about the ipr considerations and note well again as i said by attending this meeting you have to you're confirming that you'll you'll follow the idea of rules and regulations these are listed in this uh guides a few things for note taker pablo has agreed to be the note taker pablo thank you so much and a quick update on the working group documents we have currently three documents that are on the working group which were adopted as working of documents one is the user plane protocol and architecture analysis and the segment routing for segment routing ipv6 for mobile user play and mobility aware transport network slicing for 5j so a quick update i have not seen uh we have not seen much progress on the first one between the last meeting and uh this meeting uh so i think we need we need a new revision to see where we are right but right now at this point not much progress on this document on segment routing for ipv6 we issued a last call but there have been few concerns there have been active discussions for there are a number of comments like you know i think a few things after the working group called close we did not you know send any text any email on on the outcome of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "the call we thought because there were a few comments we thought we let the authors and those reviewers settle those you know you know discuss offline and uh converge on on on what what the changes should be so as we speak the authors other son and others are in actively in touch with with the reviewers joel we know is one of the reviewer who gave some specific comments right our plan is to really you know make sure the authors and the reviewers you know agree upon something in the next you know one month one month month and do a quick last call again in january that's the plan so but right now to give an update the last working of the lc from the last thing did not you know we did not feel we are ready to take it forward right we there are few concerns there is uh most of the issues are addressed but still there are few issues we want those issues to be addressed as part of the update today the authors are going to you know talk about the specific issues you know what are the blocking comments which are not they'll let them present give the status on that i have also spoken to or a area director eric on this document so he's also you know watching the threads carefully so we'll but or as i said our plan is to truly you know make sure all the issues are resolved and we absolutely want to move forward in january that's that's the plan now on the next document mobility about transport network slicing uh this this is today we again we have presentation this was adopted recently so at this point you know we don't have much to talk about this but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "but i think we do want some discussions in the mailing list on this document but we'll hear more from john on this on the progress of this document next submission is that there's a new submission between the last and iedf meeting and this one this is the srv6 mobile user plan architecture so there's an individual submission it's no discussions yet today we are going to hear from the authors as you know what they want to you know on the proposal with that i think uh i'll pause for a second and see if there any other so the agenda for today is like mainly you know three presentations uh one from john from pablo another from satoru so two working documents and third one the individual id so there is one other document that is missing as i said the first the other working document you know the authors haven't asked for a slot yet we are going to you know reach out to the authors and see you know what's going on on that document but uh but this is the status as of today now i'll pause here and see if there any comments otherwise we'll go with the presentations all right i believe nobody in the queue i'll uh let our first presenter john will you be able to present your slides using your slide deck okay let me okay thanks freya i've asked for a question hello"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "yeah i did actually i did grant you know john on his grant permission on him yes yes i did okay that's weird you may need to stop sharing first oh because i need to stop sharing sorry about that all right all right all right okay got it okay can you john can you make the request again please okay you should have it now sorry go yes we can see your slides oh this is who's sharing oh by the way shay can you hear me or uh john you're are you sharing the right slides you know maybe i'm not you're sharing if i what i see is a srv6 mobile user plane architecture for for foreign that's what i see don't even have that open so that's strange yeah sort of any comments what is what do you guys see inside my screen who is sharing all right if that's easier is that better yeah i can't figure this out uh well i've asked for uh permission to share the screen okay yeah i keep saying grant grant but i'm not is anybody you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "see i'm we are not sharing anything we can see the srv6 mobile user plane architecture for dmm slides at the moment we are not sharing i'm not sharing anything so can you try from your side john you may need to stop sharing first and then because you had requested share you may need to stop sharing the other and then request share your content directly i think that john has a different desktop my screen yes yes let me put it in the presentation you see plenty of windows yeah okay okay this is good please please continue okay good morning and oh good evening to you all and sorry about the you know time to take up to set this up uh but thanks for attending all of this and let me let me start with um saying what what we're doing in this draft in terms of the updates um this these are mostly updates uh based on comments that we've got um in the during the adoption call and also from feedback from related aspects in for example the routing working group and so on um so i've organized it into four areas one is a very simple clarification of that architecture section the second one is a little more substantial it's talking about the transport endpoint and its relation to the 3gbp 28541 endpoints the third one is related mainly to comments that we got during and before"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "the working group so on so that's the third one and then we have a few miscellaneous changes that's uh you know to make sure that we are aligning with the t's working group draft those are not really i don't have any slides to discuss but we've made changes in the draft so i'll go on to the first one and clarify this is a very simple change so i'll just walk through the diagram i mean or rather let me just say the change that we made is in two section 2 to add that the this architecture diagram and is provided here for information and we're not making any changes to the architecture per se it's exactly what's in 3gpp the g g node b d u and the cu on the radio side you can see over here the and and then the the f1 u which is the equal to the user plane for um the intro gpp the g note bcu and the upf all bounded via the n3 or the n9 connections all of that is exactly what is in 3gb will be making your changes to it what we're putting in this diagram is a clarification on how we're going to use it in terms of handling the slicing across these f1u or n3 and n9 and i think that's the clarification we provided going on to the second change this is a little more detail so i'll walk through it as in as much as we can um so this uh this change is uh associating the text in our document with uh some of the um the details in 28541 which is a network resource model uh management system"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "network resource model and 3gpp so i've copied the the a small diagram from 28541 which describes the transport endpoints as logic interface ids and there's a list of them and how it relates to the points in this draft is that you know there are these user plane network functions which could be the gene node b cu i mean you know bdu or the upf um and this interface id is what is then used for forwarding or setting up the uh classifying and setting up the slice and that is clarified in three areas in the document there's in the abstract wave uh added some text to that in the introduction section it refers to the 28541 and then later on in section 205 of mtnc id in the data packet we've again clarified how this is being used so if there's any questions on this i can take it or i'll move on to the next point so on the mti ncid for traffic class and tenant i mean this is there was some discussion on this there was there were some questions on you know how this is related to path and aspects like that this this was even before the i think working group reduction we had made some changes but uh in in this one the authors have worked to really remove all of the aspects related to tying it to a path and really what we've what we now have are traffic classes and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "tenants and you can see here that that i mean i've just copied the text from two with the changes we've introduced the notion of the tenants in this and if there are and the notion that there are if there are uh t traffic classes and see tenants then yeah it's a function of t by c in a fully meshed networks and that there is enough space to represent that if you use an identifier of 16 bits also we removed all the text associating a transport slice idea to a path in the network um those are the so if i may ask a clarifying question here right so the slice now it's no longer about two end points a logical you know a logical path between two end points but you're saying a it it's a set of you know nodes on the transport path of the change yeah of the slice is between the two end points as we clarify here uh the point is that the identity i mean associating that identity is with respect to a tenant that's using it um so i think this aligns i mean this aligns more with what's been happening in the idf and does that answer your question or yeah so in this context is is what in the idf context you know is the the entity that's the controlling the transport path or is it can you clarify on that sorry i somehow missed the first part you know what is the entity that the current in this context right you know where do you define that maybe i'll use just one of these the tenant in this case is the one that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "is um is requesting these services so you if you have multiple um tenants then they you know they would have different um i uh slice identifiers okay right and so in other words if it is uh to put the other part uh you know that was more tricky and that was there before and was tying it to a path so if it's the same tenant across different paths it may still use the same identifier and it can be resolved by using the combination of an identifier and where this is originating or destined for i i hope that clarifies that yeah okay thank you so thanks um um i think this was the these two are perhaps the most substantial changes in the text of the others are relatively minor so that's actually all that we have for this draft um yeah i think that's all any comments or suggestions to update we'd be happy to take them now or on the working on the mailing list yeah so thank you john uh any questions comments there is uh nobody in the queue so so john or you know are we requiring any changes on the n4 interface for this or yeah can you right you don't no we're not requiring any changes in the n4 so to i'll use this figure again to clarify that um so what's happening is so this 28 541 is some interface in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "management system which will populate the these endpoints uh so you know it may be vlan mpls segment udp port so they're all identified in this draft and that will be associated uh in in this uh you know endpoint then you know how that is mapped um is uh is via this interface i mean how how this is populated so based on where this is destined uh or originating from and the other classification it will use this mapping that is in here this endpoint transport mapping and and that will be used to classify these the slice and other information in in this transport network so to the short answer to your question is there is no change to the smf or the interface between the smf and the upf at all okay good to hear that john so i think just to clarify on the overall scope we are not truly defining a on the transport side we are not introducing the concept of a slice right but it's just more of a mapping we are giving an identifier to a particular transport slice we assume that transport other working groups would create that all what we are doing is we are doing an asso we are associating that slice to a session in the mobility absolutely is that is that that's a very good abstraction yeah because one of the concerns at the time of adoption we did say that is like you know we don't want to step on other working groups there is a gap here because transport area is already working on bunch of stuff in the mobility area we are doing bunch of things in the session areas in the session management it's just a mapping of the two as long as the scope is within you know stays within that we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "are perfectly fine and uh thank you john eric eric was on i believe is trying to say something eric cline i think you actually asked my question it was about whether or not there were any actual modifications required to the uh to the elements to any element that was implementing into or no no no changes to endurance for you know the only changes we can see is that already in 28 541 these are the vlan mpls and segment information already there i mean we're talking about as we mentioned you know the association between the um the way we populate a slice in the transport network to that of the the slice in the mobile network so this is a mapping or an association between them i'll leave it to the the chairs i assume you guys are following the other slice work as you were saying sri and other other working groups there's there's a fair amount of other slice things going on and i know that there's a vtn id draft in six man about trying to have a network slice id so i don't know if uh yeah speak up i guess is what i'm saying if you if you think there ought to be some kind of a multi-working group session where we talk about slice things across all the groups that are relevant i don't know if that's a good idea or not but at some point we need to you know make sure this aligns with the rest of the work that's happening uh in other groups eric i think the key thing is currently this document what whatever this document is doing is like you know it's something unique which others are not focusing here it's mostly about the how we manage the you know how we create an association between a session and a transport slice i think as long as we stay in that area and the slices can be of you know other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "groups can you know come out with different idea identifiers and all of that we should be able to you know we are not creating a new id but we are just using one of the id that other group creates and we are binding it to a session so if you stay in that i think we are perfectly fine but one thing john i think the draft need to be a little bit you know as to you know cover you know reflect these points currently it's all over the place but if somebody reads it they may be confused they might be thinking you guys are defining a new slice and all of that so i would suggest you and other other authors please you know review you know review the text again and make sure that you know the the comments okay i think uh we somewhat agree think as an as authors you know we didn't get the time at this time to update it but i think we feel the need that we should focus this draft to deliver something of value that can be used in you know setting up these mobile slices and only that um with respect to uh eric's comments you know i think uh not me but the other authors are or some of the other authors are looking at the tease work and we have tried to align uh the text in here uh or even reference them i'm not sure that any of us are tracking the six man specifically for slicing slices but uh we'll take that as an action to look at um but as tree mentioned i think uh you know the focus here is obviously to do the mapping and to a mobile session that uh gets you know gets uh established and re-established as a user moves and so that's sort of more uh specific to the mobile environment and we'll try to stick to only that okay so on this i think one final comment on this john i think if you can refer you know make sure track all the other uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "work that's happening other groups add some information informative forces if it makes sense references right and uh so that way we can make sure that the identifiers that you're referring to or you know we are not ignoring any here rather you know it's uh we are neutral to any of the types right i think that's that's yeah to i think eric's last comment at some point we may have to get this reviewed by other working groups as well john so i think we are not ready yet but let's clean up and that's at some point as ricky suggesting we may have to do that sure i've taken these notes and yeah i'll definitely work with the other authors to update this thank you okay uh i see uma uma please i see you in the queue i had one comment to what eric and you are saying right so we are following the peace working group what they are trying to do and as during the working group adoption we made sure that we referred and we because there's a huge discussion across the idea of like you know a centralized piece for the technology because there's a lot of discussion uh before the buffs and all that happened so we wanted to align we want to be the same page with the technology at least and also some of the things we mapped to the t's stuff so we referred explicitly during the working group adoption based on the comments so apart from that uh as the part of the neutral being neutral yes we are neutral that's one of the reason when in iedf 105 and eric said that empty and cid we don't want to put that into the data plane directly right so because we need to go touch l2 layer 2 ipv4 ipv6 and sr and pls everything that's why we took the neutral approach mtncd we encoded it into the udp ports but people further once it's that information is given to the ip networks then further they can put encode vtn id is what eric is mentioning in six man or they can do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "all sorts of ideas in uh these whatever they're trying to do they can do it but for us end to end we are neutral uh that's why we backtracked and we put uh we didn't put empty ncd all over the place in all data planes actually so this is the ietf105 discussion captures that so we're pretty neutral in this here thanks okay yeah thank you i was yeah i'll just repeat my offer if you think that there's uh other if you're satisfied with the current cross-working group uh awareness and then great and if not then let me know and i can try to talk to two other ads and we can figure out how to do some multi-working group kind of a session sure one more one more question one more thing for you i think this is uh one of the routing areas pointed to me offline messages uh it was not linked to the individual draft i think there's some ipr concerns so i just requested an administrative action from your side yeah okay all right thanks so yeah uh eric i'm making notes on this and the multi cross group coordination thing uh i think once we'll we'll let the authors work on this a bit more and at some point we'll do the review yeah okay with that uh thank you john and others and uh thank you i forgot to turn my videos on but nice to see you all and i'll get back to you oh great to see you so next presentation is pablo srv6 mobile user plane uh this is uh pablo please uh i think uh in your presentation please give an update on you know on all the feedback that you got as part of the lc please identify"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "specific blocking comments right and what you guys have what you as authors have done to for resolving those specific comments right so again as i said the goal is to really this draw draft has been sitting in the working room for a long time we need to close this we need to move forward so we want to i'd like to see some progress by january so please in your presentation please give an update on on please cover these aspects okay can you see the slides shri yes yes please pablo excuse yeah okay so many thanks this is pablo on behalf of the rest of the co-authors um many thanks esri for the introduction and i'll try to to cover the points that you have highlighted okay so as a brief reminder so this document went into working group last call on april this year on revision 11. we had a good participation with many comments so really thank you to everyone who has reviewed and and many thanks as well for eric that uh that actually also posted the working group last call to spring as well um and so during the working group last call we have issued several updates so actually we're on revision 17 um with to address the comments from the reviewers um and there have been many editorial points as well as technical comments um which i think has been very positive okay there are still i believe a couple of uh items that we should look at before we conclude the adoption so there is one email thread that i will discuss later and another point on the relationship of this work with other items and so basically on the next"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "slides what i will do is i will try to highlight these points okay um so the the first comment and this is in chronological order um so the the one of the first relevant comments that we got it was actually from joel harper and it was related to the relationship of this work with 3gbp um i've put in there the email link the url for the email from joel but if i'm not mistaken i think that joel's point is that he believes there is a conflict in between three sections of this draft with a work that is being defined in 3gbp the authors have quite a different point of view because what we believe is that we are defining the tool or the data plane and this data plane can be used by any other um entity or sdo such as for example the 3gbp so basically we are not trying to deprecate gdpu which is owned by 3gbp but joel is still feels that there is a conflict and this is one of the outstanding items that we should discuss and that we should resolve there have been um a few more comments so we got um quite a bunch of editorial changes uh from jerk and actually uh it was very nice that they gave us the div so we actually applied it and we also had discussion with john on terminology particularly on the l2 adjacency which we also resolved as rita also actually asked us whether this draft should also cover the dx2 and the f1u interface considerations okay so basically the way that we resolve that is that is not covered in this draft we believe it is out of the scope of this draft but it is covered in the draft murakami dmm user play message encoding so we added a reference to that draft um and then there has been a quite an extensive email exchange with jeff which has been really good um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "clarifications throughout all of the texts and um just point the technical points he had a lot of comments on the relationship in between the traditional and the enhanced modes and and whether they could be merged or not and we also had a lot of clarifications on the scalability concerns scalability concentrations that we on the draft then there have been a lot of discussion on the addressing and actually this is because in the examples that we use throughout the draft we are using other things like u1 tid which is not a correct ipv6 address in my opinion so we are trying to see how we tackle that and maybe i think that the most straightforward option would be that we just use the documentation ipv6 block and then we we have an ongoing email spread with jeff uh that is um revolving quite a slowly on both of our sites um but he's progressing quite good um and i believe that jeff just sent his last email one hour before this meeting so i don't know what was the content of email but we are making quite a good progress with jeff um so all in all i think that um so basically i think that we will be in pretty good shape uh for all of the comments i think the major point that will be outstanding it will be the comment from joel and the relationship that this work has with 3gbp the points from jeff still need to be finalized we have not closed all of them and once we have closed this and then hopefully we can move forward with this draft so that's all many thanks to everyone who has contributed when i see jeff on the queue yeah so pablo i think if you go back to the previous two slides one of the slides here which one so yeah let's start here let's stay here so out of these four you know comments like in our reviewer comments which are blocking comments versus which are like more editorial in nature so i i think the derrick john and srider"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "they have been already closed um i think joel comment is blocking well in the sense that it needs to we need to have discussion perhaps i don't know if it's at working group level or whether it should happen at a higher level um to see what is the relationship of this work with 3gbp so i believe that from this slide only joel's point is the one that needs a special attention okay but uh so you know how do you you know what's the what are the next steps like you know we want to you know see some convergence on this right so you know did you guys give up on this or are you guys still talking i think we need to have a further discussion um i think it would be interesting to get the point of view of more working group participants or if not at least the point of view of the 80s i think there are several options to resolve this um but still i think we need to hear a bit more voices so well i believe joel joel is on the joel from your point of view will you be able to summarize your key blocking comments and posted the working group that way you know because if you guys are not able to resolve it and like to get you know more broader feedback and uh find some consensus there so will you be able to yeah yeah speaker um i sent them to the list i i'll assume that the archive pointer is the right one but i i'll restate them i mean satoru asked to talk to me as an author i was i did so i restated them there the the this document has four alternatives it spells out three of them change the behavior of the g node b and or the upf that's the domain of 3gpp one of them says use srv6s tunnels to connect gtp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "the genome b and upf carrying the gtp etc and so forth as we do with tunnels hey tunnels i got no problem with that's absolutely valid you want to describe that go ahead but the other three cases are changing interfaces that are standardized by 3gpp and that is not the ietf's business we expect folks to respect the ip standardization we do not to change ipv6 not to change mpls we had a major fight with itu-t to keep them from changing the way mpls worked so if we expect other people to respect our work we owe it to them to respect their work and my understanding of our processes are we don't go redefining other people's architectures dmm can define alternative architectures completely not saying it's redefining 3gpp different topic if you want to define a whole mobility architecture using mobile mobile ip we did that there's probably room to refine it that's our business but we can't go redefining 3gpp i've been very clear on that with the ideas with the authors with the working group i don't know what to say beyond that joel just one comment if i may i understand your point however i believe at the beginning of this document we have particularly written in the draft and i quote the user plane describing this document does not depend on any specific architecture and so basically what we are meaning with this text is that we are not redefining what 3gbp is doing we are not redefining 3gbp interfaces you say that but it isn't but then the document does redefine it saying it doesn't make it true the document redefines the behavior of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "genode b's and upfs as to how they send and receive ip packets that's changing three specifications so i got it uh joel uh pablo i think that's what you asked that's why i made sure i was here for this so you could so i could tell you where i'm coming from you guys you particularly as chair since satoru is a co-author have to deal with what do you want to do with it no i'll just you know i think the others in the queue but i'll just make one comment here uh yes in in principle i completely agree with your view joel we are our it's not our business to change the gbp architecture however we can define alternative interfaces like six and three srv6n9 these are all the options i think we had to absolutely make sure you know we are not saying you know 3gbp says something and iv idf says by then no no we do it differently that's absolutely not the intent and from what i understand even the authors are not saying that but let's see you know where the confusion is how to resolve that but uh but in principle i agree with your comments search or uh we'll let others speak up in the queue yeah it's all um so i show up as a childhood uh but i am the jeffrey who has been making the all those email exchanges with pablo um um so yeah hi um about the the uh relationship with 3gpp my thinking is that um if we are not uh changing the into for signaling and as long as from uh the rest of the 3gb uh mobile system point of view that's uh the genome b and upfdr they are taking the m2 m4 signaling and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "uh and then and to set to send traffic um then as long as the the uh the boxes uh the gmlb or upf they can talk to each other or in a particular deployment scenario that should be fine that's why i while i share the concern with the competition with uh while stepping onto three toes i'm that's why i have even though i have that concern i'm still i've been still i still have been uh uh making all those comments to work on the technical and editorial improvements of the document so i think the important thing here is that we do not change 3gpp architecture we do not change 3gpp signaling and then for a particular operator if they wanted to to deploy uh srv6 tunnel uh uh as long as they can ensure the interoperability based on n2m4 signaling um that should be fine now going back to the uh technical and editorial or comments um there was two emails thread outstanding earlier i sent a response on one of the threads before the meeting there is another one i haven't replied yet i think we have resolved pretty much the major technical issues there are there is one issue remaining that i think it's good to uh to point out the option of uh doing the drop-in mode without using the special uh dropping end behavior i think we can still continue that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "discussion and then another major editorial point is that i still think it's good and it's better to use uh u1 colon current gid instead of using a uh the 2001 blah blah blah that address because we are what we are doing here is indeed encoding the tid in the ipv6 address it's better to to get to that point so that everybody understands what uh uh what it is a lot of confusion actually comes from the fact that we're not using the u1 quantum quality id so moving away from that is actually make it worse so those are my comments here so first thing jeffrey you know i saw lots of you know postings from you i appreciate that we did a very thorough review this is really what is needed i absolutely you know thank you for it's uh very much appreciated and i think uh yeah please uh work with the authors and uh you know let's uh close the remaining open issues so that we can move forward now jeffrey all right just wanted to understand whether or not um the three examples that joel is concerned about uh are uh still normative uh it seems to me from the chat that uh they're still listed as being normative and i'm wondering why they need to be normative can they be an example of what somebody who wanted to do something different uh you know in an appendix would that be satisfactory i mean people who are going to do it are going to do it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "anyway does it need to be a normative part of the that ietf document i don't know if that ameliorates the situation eric i i had some discussion with sartorius on this maybe i'll let sort of sound pablo speak up on their current views so eric i think that the core of this document or really what should be a standardized is section six if i'm not mistaking that is where we are actually defining the srv6 segment endpoint behaviors uh that win responsibility the section five which it is explaining the deployment scenarios to me um honestly it is not normative i would say i mean to me the normative piece is the behaviors that is what we need to standardize um how an operator is going to deploy this um we are proposing three behaviors with three modes or four modes in the track but actually an operator might decide to do even something different from this um so to me as long as we standardize the behaviors we are good um section number five does not need to be normative am i so would it um i don't know if jill's still uh in this session or if he's moved on to other sessions but um would it would it suffice to uh to state clearly that the examples given are non-normative and they are explicitly for uh folks who want to deviate from the 3gp architecture in this way i agree that section six is what you want to publish but if um we can't find a way to get around some of the issues in section five then the whole of the document is held up right so uh maybe i'd have to say text to know i i there might be a path down there it doesn't seem likely but more unlikely things have come to pass so there may be a path like that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:05",
    "text": "all right well maybe i'll take it maybe i'll take a stab at sending some text then i guess how about that but my put my text where my mouth is uh any other comments i think yeah just moving on uh i think pablo if you can get another few more minutes on your other comments just please go back to other slides please so okay we talked about joel's comments we talked about jeffrey's comments the others you know swedish you know i think x2 and f1 you that's no long that's not in scope i agree with you right what else is remaining uh pablo so from this slide nothing else then the rest of the comments are the ones from jeff and i think jeff summarized quite well the other standing points very good so let's please work offline with all of these reviewers and please try to you know like i said i would like to see you know we want to issue again a short lc again in january so please help us make that happen okay thank you very much thank you pablo and all the authors appreciate it and one other final presentation last presentation it's a this is a new document that uh center is published so please thank you introduce the topic oh yeah i can hear you can i see my screen"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "yes um this is saturday from softbank uh j hat off um hi today i present a service mobile from intel so um almost all contents be available on the draft i the first submit actually we explain the very uh did uh concept of the architecture uh by texas but the second submit zero one version today i submit i explain illustration so um sorry for the uh the submission right before the meeting but i think it'd be helpful to understand the the architecture how it works um today i present using powerpoint slide with the the picture so you can see the picture for the uh for example the deployment of the uh five 3gb 5g network using the uh upf uh base station general b here and the rdn on right on the right in between them the network exists to provide ip connectivity for the interface defined in the cpp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "you can see anything network here and n6 network here that's a typical uh picture to show this the cpp 5g user play architecture okay now um this is an example of how implementation for 5g user plane on sr under ray many people talk about segment routing how is underrated for the cpp mobile user plane so this is one example one operator can deploy a cpp network to proprietary connectivity do this so one vessel network uh consists of the many of the services node accommodate the above for example for instance ram and to connect access point general b and ncupf both to communicate with the base station and on the other side n6vp of both connected to the upf n6 interface then provide connectivity to dm through the n6d and both that's one of the examples how to deploy 5g network on top of the cell network okay so when we see this picture we can imagine"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "how the packet goes through so this way the packet goes through the base station access network from and to the upf then upf uh processor packet then for the packet to the israel network is our network for the packet to ddn and vice versa so one even the cpp network deploy one single cell network the packet be terminated once or twice at the point of the anchor that's one of the example of the deployment for 5g network on top of the cell network okay so now um here we are promoting srvcmup architecture in that architecture we can see the data path for five user plane nothing changed on the fcp architecture but the sl network can forward the packet goes through the n3 and a6 directory this is the one of the year's solution to provide optimized way how to optimize the paths for the plane to guarantee the minimum latency and other feature which is sigma drafting for traffic engine and slicing be available for the user plan path"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "so this slide shows the service mobile super architecture w on left side you can see the control frame control plane is consists of the mep controller and mep gateway and mvpe pgp is a protocol that's adopted in this architecture document but no not limited to in the control plane side to discovery route exchange between the gateway and pe for the mep segment and mep controller transformed the session info received from the mobility management system serious bp5dc for example or pmip mvp trans mp controller transform the session to the route the one loved is the pe for the terminal prefix the other one is just upf endpoint route to gateway you can see the detail in the draft on right side the data plane cpp is for example um sr network have a gateway and a pe but um get other sr node required to connect the cpp entity upf to keep the scpp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "architecture as it did so in the mvp gateway this picture there's two buffs configured one is n3rom for the z node b the another dn to import the dn route on mepp side the p holds the above for n6dm that's the uh overview for the architecture on both of the control plane data plane control plane protocol adopt pgp but not limited to and data frame picture just for example four or five is using cpp term but not limited to so let's try to explain some use case which is a new content on the latest version described in the illustration section please find the detail in that the text in the draft i'll show the the picture to explain the illustration using this slide so the how the i service can be provide the optimized paths for each of the distributed cloud and make side that's the assumption for this use case so on the left side you can see the green mep gateway and pe the this sr node holds the above functionality of the mep"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "the n3 round buff accommodates the argento b with the half the base slope b prefix another verb for n6dm to accommodate dn site which have the e3 prefix genodb supports provides a connectivity to ue for prefix use ratio that's the condition of the access side of the mvpk3 and pe on the left side mvp accommodates n6d and buff for dn1 hyphen w for the w dot slash w prefix on the bottom side uh the upf connected to the sr node s2 with the uh two buff one is n3 upf another is in six path to provide connectivity to the both n3 and m6 nothing changed from the previous slide on this part here on top of the sr network mmp controller exists the mvp controller transport transform the system information to the route you can see the right hand mvp controller advertised ue doubt for the dl path download downlink path another route advertised to mep gateway"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "is the upf route ups route means the uh the endpoints of the mobile user plane it works for the uplink path it's imported in the uh in three numbers the another real route advertiser imported to the uh buff in is mep uh pe on s1 same node of the imep gateway the n6dn buff imports the ue route as well so the connectivity between the uh ue and the inside is actually be provided and also the connected connectivity between the ue and the insights double slash w also be provided not to mention the inside dn1 dash e and dn1 dash w can communicate to each other it's not depends on the mep architecture it's just normal a service vpn future okay next slide uh this picture shows the equivalent network model using the cpp connector protector in the data architecture to make sure the the equivalent network for previous slide we have to deploy the two upf on each side"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "in between the n69 exists the list upf accommodate the dn through the n6 network on the other upf uh accommodate dn another dn through another dn60 that's the equivalent network model to previous slide in cgpp model here you can see the use case second use case actually it's same in this case but the uh uh the h site is this another p e i mean so multiple uh dn side uh supported by multiple sr node in this case uh mep gateway doesn't need to import us ue route in the n16 above because it just only provides the uplink path in the above return path is the uh provided by a service mobilizer frame function not depends on the buff or n6dn the the configuration is almost same on mepp in so3 but in this case s4 appear to accommodate the edge side dn e slash e for that configuration mvp control advertise the ue route"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "to n6d and buff on s3 and l4 but not not needed to the s1 buff mvp control also the bottle up route to gateway to be imported to the ns3 number the route between the n6dn in each sr node imported and exported each other to make sure the uplink path let's show the uh another deployment case for to host the edge site the decider exists on the uh in additional is sr node that's different from the previous case in this case um there's no need to import ui route in mpp gateway so it's that may immediately deployment uh be simple and not to import much of the eu route into the above that's helpful for make sure the scalability so um equivalent network model using the chpp architecture model architecture picture um this use case also need two upf for each of the dnsi and in between upf and three network exists between z not b and upf on left side and right side"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "to sr and 6 network which is to support the dm side double double and the setup is e from each of the upl that's the equivalent network model so um that's a brief explain how the service semipenet architecture works for example using a cpp network model this is not to intend to change any of the another seo specification architecture model just to respond to fulfill the requirement for the dmm using the segment routing b6 from the mobile user plane aspect all of the uh the background and the what's the requirement are certified in dmm is already described in the introduction section in the drafts so please read it so after you read the document i really happy if you have any interest and if the working group in favor i'd like to ask the working world adoption that was my side my presentation thank you so couple of comments i think before i ask the working group so can we say that this scope is strictly on n6 the steering is more from the data network is that did i get that is my understanding correct the steering is more on the n6 rather than on the core network interfaces or n3 or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "i don't think uh we have a appropriate uh the term defined in cpp because it's not cpp architecture but this is the idea of architecture one of the right actors shall be defined for mobile user plane but um yes um the gtp is assumed to terminate on the gateway after that the uh the pack in the packet handled by isr network just to when the essential information come from the mobile mobility management system it totally depends on the how what's the operator what the other seo architecture integrates the this mep architecture the sap smep just provides the interface for the user frame packet user plane traffic to be handled okay so 3gpp does not recognize anything on the north of the of the upf 196 right they don't recognize any node right yeah at least nothing changed on cgp side yeah that's good that's good so there is the related two other documents the mfa document that i worked on for some reason i did not follow up on that right it's also about steering right it's like you know anchorless mobility how do you steer directly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "right that's one draft i think i'd like to ask the relation like the level of overlap with this and although marco is the draft we're all you know i we discussed on on defining something on n6 steering the idea of n6 steering which does not want to do they're very clear you will not recognize anything on on the north of upf right it perfectly falls in you know you know oscar but but those two documents the relation to this any comments of that sort of song yeah i uh i really like mfa id and i really like the uh mobility idea from marco um so the uh but um somehow the uh uh those two drops are uh haven't been maintained but while i i work on the service mobile user plan um deployed a service network in my uh employees network that's the my uh relation latest proposal to provide optimized password to uh fulfill the dmm requirement yeah so well i think the mfa uh supposed to use the fpc but also the this architecture can adopt ftc as a northbound of the mup controller but not too limited too nowadays we have a bunch of the candidate using the open source anything possible on grpc based transaction i think yeah you know fpc is one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "interface between the controller and the data plane element but yeah like you said there could be alternative interfaces i think yeah these work can be neutral to this uh yeah i think in my opinion this has a individual i see i think this has value but let's see what others think you know let's collect some feedback if anybody has read the document any questions comments this is again this is not a working document this is just a individual submission at this point but i think let's uh if anybody has any questions comments please speak up i see some uh people in the queue uh john let me see oops i'm missing sorry john please go ahead john hanno yeah john that's right no see are you meeting you meet you can't hear you john you're unmute john you're on mute hi can you hear me now yes yes i can hear you yeah sorry for that um i haven't read that document so clarify that but in the presentation i got the feeling that you're steering both and three and and six somehow you know because that's what makes it optimal so i mean even that's fine but uh my question is more like if if that is the case um what happens to the functions and the upf like charging or other things charging of course but also other access control aspects like uh you know i i saw that it was first single dnn uh but if there are multiple dnn some slicing or other cures enforcements all of that those are questions but i'm making the assumption that you're steering both the n3 and then six so if you clarify that first thank you uh yes um uh in the sleepy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:02",
    "text": "point of view uh it will be uh uh yes or no but but um let's mention that the other functionality of the the processed in the upf um currently our architecture is just to prove uh fulfill the dmm requirement okay at the basement okay so i'm really happy to work to support other functionality if uh any people interested i was thinking more like you know it may be a private network or something like that so it's a single day and then you know factory or whatever you know something of that sort but um and then the questions are about access control and other things like that uh uh is that going to be in some other access controller should be controlled on the control plane on session management side the imp network mvp network uh just follow the uh the decision what's the decision made in the mobility management system okay mep mobile user plan doesn't have any uh intent because just to provide the dmm requirement satisfied okay i think and also this picture shows only one dna but multiple sides you mean one single dna but the multiple d and d9 okay thank you that's what i i try to explain okay thank you okay thank you john i know long time hello everybody yeah i i haven't read a comment not played this hero heroes and i noticed that we haven't provided taylor's questions uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "i have a question about this uh decision information what you are mentioning there on chapter six uh with where you are getting the session information from the control gateways and in that interface as i have understood also from the responsible what you have in in the mailing list that you are applying routing protocols irrespective which routing protocol it is but particularly if you consider the example pgp protocol i'm curious about them with the routing of be sufficiently reactive to sn carrying session information because that's that change that that's quite rapidly it's not like a prefix more of transaction type of information as we have seen from any alternative and the second question related this reactiveness consideration is the scalability do you think that this using single ears is scaling enough to the scale of mobile network or would you need to have multiple um i couldn't catch what exactly uh what the your question is let me clarify this one yeah okay let's fight the point is you know because you're adding individual routes what hanu is saying will you be able to scale because when you do steering at a session level you're almost almost like a in one sense it's like a host route right but this is steering but i think uh honest question is will the system scale i know did i get that right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "and then how fast you are reacting for propagating the routing pipeline okay thank you very much um i have the same question to the 5g interface svi because they adopt the arrest and the um the post and the callback uh how time uh how react uh uh immediately but um the the we uh actually not uh defined the actual uh transport protocol for the northbound api and mit controller as well as the southbound with the controller now we adopt the pgp but not limited to but at least the pcp i have to admit the vp running of the tcp tcp has a headphone bottleneck uh i have to admit but um the best as well and also the nowadays vcp carries the uh millions out of inside but outside of the network so that's the i have no idea how to compare the scalability which uh session based routing based scale scale or not that's my answer this time sorry i haven't uh uh exact on number of number two answer to you right now okay maybe that's something to consider later on thank you thank you thanks hello i think that's a that's a good comment chucky uh can you hear me sorry yeah yes okay okay uh i have some questions uh i i didn't uh spend the whole time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "watching your your video but i went through your slide and in a couple of them you mentioned about the nine interfaces in in the interface but without specific without expecting anything about like vrf or those type of things so how are you going to handle like you have more than one upf with a 9 interfacing toy his first question and then depending on that i have another question okay um okay thank you very much to to focus on the one single question uh and if i understand your question correctly i think uh we don't need to deploy no9 in the in the sr network because the uh this case just one upf exists so there's no link to a deployment line but if we see the same capability to provide two uh site of the one single dm we need two ups that's our assumption so then we put a nine in the middle of the path of the upf 2up okay did i cancel correctly for each question yes but in that case are you going to configure also config the vis on the ni interface this case you don't need to configure the n9 but if you follow this configuration you may need to uh configure internet involved okay yeah that's uh that's not our architecture okay sure no problem this seems like uh the for the follow-on question regarding uh something being discussed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "in 3gpp essay 2 about the multicast part probably you have heard there is like mbupf that'll be introduced and then on one side using a knight about the upf at the other side n6 about the edd and then because of some limitation or restriction on the genome b side and so there might be point point or point multipoint so for the mbupf it's going to have a knight about the upf and then it has it can provide another n3 directly throughout the genome so basically from the mbupf you're going to have two passes um yeah i don't know um how it's going to fit in this architecture at least i haven't seen it from your slides thank you very much um thank you very much but actually uh we didn't care the multicast service right now i think the mba service is the new service appeared recently in the cpp uh it's even it was already existing 4g but i will study uh for that service but currently we didn't see that service in our architecture i have to be i have to admit okay sure so dingy is that you're referring to the empms architecture uh it says a new that being introduced uh in sa2 it's a like a 5g mbs so i think the the the work i think the uh i think the phase two has been done it's uh it's almost there so yeah yeah phase three for the release 18 probably all that being been planning right now being planned right now okay that no that's a that's a good comment i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "think uh author should review that good thank you very much jeffrey yes i could actually offer a guess uh answer for the unknown question that from from png to me that's uh in iitf terms that n9 uh the box that does n9 mapping there could be uh viewed as uh in doing inter as option b where you just do label switching or here is a non-label solution but sr b6 mapping and an end behavior that mashima-san has already specified in the other drafts we were talking about earlier just a guess you introduce option b between the the upf and some pe router interiors option b does not require vrs right okay okay all right thank you jeffrey any other questions comments all right uh if there are no other comments i'll leave this topic here thank you saturday son i think again working please review this document i think post your comments if there is interest you know we'll discuss on the next steps but right now there's an id individual contribution but uh with no working group status uh any other before we we are done with all our presentations again uh as we we talked about number of things action items on the individual ids uh from authors and also from the working group uh after this meeting we are going to send the notes that publish captured uh we'll take it from there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "any other final comments eric from your side comments feedback anything you'd like to see um assuming you met this eric um yeah if you're like yeah yeah uh the radical i don't bother him unless there is an idiot um nothing for me uh i think uh i'll need to absorb this presentation i'm trying to understand how it uh does not create an alternate architecture um although i understand that that's the argument that's trying to be made so but um thank you for for all of the all the work with that we close this session thank you so much thanks everybody yeah bye thank you um see you in bangkok wow finally hopefully yeah hopefully thank you so much you"
  }
]
