[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:03",
    "text": "Hello, everyone. This is TSvwg. Where we have arrived at the last session of the day. We have 1 hour. In today's session, we have another session tomorrow, which is 2 hours. And I'll just start the slides. There we go."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:13",
    "text": "K. Let's get started. So you should be familiar with this by now, this was the IETF note well. Have as important policies that you agreed to by joining this meeting. Both in person and, on Reid echo. It covers things like our anti harassment procedure, our code of conduct and, policies for, intellectual property. We already have a notetaker. Thank you, Stewart. General comment if you Want to get your drafts reviewed Please review other people's draft as well. Our work depends on Reviewing each other's work. This session is being recorded. Everybody in the room, please log into the, into the meet echo tool. We use, the q So if you want to say something, first join the queue and then line up at the mic. So progress since the last IETF meeting. We haven't published any RSCs. We have, 2 RFCs, 2 documents with the editor. And we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "completed the, Shepherd review of of of of the SCTP 0 checks some, draft, and it's now with the ISG. MultiPath DCC has completed working group last call. And, Corey is working on the on the shepherd right up. And we expect to start working group last call for, 2 documents. One of which is the UDP options and the other one The DPLPMT UD for UDP options. Yeah. Just quick clarification. So the, Martin Duke, area director the, STB checks on draft. Has not gone an IETF last call yet. It's gone through work week last call. And, yes, the Shepherd write up is complete. 80 evaluation is going on. And, I I think that the offline, so I had and, Michael and I agreed to, like, sort of settle the issues at a call next week. So, unless I had who will then be in charge has other huge objections, then, we should get that to IETF last all. Very soon after that. Thanks for the clarification. And I was gonna jump in on the Next slide. On MPDCCP. We consensus, I think, in the working group to publish, I'm waiting for Some additional input from the people who reviewed last time who did detailed reviews as part of the working group process that they are they are happy with the final versions. So if you previously reviewed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "mpdccp, then please, send a message to the list saying you've read the latest version or whether your issues are addressed. In the meantime, I'm preparing the Shepherd write up. I just wanna confirm that we have all the changes that were requested before the weekend of us call. Hi. Nice point to your point out that the NQB draft, we expect to do a working group last call on that shortly as well. So like to have that added to the list. As I pointed out earlier, Reviews of documents are really are really appreciated. Please review other people's documents. That leaves us with these 5 remaining working group items And we have agenda time for All of them during this meeting. So you will hear updates about these. Very soon. I'm sorry. Do you wanna talk to me this line? Account. We are Roughly, online with our working group milestones. There are Things that are in the future. Sean Green. There are things that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "about ready and the the bottom 3. And we will, of course, update the milestones before the next meeting and and unless people have comments on the milestones, which are happy with things. So, I do the agenda or you, Martin. Oh, go ahead. This is the agenda for session 1. We've got 3 sides of agenda. So, This one refers to the meeting session today, 1 hour, And we will look at this list of trucks There's no, liaison updates at this moment. We have liaisons in place with 3gpp. Especially surrounding the SCTP details discussion, which comes up tomorrow, But unless people are coming from this agenda, and Then it's good for us. Next slide, This is the Second of three pages, it shows the agenda for session 2, and session 2, we will take time to look at the that person design team. And this will be important part of the current meeting And we'll also be looking at other a CTP related draft the same time. In that session. Next slide. Oh, Yeah. Because we are aiming to conclude our work of our design team to produce requirements and to help us identify find the proposals that we could use in this space, have a look at design team slides, which were in the the meeting's proceedings,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "That will help a lot in the discussion we come to that and provide the opportunity to ask detailed questions of the design team What to bring things to the working group? So please have a look at that slide deck ahead of the meeting. Next slide. On the final part, There'll be a presentation on the careful resume. Dropped. And we are going to spend the last part of the session 2 looking at topics that have bubbled up a number of times at the t r. In terms of, Contributions from individuals, and our aim is to have a discussion around these to see if we can identify some requirements for This particular design space, so that we can make some progress in this area to understand what's in scope and what Otis School when it comes to signaling metadata or data about connections and how we might do that in TSBWG. So This is our current agenda list. I'm I'm I'm We don't. Expect to have additional time And We will take comments. Me again. I I think there's probably as good at times any to, tell people that, there's a there's a scone probe off going on Thursday morning, which is about sort of explicit QS signaling the network, which is probably of great interest to to this working group. So I encourage you to, find your way over there. X, x, x, Any other agenda bashing? That is not the case. So we can jump right in."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:23",
    "text": "So, I'm going to give Just one short instruction to this, and then Mike will take over the transport options for UDP has been going on as an internet draft for some considerable time, And To try and finish this document, we had a discussion between the document editors, Mike, and the the Working group chairs, figure out what was left on the working group as call list. On this talk here, because the aims of and, and completing that process and bringing this document to a working group call, but, that decision more or less depends upon the discussion that happens in this meeting. So, over to my group. If you're available, you can present it, my You next slide, please. Alright. This is a little out of date because Joe has actually post the 3 more small issues, but they're small. But as of the, Saturday morning. All the issues had been closed. That doesn't mean completely, without controversy. A version 32 will be posted shortly, I think. The exact, timing is up to Joe. That's what we think will be ready for the our second working group last call. And resolve the lingering discussion, the lingering disagreement with the discussion on the list or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "get help at that point. Next slide, please. And this is, the next three slides are how the what were then remaining, open issues, how they got, resolved. 2 long time wins were authentication and encryption. There are those 2 along with a third an another unsafe option compression are kept as placeholders in the documents so that we can refer to the Mesa examples. But the, The the formats are not defined. The code points are simply marked as reserved and the intended future use is documented. The former descriptions that were, in the draft for authentication and and unsafe encryption are now in a new draft that, Joe posted recently. One that, I had raised myself, That The issue was try to reduce implementation complexity by limiting our per fragment options to specific ones and fixing her fragment option appointment. Didn't the actual resolution is a little different. Joe points out that if we actually do have something like compression or some versions of it. Encryption, it can actually change the length of the packet so it would want to be up front. So, that, the option placement is as it was. However, something that I thought was very important got added, and that is it. Now all options have explicit instructions on how they should be handled if received in fragments. And that is now required also of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "all new options, which I think is, getting getting clear instructions the implementers there seems like a a very good move. So I was I was happy with that. Next slide, please. With apologies. I'm not seeing it yet. Alright. Here we are. Thank you. The 2 that were related and that caused a lot of controversial discussion I had thought, raised this issue myself, unsafe opt should not necessarily be just those that modify user data, And, Then Tom Herbert was, had raised the, issues loudly about, APC, which is the alternate payload check sum and authentication. Thinking that if the if those fail that, the, the package should be discarded and not passed up to the upper layer with an indicator failure. Where we are at this point, The normative definitions of unsafe in actually section 12 the typo in the slide there. That doesn't raise any controversy with me, and it didn't get further discussion. It looked fine. There is descriptive text and sections 1011 that, specified that, these, unsafe options are are just those that modify payload data. The text that, was proposed was deemed too vague so it didn't go in, and it's left as it was."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "APC and auth remains safe options to be used as building blocks. An APC will be renamed to additional payload checks, some, to clarify that it's a building block. A small one raised late in the process from one of our not one of our usual contributors, and I'm having a moment. A senior moment, not remembering his name. But the it's the issue has been addressed. We can't support options with, anything that doesn't have an independent UDP length, which jumbo gravestone in, The For our RFC was this was cited. Next slide, please. These three, we're basically editorial in nature. Not I think, interesting to, spend much time on. And, the fixes are, queued up for version 32. And and controversial. So Next slide. And, as Corey said, we're hoping for a working group last call, after this meeting, And whatever comes out, We'll As always, please review and comment and thank you That's it. Thanks, Mike. I would like to take any questions from the working group if there are any of that presentation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:04",
    "text": "Okay? Was kind of expected so that's good. What I am looking for though is a response to request for people to review this. Could people please volunteer review it. If you're willing to volunteer right note, the latest version. During the working group must call, then please put your name in the chat or come to the mic, because we do need document reviewers we're going to do a working group last call. Multi. Yeah. I'm on Duke. As, I no longer I'm clearly not gonna get this as AD. And so since I no longer have to keep my, powder dry for that. I will go ahead and review this. I'm A mildly concern that that the intent of this draft is to Being end to end mechanism, and yet It seems to be an attractive nuisance for people to come up with not end to end things to do with it. But I I'm gonna bris reserve saying anything else until I read the draft. Thanks. Thank you. When the absence of further comment, please Do volunteer to review the draft. I propose to start a working group muscle for this item to collect Questions, Comments and notes of support, using the IETF mailing list The church will do this After the IETF meeting, I'm coordinating with the editor to check that we have the latest version. So, please expect this to go for a working group last call for comments. On the list,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:22",
    "text": "Then we'll move on to LRS. Jason. So, if you were in Map RG, some of this is a bit duplicative but this is a quick 5 minute lightning talk. It sounds like Next slide, please. Just an update on our field trial. You can skip this one. This is just for background. Alright. So here are the latest updates. The first thing that to note here, and we just finished this about a week ago. All of our backbone and other router configs have been updated to now allow ingress DSCP 45. So folks wanna test, NQB. Can do so. We've done it for all the residential cable modems. Haven't done it for the other last mile technologies yet. We're getting there. So we haven't done, EPON Fiber to the home. Are, ethernet direct or the commercial DOCSIS customers. But the bulk of our, endpoints are the residential DOCSIS network. And so that should work. We think we fixed all of them. We obviously have a few different router vendors and models. And so we've played a little bit of whack a mole trying to make sure that we've gotten all of the policies updated, but that's complete. So you should be able to do some, NQB testing if you want. And, downstream support. So we are just on the cusp of putting this into production testing. Were through, beta testing in the lab. So last year, we started with upstream testing in the cable modem. Now we're adding downstream testing in the CMTS. So coming soon,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:04",
    "text": "then we also just did a pretty major update of the, cable modem boot file. As I related earlier today, in the Map RG meeting, with AQM when we turned on docs as pie was very easy to do. It was really you know, a flip of a switch it was on or it's off, not really configurable. And we learned that we had a variety of, configuration, things to to do and work closely with, Greg White, who's on the call here to try to optimize some of these things. And, you know, he was a really helpful sounding board for us as we were working through different configurations testing in the lab, and and now this is rolled out in the field. We're actually in the process of rerunning all of the tests that we did before. We can see what the downstream result is Next slide. Which is the last one. So we continue to test we expect to do so for a to be determined period of time. At least a little while to to get through all the test cases. And then, you know, generally speaking, stepping back for the rest of 2024, we're preparing operationally to scale to millions of users. Means a bunch of things. That means things like automated provisioning, getting that to work, getting it working in all the relevant boot files, qualifying all of the cable modems, the especially the retail cable modems, that our docs 31 that are going to support our FDX network. And, you know, all of the operational monitoring measurement sorts of things. And so that's where a lot of energy is right now, especially around monitoring. So that's it. That's a quick update on the field trials. Happy to take any questions if you have any. And it's okay if you don't Alright. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:05",
    "text": "Okay. And then we'll we'll move on to the next draft, Greg? Right. Great white cable apps. So we'll give a quick update on the L4S ops draft. So operational guidance on coexistence with classic ECN during L4S deployment. I'm the editor of this draft lots of contributors, have provided text through different sections, are all listed on the bottom of this here. Thanks to everyone who's contributed text for this draft next slide, please. So the scope of this draft is to address some of the concerns that were raised during the standardization of L4S around what would happen if L4s traffic. Shared a a single q or shared q, RFC 31 d8 classic ECN. Bottleneck, and shared that with classic traffic. So whether it's that ECN classic ECN or, just drop, base congestion control traffic. And then the potential for, L4s traffic to get more than its fair share of the bottleneck link bandwidth. And for those who remember that discussion, there was a lot of debate as to whether these bottlenecks actually existed in the network. And, some studies do try to identify whether they did or didn't. But, nonetheless, we, and I I don't think that There was ever, inclusive, proof that they did, but, unless they could, exist at some point in the future, if they don't already today. And so this draft gives guidance for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "operators of end host to try to identify if such bottlenecks exist. Operators of networks, who may deploy such bottlenecks with guidance for how they can avoid issues. And then some guidance for researchers who might want to be looking for, such bottlenecks in the network. At the time this the that this draft was created we agreed to keep it as a living document. After the L4 S drafts were published as RFC. And as, network operators begin deployment of L4S experiments, so that, any experience knowledge was gained during that process can be rolled in to the document. And the milestone is was listed previously, is to this, by November of this year. That said, there have not been any contributions recently. The last substantive changes were made in 2021. So, I guess a question the working group is, should we continue to keep this open, all the way to November we working with last call it. Open for comments on that. And it looks like Martin Yeah. Martin Duke, Google, no hats. So so so Are the initial FRS deployment experiments done? Done. And if so, like, what's the scope of them? From from from from In terms of, live network, experiments, Comcast 1 that, Jason just discussed and discussed earlier in in map RG, is the only live network, experiment that I'm aware of. Whether you could say it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "done or not. Obviously, it's it's the still in progress. They're they're studying, behavior up from a downstream, but, Yeah. I think they only want Continue. Alright, this is maybe a little bit too much to Surely discussed with the mic, but but but but I mean, and I could be massively misinformed here, but I don't think, like, any major clients are currently currently currently -8-8 Doing anything with Well, I shouldn't say that. IOS has it as a as like a as a non default option, if I'm not mistaken, I know that Chrome is is well behind that, and and Android is well behind that. Like, I I don't know if any, like, major servers out there are deploying things. I I don't know what this I don't really recall, like, the details of this agreement that we're going to sort of catch capture initial experiments. So if the intent was always to ship this document Without, like, wide deployment experiment experience. That's that's fine. If that was the agreement, but I I don't feel like we're at a point of wide deployment And and Stewart probably is way more better information than me. So, oh, you have the mic. Oh, no. It's it's not better information just might be I wanted to share our perspective and I'm sure everybody in this room is well aware of the challenges and networking of the chicken and egg problem. It's very hard to get network operators to deploy L4S of the bottleneck queues when the management says, well, tell me what clients will make use of this information, and the answer is not. And it's hard to argue companies like Apple, about why the clients should use L4S signaling when the management says, well, tell me which networks provide this and the answer's none. So, That's why it's taken a long time to get to this point. But but why we come to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "IETF meetings and hackathon and have intro prevents and all try to work together. So I am very happy that cable apps has done the work they have. I'm happy that Comcast is rolling out a trial, at this point, I think the main victory of the trial is to show that it doesn't break anything. If the Comcast cable modems, I see Jason nodding in the front row people didn't say that. If the Well, modems can enable the L4SQ. And all the customers don't notice any problems. Then that is the first step towards getting this deployed and we're doing our best at Apple to hold up our part of this bargain. With with l for s in TCP, l for s in quick, for applications that don't run over one of those transport protocols like face time video conferencing. We're working with that team. For them to be using l4s, to reduce the queuing delay and reduce the packet loss. So, All of this stuff is coming to market at the same time, and I'm pretty optimistic in the next 12 months. With Comcast rolling it out for millions of customers and and Apple doing our part to have things like FaceTime in the future, making use of that, I I think we're going to see, a switch flip where people suddenly see that their video calls are much, much better quality and and then hopefully, we'll see the rest of the industry follow suit pretty quickly because somebody has to set the example here and lead the way. And that's what we're trying to do. Yeah, if you don't mind me, interjecting there, Corey, this back and forth. Thank you for that update, Stewart. That's great. I mean, not look. I I absolutely agree that, you know, chicken and egg, we have to move this forward. I'm just asking a narrow question about this draft. I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:04",
    "text": "It's easy for me to say because I'm not writing it. But it but if it it was backed by the experience of Apple already having deployed both ends of this connection You know, scale with you know, Comcast having deployed the router bit of this at scale. I think that's a much more effective document. Now we shouldn't wait forever for that. Or a very long time for that. But, I'm just interested in other people's perspective if if they think that's accurate or if we should like, kinda go what we have now and last call this, I agree with what you're suggesting, Martin. I think this could continue as a living document for a while. Until the dust is settled. And things stop changing. So, I I would be supportive of that. Like, Corey. You're in next in queue. Jason, who can jump me? Yeah. Just real quick, I'll agree. I mean, I think no harm in keeping it open and then updating it with anything that we've learned, you know, in trial and deployment. Thanks. I sent it in the chat as well. I was gonna jump in at the end, working group church trying to figure out what to do, but I think people are starting to say already what I was hoping. I was hoping the document would be update seed And we currently have a milestone On November, that's Hopefully, out there. We have a number of working group items which are currently maturing will go through their working group last calls. This looks like something which is a great document to have."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "I'm not hearing anybody saying we have to publish this as an RFC because someone's way for it. If that's the case, then Please make yourself known Otherwise, I would personally prioritize the NQB draft and get that one published because it's a protocol spec. But please push back now if you think there's something more to say on this. I just remembered the other quick comment I wanted to make, which is slightly off topic for the document, but Martin's comments made me think about it. And I think it's important say. I'm at the point where I wanna work how what we need to do to work with the Linux community, to get L4S support into main line Linux, and that means accurate ECN, and the prog congestion controller. Because, of course, Most data centers are not actually running macOS on their service, they're running Linux. So so limit to what Apple can do there. But but, but, I'm I I really think we need to reach out the Linux network and maintain this and start making better progress on that. I should just stay by the mic. So, if Neil's out there, Neil's knows more about this than I do in terms of the Linux situation. But, I but one issue with accuracy, and I think is that it's not yet gone to RS see. And, judging from the TCPM meeting I just came from, the chairs have that. So it's not a million miles away. So that's at least one you know, one road one roadblock that will clear, hopefully, on the order of months. Okay. see no other I times. It won't be hard to see for which though Martin. Yeah. So Yeah. That that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "is also part of this puzzle. But go ahead, Greg. Alright. So, can I get if we're keeping the draft open, I guess I would like to encourage people to do experiments, look for additional things that we could add to the draft to to improve it? So, Yeah. Let's not just keep it open and and Hi. I'm getting kind of kind of tired of just, re upping the draft and changing the, the draft number and and that's it. So, Yeah. Please, please provide contributions Thanks. If we can go on then to the next slide deck. Well, I just want to give a brief update on the l for us interoperability events. Come on to the next slide, please. So As folks are probably where we've been running a number of interoperability events to test L4S, implementations, both the, endpoint implementations, congestion controllers, and through DCN implementations as well as the network part of it with the, ECN congestion signaling. Had a series of them, coinciding with IETF meetings, 4 of them in in total so far. We did not have one, for this IETF, just due to, travel schedules and, some of the individuals who have, been running those events and participating those events, not, being able to travel to the,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "by ATF 119. Alongside the IETF events, cable labs has been hosting a series of L4F interrupts as well, at our laboratories near Denver. We've had 6 of them so far, most recent one was just last month. And, a good mix of both, network equipment and network operators as well as, the endpoint applications PCP quick and proprietary, transports for, different applications have been participating. Next opportunities we I'll plan to hold the next one at cablelabs in endofApril. And, and registration is already open for that. So if anyone is interested, in participating. Please, click the link on the slide. Or reach out to me via email. And then, also intend to hold another IETF interrupt at, 120 meeting in Vancouver in So, just wanna give that quick update and, invite people to, bring your implementations and, and continue testing. And that's it for that Short item. Less there are questions or comments? Alright. I see, Kenji and the yes. Kenji. Same city here. It's not the question about, testing your down here. Just try to ask one scenario whether has been covered or not. Customer for the LLS. We have, some case, like,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "when a router or kind of this 5 gs? When a UPS does have, a marking for LFS and then it's going to have, another layer of encryption like the GTP, UDP IP for the external. But the thing is when that one put on the in 3, the the external IP may not have the LFS setting. So in order to accelerate, you know, for alpha as a market packet, what should be done? So, basically, how to penetrate to have the in internal f f marking toward the external side. Right. So, in tunneling protocols. The recommendation is that at the tunnel ingress. The, originating ECN field be propagated to the outer IP header, So that, Network elements along the path can mark congestion, or they can see the the ECT value and then more congestion, if needed. And then at the tunnel decapsulation, that, the outer mark that's copied into the inner IP header. And there is a I think it's still a draft that provides guidelines for ECN encapsulation. Okay. I know exactly what the status that is, but, there is on this. So since that being, handled already, right, taken care already, So it's like, I just try to get, whether we have something in IT already. That can handle this type of case. So Thank you. I've RFC 6040 biz is the draft that he's talking about. RFC 6040bis. 6040. Thanks, Martin."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "Okay. There are no other questions. We can move on to the next slide deck Alright. Nqbphbdraft. So we're up to draft number 22. I'll be presenting all on behalf of my co authors, Thomas, and Rudiger, you can go on to the next slide. Status, the draft is, we ran a working group last call on this draft a little over a year ago. Were a number of comments that came in during that, last call. And, and even further comments, after the last call finished. We ended up publishing 7 new versions of the document. In 2023, At the last IETF meeting, 118 We had discussed starting a working group last call, shortly after the meeting. I reached out to a few people to ask them to review the Graft as part of the working group last call. And, one of them, jumped the gun and and did a detailed review the working group last call started. And that led to, another draft 22, which, just got published a month ago. Milestone remains to submit this as proposed standard by, December 2023. So we're already past that, but, Hopefully, we can get this wrapped up fairly soon. Next slide talks a little bit about the details of, recent review and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "So, Bob Brusco did a a detailed review I have a link to his comments there. There were a few technical comments and a long list of knits I think all of these have been resolved. I'll I'll just briefly talk about the technical comments first one was that the draft didn't provide any requirements on limiting burstiness from the the pH. So One of the things that had been identified in the l four s drafts as they were progressing was the need to, limit the burstiness, or recommend limiting burstiness of links as support, L4S. Very similarly, it makes sense for, employee tations of the NQB PHB also limit the amount of birthiness that they introduce into the traffic stream that that that continue downstream from them. So a new section was added to, discuss that. Aspect and and requirements around that. Second item, there are a couple of comments related to the section on interoperability with non diff serve capable domains. And specifically the comments, paraphrase here, that there were 3 options provided One is that the upstream domain remarks all NQB traffic to 0, which was the primary recommendation in the draft and then other options were to use traffic protection and only remark the offending traffic. And lastly, use traffic protection and drop the offending traffic. The comments were that, drop should be discouraged in this context that, They're,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:04",
    "text": "The the other, mechanisms are preferred, and, drop us kind of draconian here where, the traffic protection really is not identifying queuing delay that's happening in the downstream domain. It it's just kind of a preemptive traffic protection. And then the second part of the comment was that rather than recommending that remarking all traffic to to 0, rather than than recommending that, is the primary rec recommendation that, traffic protection should be the primary recommendation. After further discussion, with the other authors and, and Bob, we did agree to discourage the, packet drop option but, decided to leave the other 2 options as equal footing, than having one be a primary recommendation and one being an an alternate. So I believe that that resolve, that that pair of comments. And then the other technical technical comments were on traffic protection, there are a few related to that section. So one it wasn't clear. The traffic protection was intended to be implemented. Locally at the PHP node. And then, that, adding to that, confusion was that, policing at the ingress edge was also discussed in that section. So it relapsed, it's unclear as to, what the distinction was there. And so it the ask was for more clarity between,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "traffic protection and traffic conditioning. And, and and really spell that out better. And then, add, The option of reclassifying traffic without remarking as a third possible action. So, the traffic protection section included already, class reclassification with remarking and packet drop as to possible actions. And suggestion here was to at this 3rd possible action. And then there were a few other minor changes. So I think we've tackle all of those, with some significant, changes in section 5.2. Hopefully that makes it a lot more clear for, people who pick this up for the first time. And then the long list of that Bob found, those were all resolved by, late December, put a pointer to the mailing list post where, we discussed all those items. So That's it for the changes in draft 22. And Next slide. So at this point, I think, the authors feel that we have addressed all the changes that team out of working group last call and all change all the changes that came out of comments after working through last call. All that issues in the GitHub issue tracker are closed. So I think the next slide says Let's begin a work working class call. So, Gary joined the queue, but apparently he's having some connectivity issues. Does anybody else have comments"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "on this craft. Alright. I think that's it then. Please, if we start a working group last call, please, review the draft and, Do we find any other issues, other issues And with that, we've completed the agenda for today. 8 minutes early. Thank you all for attending. Thank you, for Taking notes, Stewart? And we'll see you tomorrow. Thank you."
  }
]
