[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "the ones that are has PowerPoint so Fitz where if it\u0027s PowerPoint doesn\u0027t you have a bad fan you have a bad Sam hello good morning we\u0027re gonna get started if someone doesn\u0027t mind can you shut the back door can someone in the back shut the door please thank you welcome to tease I\u0027m blue burger this is Pavan biram next to me we have our secretary Matt Hartley to thank pulling things together for us I believe he\u0027s going to try to be remote although I don\u0027t see him right now [Music] this is the IETF so we have our note well I guess we failed at shutting the back door is that the thing is it\u0027s a little noisy back there we should thank you thanks dieter and Julian appreciate it so I think most are familiar with the note well it basically says that things we do here become part of our record and that anything you say anything you say is added to the record and is made available in our minutes on our recordings and on the audio stream if you\u0027re unfamiliar with the note well please take a look at the URL on the bottom or on at BCP 79 we are streaming audio and video the video is also recorded and posted to youtube please join the etherpad the link is in the usual spot you can find it on the tools page or shown here and please help add to the minutes if you make comments at the mic either go back and check that your comments were accurately reflected and that would be very helpful oh and also that your name is properly captured when you do come to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:05",
    "text": "the mic please make sure to start out by speaking your name for the benefit of the notes and the remote participants so where do we stand on documents we\u0027ve had one recent RFC it\u0027s always nice to have those so that\u0027s that\u0027s great thank you to the authors and all those who contributed to that we have a one document that is being processed that\u0027s going through the IETF processing sorry iesg processing and if you haven\u0027t read the document please make sure you do it\u0027s still pre IETF last call I don\u0027t know if we have an idea of when that might happen Deborah but well our ad will work to get that through an intuitive she can that Mike is apparently not working okay so I believe she\u0027s saying that it\u0027s gonna take another few weeks so so it\u0027ll be in going through processing in April it looks like that Mike is back on so thank you very much for helpful fit for fixing that we have one document that is in last call it\u0027s on the agenda I guess I\u0027ll mention here why it\u0027s back in last call this document was actually in the RFC editor queue which means it had gone through all the approvals to be published and the authors discovered that there was something that was an important change that was needed that part was really good to catch it before publication because if they hadn\u0027t caught it before publication we immediately would have had to start on a revision of it so that part is fantastic the one thing that wasn\u0027t fantastic is they just went and pushed it update themselves while our tooling allows that our process does not once the document is gone to the iesg the working group no longer controls the document more than that even if a working group document the authors don\u0027t control the doctor the content the working group does so there was sort of - let\u0027s call processed fouls it\u0027s not a big deal but there are two process fouls there but once a doc with the iesg the changes that really need to be approved by Deborah before making those changes because they were not the document got kicked out and we\u0027re back having a last call now it turns out if the the right process had been followed we still would have ended up in the same place it just wouldn\u0027t be we wouldn\u0027t have discovered it it we would have been told that we want to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:05",
    "text": "make a change it\u0027s an important change and you can\u0027t do that in the RFC editor queue you have to technical changes have to really be coordinated more carefully than that so that\u0027s where we are we\u0027ll hear more on the technical details and we\u0027re looking forward to seeing that last call complete and getting it back to Debra in the isg hopefully even next week we have three documents that have been adopted I believe at least one of them maybe two of them two of them are on the agenda this is the first session you made it here so you know that information we do have a second session later today so basically we\u0027re going to take a break have lunch and then come back and the big thing is is we are not in this room so if you are coming back please go to the Grand Ballroom apparently that\u0027s my last slide oh no apparently this was just hung up it\u0027s not working in full screen mode for some reason it\u0027s it\u0027s really strange yeah sorry about Italy suddenly having PC problems well sorry about the size but apparently this is as good as it\u0027s going to get we have two sessions the agenda session one agenda has not been changed from what has been posted Session two we have one change the the enhanced VPN document was originally put down lower since it\u0027s a working group document that\u0027s gonna be presented before the design team it doesn\u0027t change the timing it doesn\u0027t change what\u0027s presented the only important thing is note that the that this is a working group document and so the reference here was wrong it had pointed to the earlier non working group document so that was an error on our part in putting together the agenda so that\u0027s been corrected and we\u0027re gonna go in that order so we have received one liaison on the OT standardization work plan the I believe C campus leading the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:08",
    "text": "response to that is that correct yes so I\u0027m seeing that Nell a the C CAP chair nodding his head yes but input is still solicited from the working group please feel free to send it to T\u0027s or directly to C camp either way as usual a couple of reminders we\u0027re following a IPR process where before we enter a document into the working group or before it exits on with a publication request we do a formal poll for or call for statements that IPR has been disclosed the IPR polls are directed to authors contributors editors because they\u0027re listed in the document but really it\u0027s for anyone in the working group who\u0027s participated in the development of the work is asked to respond so feel free to respond to these even if you are not on the receive line and please use the mailing list we definitely allocate time for new work based on discussion so if there\u0027s no discussion on new work you\u0027re at the bottom of the list and if you have a working group document using the list is a great way to resolve issues and you know authors meetings are really helpful but a authors meeting is not a decision for a working group document the decision takes place on the list doesn\u0027t even take place here anything that we do here is also confirmed on the list so the list is very important and this time it really is my last slide and let\u0027s see if this works so hopefully pagedown works okay it seems to be looking this is the set of documents that are not on the agenda today we will go the status of each of those in the next few slides first up is the SMP signaling document we adopted this early this year there were some comments that are raised during the adoption poll there are also some unaddressed comments from previous meetings the authors have indicated that they would address those in the next Rev next or the - PCE native IP documents this experimental work that we adopted last year there haven\u0027t been any changes to the draft since the last IETF but authors however have indicated that at least one of them the scenarios document is ready for last as far as the other document is concerned they would like to wait on it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:08",
    "text": "and update it based on how the solution work progresses so let me ask the first question of the day how many of you have read the current version of the scenarios document see a few hands bit more than what I expected so please do give it a thorough read and bring in your comments to the list given that this is experimental work we tend to move faster with these documents so the chairs would take a call on these after after the meeting next is a pc ECC use cases document a revision for this was published just before the submission deadline the changes are mostly a tutorial there was a section on pcc c4s rv6 use cases that got spruced up thanks for that the authors have indicated that they would like to add more details to the section on PC ECC for SFC use case and also spruce up the security considerations section while they are at it next is the SF aware topology model there was a revision published for this as well the authors have indicated that they would like to make a few additional changes before they can say that it\u0027s ready for a young doctors review next is the RSVP RM our extensions document they haven\u0027t been any updates to this since the last IETF the draft is currently in an expert state the authors have promised that they would revive it this week they are looking for some inputs on signaling for ring topologies using Express link so if you have any suggestions please do discuss that on the list next is the key metric recording draft there was a revision published immediately after the last IETF it took care of some minor a tutorial nets but we really understand we need somebody to help take this past the finish line this has been sitting there for a lot of Airy long time now Matt Hartley has volunteered to do some work on this so we\u0027re gonna give him some a few weeks maybe to get this ready for the next step but it\u0027s really running on a very it\u0027s on we are almost ready to kill it if it doesn\u0027t progress by the next meeting last in the set as the tutorial graph that we have that talks about how to make use of the various T models that we are producing this working group there haven\u0027t been any updates to this draft since the last IETF but the authors would like to get some inputs on what else needs to be added in terms of examples in this document so if you have any solutions please do take it to the list that\u0027s all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:11",
    "text": "we have in this deck next on the agenda is an update on the various T and RSVP models from Turek good morning everyone I\u0027m Tarek from Juniper at this time so on the first presenter I guess so I\u0027ll be giving you a quick update on the working group darts four of them the first has has gone for nineteen three pigeons quite a bit of those then for the second one the last one was just published last a ATF so we\u0027ll give we give an overview next week we\u0027ll give a refresher on the the drafts and what it covers the scope and the updates that we\u0027ve done to them since last time we met and then I\u0027ll close off with the next steps and some open issues there are basic none basically none the first one is the te tunnel draft the draft the document contains two modules the ietf - te yang and that he device hearing the first one covers the non device specific things that can go on a controller and can go on a device and the second is specific to device attributes so the in terms of scope the the model will cover tunnels paths configuring path attributes LSPs and things that can go on the device or off the device as I was mentioning next please so updates to this to this document first this this module both modules defined in this document we\u0027re importing the EE types yang model and that has undergone a couple of revisions it\u0027s right now sitting in IES rearview as Lu was mentioning so we\u0027ve we\u0027ve actually aligned to the changes that we\u0027re done in that imported module and that we proactively applied some of the review comments that we addressed in that module in this in this draft so that we don\u0027t get the same comments again so some of those were the replacement of the hex string type for the binary type and others were like naming conventions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:15",
    "text": "setting defaults where was one of the you know a good thing to mention for other yang modeling activities we got the feedback that setting a default is a good thing usually where it makes sense so we\u0027ve applied this to the T eternal model a couple of examples I\u0027m showing here for the naming convention as well as setting defaults next please the second update that we\u0027ve done is we\u0027re introducing a grouping to define path computation error information that might be produced for specific tunnels or even a computation request so this will cover it\u0027s a bit far for me but it has a timestamp a reason associated with the computation failure and it\u0027s a list where we have multiple of those and the attempts the timestamp for when the error happened and the error reason is right now an identity which can be expanded or if new identities are needed next week so similarly we are introducing a provisioning error information it\u0027s again a list where you know an LS B gets instantiated but it fails to be a provision or instantiate it so we needed a reason for that so we have we have this sitting under the path as well as under the LSP some error information for the LSP will be destructive others are just notification so we can actually display them with vlsb state but the destructive ones we have to display them or keep the state and in a persistent parent attribute so we chose the path for that in terms of the contents of this error information we have a timestamp we have a textual description the node where the error occurred on the path of the era of the LSP as well as possibly where the specific link where the error occurred next week so that was for the de tunneled draft the second one I\u0027m gonna go over is the RSVP signaling draft it contains two modules at the base RGB and some extended features in the RSVP - extended yang module again it\u0027s signaling specific attributes in terms of scope it covers the signaling parameters timers features for enabling certain rzp of features authentication bundling as refresh hellos procession "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:15",
    "text": "her neighbor per interface RSVP attributes next the next two drafts are the rsvp-te augmentation for signaling rsvp-te tunnels and LS fees and the te tunnel MPLS augmentation for the generic tea tunnel in terms of modules there is the RCP - de which is like my augmentation for signaling of the de extensions and then te packet TMDLs for signaling MPLS specific LSPs and then the te - MPLS young module 40 amplest tunnels i guess so the model in terms of scope covers all these attributes and does augment the RSVP based my draft as well as the RCPD features next please so in terms of updates we have extended the LSP provisioning one of the signaling methods for LSP Cesare GP we I did talk about the LSP provisioning list for errors and this is just a mentation of that same list for our CP errors so we are displaying the message that propagated this error back to the head end it can be a path error or reservation delete or whatever it is so we are displaying the the code and sub code as well the RSVP code and sub code as defined in our C 2020 2205 and 3209 that\u0027s it I guess next please so in terms of next steps we have unlisting all the drafts with the next specific next step for those for the tunnels we think it\u0027s a stable it\u0027s in a stable state right now and we would like to request a yang doctor\u0027s review and and then we would like to move to the last call for the RSVP signalling draft again we also think it\u0027s actually in the yang doctors review already but we haven\u0027t got feedback so if we get any any comments we would like to address them and progress to the working group last call the last two drafts we will we anticipate one more revision before we ask for yang doctors review so cheers for the first one we think we\u0027re ready for yankin preserve you oh hi director speaking for the first one I may be less postpone the discussion this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:17",
    "text": "afternoon we try to use this document for MPLS TP LSP setup and we found some gaps and that depends on on whether we want to use the same model or not whether we need to do maybe another update I have a graph this afternoon okay I described some of the gaps that we have in 85 okay and also what I noticed is that if you look at the teeth tunnel model there are many technology specific cases and not all of them are filled into by this model I do I don\u0027t know whether the LED or nor we have to be that it has to be done yeah right for the second part of the question the approach we took is that technology specific augmentations in other drafts will will what happen over the same model or sorry I was talking about the TM gala sorry sorry I confused the empl of year yes yes for MPLS TP though yeah yeah exactly yeah okay so no it is okay sorry I I misread okay yeah TM pls we actually put it down there at the bottom we still need a revision for it okay so we talked about that you in the revision okay good okay so I\u0027m he\u0027s right there your slide sorry no problem so you you don\u0027t have a presentation later on agenda for M + TP I think we can revisit this reading here the first line is the last one sorry no problem I drove Tariq and I were having one discussion offline so I thought like maybe we can use this opportunity to put the concerns out to the working group as well so my concern was with respect to the Yankee model where I wanted to figure out which of the talents or TC initiated and currently in the document I think you only differentiate between configured tunnels and ephemera tunnels but we do not know what is the source of that ephemeral weather it is an auto tunnel maybe Anna Farah maybe baby buy a restaurant if you have created or Wyatt\u0027s PC initiated so I was wondering if this working group thinks that whether that kind of information is useful and it\u0027s maybe a very small update it\u0027s not the big change where you have an ephemeral what is the source of that ephemeral tunnel so wanted to see whether the working group feels said that\u0027s something that should be in the model do you want me to answer or Igor you want take it well I can say that basically it\u0027s a very reasonable request so it will be also consistent with what we\u0027ve done for topologist to know what was the source of the tunnel creation is a useful information probably we also need to put distance as well so that we would not get into the same situation as we got with topologists but but I think I think it\u0027s it\u0027s a simple change and useful one okay I agree with Igor and I would like to say that the origin of instantiation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:17",
    "text": "is we can define that that in the tunnel model like but but if there\u0027s some piece have specific attributes I guess you will be adding those in separate augmentation no P sub specific attributes are already there in the P sub y so we have a reference to your LSPD be right there we store the information but if I want to go to but that will be only the one which PC is aware of Leo\u0027s is a much bigger bottle resource if I want to search from there and find out which are the initiated one I wanted to have a reference there as well fair enough yeah so I put the feedback actually so so adjust to it so for example if you want to array up to my Stannis you won\u0027t want what was the source so you wouldn\u0027t try to optimize bishop initiated tunnels was RSVP or something that yep okay yeah that have a comment is great it also highlights that while the documents have been out a long time or have a long history that we have made progress in other areas and B this is a really good time for everyone to start looking at these documents we eats more reviews of them I know that before this meeting I reread like for example just the base RSVP model and saw a bunch of comments that I\u0027ll send offline okay that you know I frankly I didn\u0027t remember because I hadn\u0027t read it probably in a year so while the documents have been having going under incremental change we\u0027re now or in the endgame and it\u0027s really important to for everyone in the room and in the working group to start rereading these because it would be good to resolve some of these issues even before last call as we\u0027re going into the gang doctor early reviews I\u0027ll agree it really good yep so one one addition to what Lou saying so basically when somebody sees issues with the moon\u0027ll which which are not cleared for example it\u0027s not it\u0027s a very complicated semantics sometimes it\u0027s not clear so we want to know that and we could use this opportunity to put more information into our other drafts like tutorial to explain to make more to be more specific than just to put it in with the model description thank you yeah I know for example there\u0027s one thing in here that I I read it\u0027s a different model of the RSVP model the I think it was I can\u0027t remember it was maybe the rsvp-te model won\u0027t blame you yeah yeah yeah thanks that it wasn\u0027t clear to me where the definition of the behavior is is comes from and it\u0027s perfectly okay for this group to define a configuration behavior that there isn\u0027t a good reference for but then we have to fill in in that same document what the expected behavior is and it just wasn\u0027t clear to me which one it was because the references it was pointing to some references but it didn\u0027t make any sense to me so you know so it may be that I just have to send something to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:18",
    "text": "list and ask for a clarification and the explanation will be oh this is a better reference or yeah we\u0027re actually doing some new behavior and I can\u0027t tell right now okay so even if you have just a question sending it to the list so we can get that clarification text it\u0027d be really good and it will help the authors as well to find where we to clarify definitely so yeah you encouraged working group to give feedback Thank You Lou okay and by good comment thank you thanks I think she fun so this is an update on the l3t topology model and sr t topology model the l3p topology model has a change that talks about information source this changes the same thing that we made in the base topology so so sure thing if you can talk about that aspect when you get to that slide that would be useful sure it\u0027s actually almost more important to cover that piece because that\u0027s where we have last call going on right now so it\u0027d be really good sorry it\u0027d be really good to cover that and highlight that as as part of the last call that\u0027s closing on Friday I don\u0027t know if you want to jump there first and then come back and do the rest of the presentation so I know I\u0027m taking you off welcome to that last slide here so we this is also apply to the phase t to Coronado so we got the feedback from the implementations and there are some use cases where different protocol instances of the same protocol type could provide some to poetry topology information to the Mogul to the database so in that case the model would not sufficient to identify which instance of the protocol provided the information so to accommodate this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:18",
    "text": "kind of use case we added a leaf to the information source structure to indicate which instance of the protocol so the changes are very simple it\u0027s a 1 additionally whenever we have information sauce so beside the information source type we have instance ID there so but we will know which instant instance this is coming from through path that\u0027s the change so the same changes now as I come to this I smarty it apologies so does anyone have any questions or reservations about this change in the te topology document that\u0027s great since we\u0027ve been through this a number of times on the te topology sorry we\u0027ve been through the process of last calling the the whole of the tea topology document and this is the only change unless we hear objections we are expecting that we will republish and resubmit for publication the teen topology doctor I should say we actually it\u0027s only me because put pavones a co-author so he\u0027s recused on this so I expect that I\u0027ll be stress emitting this unless I hear objections either in this room or on the list on by Friday and if not early next week will resubmit and get back in in the processing of it ok great so let\u0027s get back to your right so I\u0027ll give a quick updates to to working with documents the first one is the layers routine at a party by the way this is too familiar from water networks so next slide please so here\u0027s our augmentation our hierarchy the layer three-tier topology model arguments layer Street about you know the witches had been already published and the RFC I think has 83 46 the augmentation this model will also reference the pasty to Parliament also make it a key of capable so we also to accommodate the packet nature of the topology so we also argumented tea based partly model to cover the packet specific features so the on the right side of the tour yellow boxes showed the changes recently introduced the tea tea "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:21",
    "text": "types and the tea tea packet types those two models are now moved to new draft T types next slide please so those are the changes we also made to this model so that well your the newly introduced the document so we\u0027re the new tea types and the typical types from the no drafts necessary another change we plan to do not done yet is the performance metric on the ceiling and the coating we are continuing from the teeth the fund matrix to a matrix and the model that he theater party model a link in the search party is a unit action link so to make could make that performance metric consistent with the nature of the ceiling we plan to remove the leaves which is a related to a two-way performance metrics make it this structure only one way next slide please so not much changes but so we confirmed this change and have further review going to the next type that\u0027s about it the this drives the next night another draft changes and reporting here is the SR and the good question and it\u0027s really on the previous one and it\u0027s it\u0027s an inherited thing what this throttle mean to you or what do you expect throttle behavior to be no specified in the FC referenced here so they\u0027re trying to cover the user to configure a certain shorter value only when the performance like delay going beyond and certain throttle value then the triggers updater so the only thing in those RFC is about throttling is throttling control playing messaging yeah so this is only for control plane messaging it\u0027s not for data plane because we could apply he also when okay so that\u0027s an example of where there\u0027s not a definition of that anywhere and we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:23",
    "text": "all know people do that right and that\u0027s fine to configure behavior that is an industry norm but we have to define what the expected behavior is when someone sets this and I know you\u0027re inheriting this from the base model and so this is more a comment that I\u0027ll send on the base model but it\u0027s a he had it up there so I had to make the comment the comment yep who\u0027s come from telefónica one question here how do you how you can ensure that the accuracy of this one-way matrix because they\u0027re one which a note can perceive is a one-trick time because you have the same time reference and so so the wrong metric let\u0027s say is that one free time the one one way delays somehow should be processed starting from this round three time or either leveraging on the measurement of the two end points so it seemed that is keeping the the two-way matrix probably could in introduce some kind of errors in the matrix you don\u0027t have a proper accuracy system and in order to ensure that one way metric is correct so what you\u0027re saying is you rather have the two-way matrix here to make it a more measurable of what\u0027s funny is that keeping the two wave matrix is he that\u0027s not damaged let\u0027s say the model having the one-way delays also okay you have the system that could provide this one way we laid matrix with accuracy but yeah yeah I would say that I\u0027m I\u0027m not sure about that but how we can ensure that we measure properly they the universal one with layered at all but I think they keep in the two-way it\u0027s not bad but the mother is the interface right so that\u0027s the we are not talking about how to make it I create are helpful to the measurement that\u0027s the III can answer that sure so when we delay requires the clock synchronization between the two endpoints but if there is no clock synchronization then you do the two-way means the roundtrip and then you divide by two so the use case for the traffic engineering is one way so the both I size which are FC OSPF and the BGP Alice that just became an RFC they all defined a one-way metric for the path competition use case so you can still do the two-way measurements but then the use case is one-way so you had a divided by T right so even if you to the two-way measurement and then you divide by 2 coz "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:24",
    "text": "of one-way delay so here that the from the user perspective we still only want to see the one-way today all right so from the interface perspective why do we want to have the two-way information there just to show friends remark basically what about bi-directional link which is not symmetrical so for example if we get bi-directional metric so how it improves accuracy in one direction so that\u0027s why I basically we consider bi-directional link is a group of two unidirectional link and and provide separate metrics for each direction either had a mine on I think it would help he said brother yang work add the reference I think Tom constantly makes that remark so you know I\u0027d like Lou said add a reference for throttling and for these metrics it\u0027s not for us to debate the validity of these metrics we just configuring them so you just add the reference sure yeah let that apply to all the documents have the similar kind of features I assume the TT handles and others annexed document the list I saw an SRT topology this recap of the hierarchy which is same argument to the Maori Party next slide please so make advanced RTE so we have a multiple inheritance which is te at the same times also I saw so in that sense we import I saw specific groupings and also the argument the theater party model nice-nice please the changes are simple so we because of the update recent update to the spring as a young model so we need to update our core p2 cut you think with the new model next price this one we already talked about then that\u0027s all we have for today "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:30",
    "text": "so I\u0027m not sure how many actually followed this particular slide there is no such thing as an SRT topology module defined in the document so if anybody is interested in fetching the SRT topology they would have to they would have to fetch the SR topology and the l3t topology independently that\u0027s the multiple inheritance thing that roofing is talking about here so I mean a if anybody has any concerns about this approach now would be a good time because we we are getting to the last few revisions for this before taking it to the next step okay Jaedong from Hawaii yeah I\u0027ll try I\u0027m just asking about the SRT topology model because I checked the draft there\u0027s the I start topology model defined but I didn\u0027t find it SRT topology model in the draft that\u0027s right there\u0027s no such model so we\u0027re just a constructor instance make it I saw at the same times as te so if you have both then I must have missed something we read it and then figured out supposed to work but it takes it\u0027s not honest some additional tanks there about how to make the work would be really good I think lavon\u0027s point good one of this is that this is a particular approach or solution approach that\u0027s been taken in the draft we could take a different approach which combines the information ceiling to go to one place the flipside of that is then you have the same information available to monoliths and that also is not considered to get a great design approach so there\u0027s a there is a trade-off here all right thanks so this is the updated woman that came during the session or came just before hopefully there\u0027s no caching involved and we have the right one but you might have the old version yeah but there is a new version that was uploaded during "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:31",
    "text": "session so hopefully we have it yeah okay and such abilities from Nokia I\u0027m going to present update about pod computation young model request next slide so the summary of changes we just packed the previous version basically we we added the wuzzle there has been some discussion in the mini list requesting the possibility to set up a path that is already computed using pod computational PC the pod competition which is stateless catalytically there is no memory of of the pod computed so we added a procedure in order to maintain some temporary state that enable a client to require the setup of the the tunnel related to the computed path the client can request the setup Avada of a computed part creating a Tia tunnel with the same name with respect they computed the computed path of the the name of the completed part basically exploiting the NDA concept is a story in the operational State from server and the client can utilize the same name and provided the setup of the tunnel in the run data store they there is a possible problem of stranded state to avoid that there is a in case you request up the possibility to add this feature up at Gd you have to set up a default timer to request the the path computation request and an option you can also use a transaction be the transaction will be that can encompass all paths computed under one request and one that one part has been computed the other that has not useful and Mora can be deleted linked to this transaction this can be done or by a EPC the later PC that has been already defined or automatically basically the the behavior is more similar is similar to what is computed only in the in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:31",
    "text": "theater kn\u0027l but obviously relying on the fact that the path computation is is stateless and and so need to have another mechanism the solution has been described in Chapman\u0027s section 3.3 at 3.3 dot 1 and reflecting also the discussion they has been the the other changes this is the basic changes that is parting also the young model then the the young model has been also aligned to the last version of young TIA types and the young a young model staff for which we have normally coordination weekly for to align and to be not to not create some gap between to so they call there is a next to next life so this for the changes then there has been a couple of items that has been discussed in the mailing list one issue that is a new one and basically the the Robina required if the our path computation young model can be also used in case of distributed part computation distributed environment so is a flat basically if you read the draft there is a assumption and use case is described in which always there is a hierarchical structure of the controller so the request here is that in case you have multi operator environment it is not it is not mandatory that you have the possibility to have a multi domain coordination that is able to coordinate a different domain if this domain are belonging to different operators so we try with the with the beach okay this one is not the last one the picture okay okay anyway caching involved okay go back again just try to okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:35",
    "text": "we tried yet to depict a picture to show how in fact the model can also match the requirement for a distributed contest well basically the picture has been changed because there is there has been commented that in case you have multi operator environment it is not mandatory to have a full link of connectivity between a controller and mdac and the other PNC but you have a bilateral session but basically the point is that in the city and architecture there is no mandatory that the mdac a PNC should be different different device you can have also P\u0026C that has the MVC functionality and basically here we try to depict like a sequential status like the RPC to create in order to cope with the requirement to have also a distributing value for that computation next step in in depth in the new picture that we can see in the next version you can understand better what is the status well this is a DC issue you have a question on the previous issue or no the question of the first issue that he mentioned about the state stateful path computation basically is it okay to know or should or should I wait I can wait no no yeah so basically when we discuss when we discussed path computation RPC for the tunnel model okay the whole point was to provide a mechanism to do starless path computation okay so where there was a lot of discussions especially with Michael sharp and other people who actually insisted that it is it is a must to have starch a mechanism with respect to stateful past computation basically we had solution from from the get-go right so you could compute a tunnel in a compute only mode analyze path and instantiate tunnel at any time so you can keep it for as long as you want or as short as you want and that\u0027s it so I don\u0027t really understand what exactly the new additional what is required the additional one has been "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:36",
    "text": "already discussed because you we analyzing the draft what is the gap and the problem with also depart the path computation only solution and here we just tried optionally to get the possibility to have the possibility to calculate the Patent Act as already computed and the client can ask for the computed path while normally in the case of of stateless situation you don\u0027t have this possibility to ask later this is the difference but we exploit on the fact that we have NDA MD a new definition and so we do not attack the configuration stored but we just use the operational State and to store what is the information the transit information for the path computation and beep and at the give the possibility to the client to require the instantiation the path computation so related to the path computation only solution there are a bin Aradia discussion this is just an optional feature that we can provide to the client sees in the mailing list there was requested to do that but with path computation request not with a lot of things but what you described it\u0027s exactly how the puffs compared the set of Tunnel in Pasco purification mode is supposed to work basically you ask yeah but ego we address this discussion and at the point is that they they for the part competition only solution the tunnel model there is all the connectivity but Rick\u0027s that has to be applied with all the information so there is all the offloading the of this information this D stuff already described in the in the draft it is not in the contest of the parallelism of the to feature a bigger I think you are missing one point in this case at the state is temporary so the difference is that with a computer lead line the client creates the state and and the path remains computing in the state for forever as long as as long as the client doesn\u0027t delete the state in this the status par computation you don\u0027t create any state and this is something in the middle where the state is remembered by the server for some time and allows the client to request to istil install exactly the same path that has been computed without going into to complete a stateful solution well but we can just set the time our you know time limit as to how long the the computer pass for the tunnels would be over there and that\u0027s it I don\u0027t think so because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:36",
    "text": "you have a state in there running at the store if you create please make sure to come back on time at 150 in the Grand Ballroom a little intro and then you will take up hopefully with the right slide down okay so you can upload the right thing it was uploaded just download blue sheets I\u0027m gonna I actually know I didn\u0027t catch it wasn\u0027t that it was necessary the cache didn\u0027t update but to get the new version you have to hit literally because the way they do the lakes they do an explicit link to the ocean which is system they just removed in series version in the latest version "
  }
]