[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:03",
    "text": "It's been about I looked it up. It's been about a year, though. Or Yeah. So maybe on your last call, it's good. Yeah. Maybe so. Yeah. But, I mean, I'll leave that to you, of course. Yeah. That's up to you. And for the next 2, I'm gonna ask about adoption. I presented in San Francisco. Or else presented one of them in San Francisco at least represented already. someone For toilis's draft you know, I don't think we're able to adopt it. The RTS. Resources. Yeah. May maybe we can consider adoption, I'm not I'm not sure. I think, actually, he he's I think in his slides, it's say something about next steps and stuff. I think there's more maybe so be no adoption yet. we may Of and Jeff Reese is the new draft. just Okay. Yeah. There's one more track that I found. I gotta send it to you, but kinda like the MOF a horror. I totally forgot about it. I'll find it. It's a year draft and somebody else. That We worked on it, like, a year or so ago, and it just kinda Oh, really? I need to I'll find it. I'll let you know which one I'm talking about. I can't remember what one it But, anyway yeah. is. Yeah. Yeah. Have you used to pull here by the way or not necessarily that there's like an artificial beach and all kinds of stuff there here. Is that correct? can check that out. I'll have all day tomorrow. I'll be able to get that. Fits I really nicely. Like, even, like, lifeguard a real life. Left type of towers. Oh, really? Is it along the river? Yeah. Okay. I'll check it out. leave till Sunday, so I don't you know, I mean, you know, you just show you something guess but let's see. If I do settle out here, how do I do that?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "And they'll have to do it on, like, the phone Anyway, I'll look it up. Get a So So, you know, we are here. And over here, Yeah. Over here somewhere. Oh, really? Beaks and really big kind of pool metrics like you are in the ocean kind of Oh, fine. I'm I'm also not a small pool. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Let's get started. Oh, it is? Okay. We'll talk about our families and our music preferences. Yeah. I know. I'm good. Go ahead. Go ahead. Yeah. It's all you. Teachings. K. Welcome to Ping everyone. So we got a large enough room today. Let's get started. So Okay. This is the note. Well, I hope you have seen this already. It's already Friday. So okay. Next one, yeah, we'll see the license. Okay. Thanks. Alright. This is the agenda any, any comments on the agenda? Anything we should change Are we good? Alright. By the way, are you checking the queue and stuff, or do we see that here, I guess. If there's some app. Yep. Okay. So, next slide then. Yeah. I guess I can run this 2. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So we'll start on the status of the current working group documents, So we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "Been working on progressing. I GMP worse in 3 and MLD worse in to through Internet standard. So we have these 4 best documents here. Did do, last column in the first 3. And we're all good, I think, except for one issue raised about fall back to a person to when you see an older carrier, we're gonna discuss that later. In this meeting, We're also revising 112, which is the original, like, hosts, it's called anyway. It's like how our house should do multicast. It's like, Steve Dearing RFC from very long back. The thing is it talks about host requirements for multicast but it only talks about ipv4. So, so we wanted to add a few things to to that and and also progress that. Rfc. Then they have 2 drafts about Doctor improvement or backup Doctor that we still should work on that at some point. The draft has just been idling for a few years. Okay. Let's to Yep. But, yeah, please, and speak up by yourself to the queue. If you have any comments or us to learn anything. Okay. So I'll continue with some more drafts. We got, some, point to multi point drafts that, we will discuss today. Shortly after this, and also pin lights and and some, joint print extensions for lists as well. It's on the agenda today. Then they got this, MoFR you know, there was it stands for the TILFA dressed. So I believe we might be ready for doing a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "last call for that d he offers, believe it's ready and asked us a while ago if we could do a last call. So we'd like to check, check. Yeah. If you believe it's it's ready to start a working group last call. So we're gonna start that poll for that. So this is not the actual last call. It's just whether you think we It's in good enough shape to start the last call on the list. And they'll also check this on the list, of course. So, yeah, if you believe it is ready for last call, please answer yes to the poll, otherwise, answer, no. Any other results and no opinion option, I see. Is that gonna show up on the recording? Or do you wanna heat and Recording Like, if we watch the video later, will that movie be seeing this screen. Yeah. It pops up on your scraying And then when you say it's about Because I'm at the end of oh, okay. Okay. Great. Okay. Okay. Yeah. We can try to, of course, save the numbers, but that that is good. Okay. So I think we're good about yeah, five people say yes for have no opinion And no one was saying that one. So, take it to the list. Start a last call if there's no no complaints about that. Okay. We got an EVPN multicast young draft. This is something that normally would have been done in this. But they have a very very busy, What's she saying? They have a lot lot of documents there. They are have they are struggling to cope"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "doing all they should be doing. And, you got the purchase with young multi cost models here. So, So the best chairs, We discussed it with them, and we figured it was best to to do it here in PIM. We should still, have it reviewed. And and when we do our last call, Beth should also be looking at it, but at least we are doing the the main work in this working group. But, yeah, we're not not the obviously, is that? Yeah. That is on the agenda. I was also, so we will talk more about it soon. And then we got, urgent PML is sleeping young model draft, not the discussed today. And lessons learned that, we will discuss later today. And finally, let's see. Least works No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So we got some several documents that we recently adopted on, On on multicast discovery, a 0 con what you would wanna call it but you're not discussing them in this meeting. Alright. That was the status, in the comments before we start on on the Agenda. The presentations, presentations, Okay. Let's go. Hey, Hermann. You've got several presentations here. Alright. Perfect. So the first one is the pink light. If you can go to the next slide, please. So we did have a interim call with the Stig and some of the other folks."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "We did change some of the paragraph sentences in the draft. To make it more readable. Yeah. It was great help. Thank you. But there there was no major conceptual changes. There were some additional, information that was added for security purposes. Basically, the security stays the same. As the previous RFCs for PIM SSM and SM. And, we can use the ideas in those RFCs for security consideration as well. For beam light. So in in essence, again, there were some you know, changes for better reading. Nothing major has change in this draft. In version 2 compared to version 1. Next slide, please. So I guess the question is, is this good enough for the working group? Is this clear enough something that we can I agree to go to the last call, or do we need to have some additional work put into this draft? I think that's where we are in. Adam, So we'll start gonna go ahead and start a poll. Okay. She's gonna chair it. So, Yeah. Sure. And sanzality, as the chef girl of this draft, I think this structure, has been good shape and thank you for the all stars for your valuable work. And, if I remember right, causer. Main comments has been all addressed. So I think this has ready for working group last call. Down. Okay. Yeah. Can may maybe add that, yeah, both Mike and I are the call first of this draft. So that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "why we are having some help with with this document. Yep. Alright. Okay. Yeah. So we're doing this poll here, So please respond about you. Whether it's ready for lost call or not. Oh, yeah. Okay. So Thank you so we'll be pinging you in the next couple of weeks to issue the and the former working group last call on the list. We've done this informal working group last call. It's there's seven people in in support of it. Which looks pretty good. But since you're sharing this one you're gonna have to send an email to the working group in s. For a Michael. Yeah. Sandy is gonna chair this working group last call for this draft. Okay. I I can try to, start the working group last call for this drop. And if I should ask her the marinist for some feed the bike. The walls, Sure. Okay. I think I'm If there is no response, it means that there is no objection. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. I will try. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. Yes. Tahira. Yeah. I would say in general, it's it's it's kinda hard to get responses to working with plus calls. I I wish people would be more responsive and and we should try to beg people to respond if they can, But, yeah, this difficult at times to get last call responses. Sort of I just But, yeah, see, we got 9 people saying yes here and no."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "No no's or no opinions. So we'll stop the polling. Say, And we've got 2 more pulls coming up, so just be ready. Okay. I'm good with that one. Okay. So point to multi point policy thing. Next slide, please. Just to give you a little bit of overview of what's happening in this whole, point to multipoint policy, domain, if you will. So we did have our RFC RFC 92 9524. For the segment routing replication seat and the replication segment. So, basically, as you folks know, this RFP he talks about their replication segment in MPLS and CAPP and in SRV 6, both of them, Now that that has gone through. There's 2 other major, drafts in pain. So the one for SR point to multipointpolicy talks about the policy itself. What the policy is is basically, a replication policy that you can bind to a provider tunnel? Whether it's a PIMZ sitting in under the MVPN, or whether it's, a tunnel that is being used in the based routing or global routing table. Basically, it gives a binding point between those replication segments in RFC 9524. To the application, whatever the application is. So that's what the SAR point to point policy. Is all about And it does, I think, couple of drafts ago, we did the SRV6 component."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "Of the replication segment. To the team as our point to multi point policy. Draft. We have not added anything new for the past couple of IETF. And the reason for that is, we've been working hard on the PCE part of it. There might be some changes in the pin draft which I don't think so, depending on what happens in the PCE, working group with the PCE solution. Again, I don't think that's gonna be the case. I I think as you will see later on, the PIM SR point to multi point policy is pretty stable. So the next one is the ping itself. Again, we we do have an implementation for that, but, like, we are open to to discuss. I think one thing I wanna bring up, right off the bat is there are some implementations for this point to multipoint policy. So you know, if there are any comments you know, concerns, Please please bring them up right now. Because Otherwise, if you guys know better than I do. If the code starts getting typed into the into all these routers, then changing it not trying to be difficult, but it's gonna be harder. Right? To change this to apps. So now is the time to bring anything into the into the equation. I and there's a comment you wanna go, or Jeff? Yeah. Might as well have open covers. Yeah. Okay. Very quick clarifying question. The last bullets IDR is happy to be policy. Need to progress the work here or No. Sorry. That's just my broken English. I I I think I'm trying to say that you're trying to progress the work as in revived the draft. I think we haven't worked on it for Sorry that. about Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "Thomas Eckard. Yeah. Sorry. I haven't been finding time to follow the whole step at all. Just, one fairness question has implementation and, and, you know, known support for all of this reach the same level that we had to reach with beer to go from experimental standards. I guess this is all asking for standards. Right? So It was just wondering, right? Maybe, you know, if there is not enough, maybe it should also start out as experimentalists, and of the Only process question coming to mind. So, I mean, I'm not gonna talk about other vendors. I don't I don't wanna get in hot water, and I don't wanna get in trouble. But, like, on Nokia's side, We do have, live customers that they do not use the piece of part of it. They they just use the yang. And, they kind of connect the replication segment to a unicast as our policy or as our a seedless, so, yeah, there are live customers that are just using the Yang to to to make this up. I think the the main part is the hardware. Right? So the indication through a sit or so in hardware that seems very likely to be supported already by multiple vendors. Yeah. So, again, great point. I think for when it comes to MPLS, for all means, is the same as, LDP or RSVP, right, it comes MPLS. That's what I don't know, right? So I haven't haven't followed. But, yeah, that's fine then. Thank you Yeah. Yeah. So so, again, just to be clear to everybody, even though we call it a replication segment when you go into the Dialpad, it is, by all means, MPLS label that has a bunch of OAFs. So I I think Jeffrey gonna talk about it. So at at at the replication points, there are states, like, MLDP or point to multi point RSVPT. When you try it, the only"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "I shouldn't say the only the 60 part about it is it tries to marry Unicast, and multicast, So you can connect 2 replication segments through a unicast domain via unicast Sidleys, or via unicast as our policy. So as you will see in the other draft that, other slide that is coming up, the feedback we are getting is that you know, having a multicast tree end to end sometime is a problem child. Having this marriage between unicast and multi gas. So some portion of the network, you can go with a unicast tunnel, that is kind of bind it to your multicast seed It is very helpful. Anyway, I'll I'll talk about that later with later on. Next to slide, please. So I think first thing about this draft is only it only, addresses, the MPLS OEM part of it. It doesn't address the SRV 6. So the SRV6 OEM part of it, there are some paragraphs sitting in the in the point to multiplying, Sorry. Team point to multipoint as our policy. So we put some paragraph in there. I don't know. I need to talk to the other co artists to see whether we need to have a draft for a service fix on its own. But this one specifically only addresses the MPLS part of we added some security section, under the draft again, feel free to go read it, but, like, anything else because this is very close to MPLS, MLDP or point to multiple RSVPD. We could, from security perspective, we could kind of piggyback on the existing RFCs. And I guess last but not least, there's implementation of it. Alyssa and Nokia, sir."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "Next slide, please. So I think the MPLS working group has been involved in this I think chair's here and me me and myself tried to ping them a couple of times I didn't get any comments. And the fact that, you know, we have implemented this kind of case gives us a fuzzy feeling But, yeah, I I I don't know whether this thing is ready for last call or, you know, how do we wanna go proceed. With this draft going forward. Yeah. I think it's kind of a long discussion with with that covers a lot of things including recharging, but a reminder, we did have a long discussion, with MPLS working group chairs and great to working on these documents. That the replication segment draft is a published RSC I don't see any reason as it shared, the 2 not progress these drafts. This one, I'm the one that you're gonna be presenting next. Unless you see it differently. So you you mentioned something about OEM parts that may need a separate draft and So I'm wondering, Is it that chance that you will want to take some stuff out of this draft or make some further change to it. Or for for a service, I mean, Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No. I I think this one And that's why we separated because I think there are 2 different beasts. Even on the unicast side, when it comes to SRV6, there's a different OEM draft and MPLS They're just way too different, so I don't think there's gonna be much So the way you see it, you you don't really plan any further changes. No. Yeah. And and that's exactly, you know, we fell into the unicast part of the trapped where you try to do segment routing as a whole. Between MPLS and s rv6. And it becomes too complicated. Right? So this is why"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "exactly why we separated the 2 because we feel point to multipoint policy with MPLS is really ready to go out, sir. You know, why make the everyone's life miserable? Mhmm. What do you think? It Yeah. It might be might be ready. Do we So, by the way, Debbie, If we do a last call, I guess we should also send that to to springworking group, them to review and Yeah. The the way that we kinda worked it is that, these these are our documents, but we will be running everything by them. Just so that they know, but the likelihood of them responding, like you said, is probably pretty low. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So Okay. So, maybe we should ask the room about yeah, Last call, and let her call. The ping 1 first, I guess. That's what you just presented. Yeah. So if yeah. So we have this poll now whether you think Point to point multi point to multipoint policy ping is ready for last call or not. So based on Yeah. If if if it turns out that people think it's ready, then we would, take it to the list next."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:04",
    "text": "Lots of no opinion votes. I see. Okay. Yeah. So Yeah. So not too much responses here, but, As long as there's know, as as long as there is no one against it, I would say we can we can do a last call on the list and people will have the chance to to speak up demo course. Okay. So okay. So we got oh, they got all the polls down there. Let's see. So Okay. So we got 1, yes, and 6, no opinion. 0. No. Okay. Then we'll do the same for the other draft, I guess. Same thing. More Yep. issues. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I might as well do the same thing for So maybe next slide. this. Yeah. Just to give you a little bit of status of the draft. Again, we haven't made much changes to the draft, but we think it's a stable There are implementations out there. Whatever it we are, you know, a static configuration, yang, or whether it's, you know, we are precept. There are their implementation. You are working on the COMM and precept draft. So, and when that's ready, you know, multiple vendors can program their replication segment via same piece of communication between the PCE and the PCC. One feedback that I can give you is that, you know, service 6 being the, the new sexy thing out there. There is interest in a multicast solution for SRV6 And, you know, this thing being, SRV 6 replication seed, kind of fits well into that domain."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "And the general feedback for the working group is We we we get a lot of feedback that having a multicast 3 end to end going through ISPs or through some segments of the network that is, your we are mandating multicast. That that is a pain for some of the operator router. So they do like this flexibility of marrying multi on unicast together. So whatever you need to have, unicast forwarding. You can very simply by adding, like, as a policy or ipv6 center on top of your OIF outgoing interface. We can shoot your multicast traffic, multiple hop over a unicast domain. So this is something important to them. And they are really giving us feedback that, you know, they might need only a couple of replication points throughout their network. For caching or for, sending data into edge cache points. So I mean, this technology, whatever technology that marries multicast and unicast. Is beneficial to them. Next to slide, please. Yeah. Again, as I mentioned previously in the ping, think this is a point that if there's any suggestions or comments you know, please bring it if you haven't read the draft inside out. Please do it. Bring in the comments and the suggestions. And, you know, based on that, you know, we wanna see whether it's ready the last call or not k. They just started to pull."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:08",
    "text": "So same person thinks it's right. Oh, one more. it's, And it's not Humana, but I guess, It's a V Twelve. It takes a while for it to ramp up. Okay. There's more more yeses here, actually. Yeah. It looks like we're good. Three people. Yes. One more opinion. 0, no. So, yeah, we'll take this to the list and Yeah. But also, look into what's review when it's across other working groups. Thank you. Thanks. Thank you so much, Bruce. Yeah. Mira. Yeah. Yeah. That's lovely. Right. Tourless is awesome. I'm with them. Hi, Mike. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. Good morning. I'm from. And now let me introduce some some updates about about the UAP and money cost, yamamoto. An s freeze after, this trial passed the work, has the the has the working group adoption call. We have updated we have to some, we have done some updates,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "according to the comments, Last piece. The draft update 1. And even as a segment identifier type, defining in the IITF, in that segment, y'all has been deleted. So the title of the leave, needs to be updated. We have changed changed the tab to young, high string, that's 12 2029. Next week. Okay. After you 2, when it's when it's spouse, a surprise either. HMP proxy or MLD proxy. Tax rates to, 8 route might be added under the European rules. So We added the following. You if if feasible statement if if you feature European IGMP policy, all EVPM MLD proceed. This fee will we will have the the free And that's please but but hierarchy, has not changed. This is the details for the 3 a new new Okay. And that's Oh, well, we welcome more comments Thank you. Hello? Any questions for Hoangji? This is a recently adopted Draft. If not, thank you. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "Tourless. And it's the Yeah. The best. So, 1112 best. Oh, the 1112. Okay. Right. So this is just a short a status update of, no work happening. No. A little bit. Yes. Next slide. Sorry. That so this is this is the site. So yeah, So just small bug fixes in the text. And, I think the main open issue is whether we should refer to the existing IGMP, V3 and MLD V2, RFCs or, you know, already hopefully put the new versions in there and kind of, create a cluster. I'm totally open to that. I don't think we need to rush this document, out to, to get full standards checked. Again, before we do the same with the 2 other graphs. So I do think functionally for us and work wise, they are a cluster. And I'm, I'm missing more feedback for know, the, which we'll have at the discussion of, the, 3376 BIS. What we do about them and yeah, so the main point, I think, is just to find more reviewers I'm, I don't want to look at anybody in particular here directly, but, So that's what I've been trying to, to do, but, you know, most people don't even remember what IP multicast is. So there aren't that many that would be helpful other than, I guess, the ones we would get from the ISG as soon as, we do pass it working group last call. Right? So I think this is just something we need to keep alive to figure out what to do with our class and then then move it on. And, yeah, please, you know, review it. If you can It's a nice read. So the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "Yeah. The guy whom whom I learned marketing multicast from, called it the Bible of multicast. So that's why it's, was bold. Right? So Yeah. That that's that's it. Right? So Did you have a chance? I mean, Hey. Bill Fener, Arista Networks. Yeah, I have not yet had a chance. I hope to this week. But, I I will put my hand up and say, I will review this document. Thank you. Yeah. Steve here. So the other best documents already did that last call and, we have some issue with one of these costs about one of them, but I think they should progress pretty quickly. So I think re referring to them, re referencing them would be fine and really in a delay. Yeah. So as an individual, I think it's a good idea to reference the best documents. Yeah. Yep. Me. So this is also a document that we're not rushing forward. We're taking our time with and creating a story with regards to the historical perspective of the development of multicast protocols, some of the lessons learned and the challenges that we face. And the hope is for people as they've expressed to us particularly in the IETF to understand you know, why are certain protocols no longer being used. And so, for the last, I don't know, maybe a year now. We've been slowly working on this Draft and adding protocols and to helping this the story, if you can go the Next slide. Yeah. If you can go to the next slide, well. I've shared that one a few times. Yeah. So this is what it currently looks like."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "We added before each IETF, we just have as a goal kinda add a new section. And so this time we added, AMT and treaty n. AMT was mentioned in the previous section, the all or nothing problem section and we developed it for the, for a section on its own. Lenny's kind of been going on a tour lately, and he, shared a really good presentation at the recent Nanonog if you're interested. As well as a a podcast talking about these two things. So, It kinda continues to further that story of the all or nothing progress pro problem where you have to have all your routers supporting multicast And if they don't, what do you do? Well, you can tunnel around it in a variety of ways. And EMT is one way to go about doing so and a particular solution called treaty n. Which is being developed in another working group mop think it is. Is something that, is being architected. Greg. Always. Yeah. You hear me? Good. Yeah. Greg, and especially refuse. So I owe you text. Wanna acknowledge that program context. And, it is I am working on tell him I actually wrote a little bit on the way here when I realized I haven't published anything yet. So before a Vancouver, the hope to ship. Okay. Alright. It's on the record. Very good. So, It's We've received a fair amount of feedback. Again, and we'll be probably working on this for a while. So we open it to anybody. If you see a missing protocol that we're not addressing yet. If you think the story is not quite the way it should be, just let us know Hitoshi. Alright. So what do you think about, discussion about, Marchcast other scheme."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "So and, I remember just So you work four times before meeting. There are words, some proposal about the address dynamic allocation and so on. So that was actually previously discussed the like IMS, Nippon, so on. So we had lot of experience about that kind of dynamic address assignment skewer. Right. still, But somewhat who maybe don't know the our histories and they May also want to try the very similar approach, but We already had a discussion, I don't know. It was actually failed as a deployment consideration or not. But, anyway, we had experience. So maybe it's good to point out already had a Subaru approach and, white, Was successful or not successful? I'm not sure. So maybe such kind of discussion is really useful as well. Great point. I fully agree. We will add that for the next one. Fact, we are work there's some drafts that we have recently adopted in this working group on, group allocation address, address, allocation and, how to disseminate that. So I think that's part of the story and we can talk about the historical perspective. Yeah. And also, the You said ST and STL, but I the SDR is not a protocol itself. So the passive protocol If you want to talk about that kind of waste the all OSD. Maybe it's also better to show the stack sap. Yeah. Had a lot of program about self announcement. It's a lot of something like a flatting and we had Maybe. Flover, maybe So I made this kind of It's his full car."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "Topic is also useful for the, maybe, future work. Which is related to the I'll resassignment That's all. Great point. Will do. Thank you. Any others? I think I I sent a couple of of different tech options to you a long time ago. So I I haven't tracked if if if any of that got included on it. Yeah. It did. And we put you in the, contributors. So, yeah, it's we included, portions of it anyway. I don't know if we've covered everything. K. So, Thank you. I I think just in general, right? So I think the shared resource tree rights, I would love to see in the whole director, of course, SSM as as a title. Right? So just from the high level structure. Right? So just, meet with the marketing ad on. Right? Yeah. We do cover SSM quite a lot, but it. Maybe it needs to be in a title of a section. Alright. We need to move along. Thank you. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So, yeah, this is Stig. So, be doing working group last call on these biz documents to progress IGMP and Emily to Internet standard. And for the RGMPU 3, document. There were some comments about fall back to, to GMP worse than 2. So next slide, I think. So the issue is basically that, as I understand it,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:03",
    "text": "is that if there is some device on the link that sends an IP over into a quiring Then everyone pulls back to a GMP version 2, which means that you, you know, you come to SSM anymore. Because when you see an RGP versus your carrier, the carrier falls back to the 2 if there's a lot of if there's multiple carriers, but also the hosts will fall back to using IGP version 2 for all all the groups. So this is it can be a denial of service attack. I guess if someone sends and be too carried intentionally, but there's also been, issues out in a world where out in, yeah, various deployments where some device, for some reason, unintentionally have been sending me to queries. It could be devices that are not, managed by the same organization that, for some reason, is present on the link or it could be configuration mistakes or it could be multiple things. So, who did the last call to our list was the one that brought this up and happy if you want to comment on this, Travis, But there were several people chiming in, you know, about this. So the question we have now is Yeah. We have the section 7.3 on this slide, which is the actual text from the RFC. The question now is as we progress is, do we need to add some text or changes to the document about this? Or do we think that, this is kind of yep. Sort of sufficiently covered. Maybe next slide. Okay. And their trellis. I, yeah. I mean, I'd I'd at the risk of of of somebody being concerned that the is a new feature then that that we're adding in there, right? I've I've I've seen it know, just often cost things, right? So even you know, widely distributed things in Europe. Right? It's like, you know,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "TV, satellite TV, I'll set IP, which in in Europe has big satellites, right? And, and that stuff was failing because there were just, you know, IGMPV warriors, right, and This was all, demanding I GMP V3, for example, and I was similar things. I I would really love to see that the conclusion would be that hosts should ignore IGMP V2 queryandlowerquerriers know, and and you know, must must must have a configuration option or or you know, to, to allow them, right, to afford automatic failback, but that the default behavior should be SSM safe, so to speak. Right? That that they won't fall back in the presence of an older query, right? And, that that is the extreme. Right? So that that gives us SSM safety. And anything shorter of that because the one text yet below was just the router behavior. Not the host behavior, right? The problem is the host behavior. You wanna have the SSM reports. Right? So that's that's the big, big problem we have. With all this backward composite. I mean, obviously, the real thing would be to remove the whole bloody backward ability, right? But so we're not ready for that. Right? So that's why I'm saying the best one would be to have, you know, must default to Ignore Yeah. So, all the couriers. Yeah. So Yeah. Speaking us at chair first, I think. So at least you know, we are revising this to to Internet standards. We can't I think to make too many major changes and we would like I think we need to make sure that If you are compliant to the current RFC, that you would still be compliant with the this that's a good question. Right? So, I mean, if we do something for full internet center, I think one of things is also to eradicate small bugs I would consider this to be a small fatal buck. Yeah. Right? Because, I mean, you know, the the main reason why ultimately after the researchers went away in, I think, 2000"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "IGM TV 3 was there for SSN. And, basically, from that point on, we've been dragging along with this bug in the backward compatibility. So so know, I believe we can we can make recommendations have mace, maybe even shoots potentially something to consider The only thing is I don't think they can have, like, a must in there that say, you know, you must do something different from the previous pharmacy. Maybe maybe we can get ourselves negotiated down to a should, in ISG review. Right? fine That's too. Yeah. K. Yeah. here. Bill. Bill Fenner, Arista Networks. I might have some history I mean, the Yeah. As we all know, like, the nineties were, a hay day the router knows everything. Right, and the hosts are going to learn from the router. Like, look at ipv6RA. So it was the same kind of deal. Like, we don't wanna have to configure hosts for any reason. And the network is the authority, and that's where all of this auto query stuff came from. But, you know, At that time, like, we totally didn't envision the kinds of networks that people actually were going to deploy. Right? We we we all envisioned networks where, like, routers were tightly controlled and nobody Who would put a extra router on a network that wasn't the one that they provided, you know, all of this stuff. So I agree with toilets. Like, it it makes sense to try to do something. However, like, the obvious problem with that is that, like, trying to do something affects every host in the whole Deployment. Right? Host OSs are sometimes the hardest to get upgraded. So You know, it's it's a it's a sticky problem. I I agree that there, you know, if I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "I don't know what to do. So, I mean, it's Yes. So if if we let's say do the the must or the should, Right? And you're not complying yet. Right? You're still comparable compliant with the old art hygienpv3. And then basically add Sometimes, you know, in the next 10 years, that that fix into your source code, right? So and I I I don't really know what what what what the big, big, big problem there is. Yes. It would, impact everybody, but it's, but far, you know, it's it's a small fix, I think, in the soft No. I mean, I Right. forward. I think it's fine to go Change her yet. I don't know what that does to the standards level I'm like, you know, I'm not gonna have an opinion on that. But I if if I think reality is different than we envisioned 25 years ago. And so it makes sense to look at Real deployments, real deployment problems, and say, that auto compatibility was a great idea if. The world looked like that, but it doesn't. So let's figure out something that works. Mike McBride, I fully agree with everything that you two just said, but I disagree. I think that it should be dealt within a new document. Mean, the points 12 is personally, what I think we should do. Do do nothing let this document proceed. And if there's issues, which they're r, which we've known for a long time, just deal with it in new documents. And that's kinda what's pointed. That's what our worker who needs to decide either now or on the list is do we do nothing Just proceed with the document, which is my my opinion is, or do we get more involved in adding Okay. Is more like. K. Anyway, I just wanted to add my opinion."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "Okay. So So this problem is actually It's No. Like a More than 25 years ago. So and, actually, my kernel, basically, implementation of which was reported in a stack, And, also, the Calendary Linux, I I got the information about it in a a meeting list. So Linux also support that, We can just statically, compared that, backward accountability can be just ignored by Haoster. So the Easiest way to address the issue is to have the function, not the function, to to have the mechanisms to configure just ignore the that kind of, fallback message. So, of course, this has a risk of course, safe. The sum courier were for the, actually, Oh, well, this is a little bit different than discussion because I send it in a meeting list. So if the foreign query are different, what So anyway, so this is a different story. So I'll go back to the, original comment. So the if the host has such kind of function, and the louder must require the old host to falling back to the Bluetooth mode. Air force must follow that decision. But if the host already have the confidence that we don't need to fall back the IGP 2 or green 1. Then he they should have that kind of configuration function and just ignore the such kind of fallback function, So OLED, BSD, Linux, I remember both supported that kind of a static configuration. I don't know as a OS, macOS Windows. I'm not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "sure, while iOS, I'm not sure. That, at least such kind of major operating system has such kind of, configuration option So the simplest way to address issues to add the expressity sale. We can have the function to just ignore that kind of callback function. By configuration. And the the problem I got was that okay. So which should be the default value? So the ignoring the that kind of fallback is a default or accepting the that kind of backward accountability is a default I don't have a strong opinion about that kind of default behavior, but at least it's the easiest way is that we had that we can't have such kind of a static configuration This is fine. Yeah. K. Thanks. Yeah. I want to add myself to the queue. But, yeah, go in. Go ahead. the Yeah. Nicole alignment, Deutsche Telekom, just to add to discussion. Had those problems for a couple of years and There are or there are still two major issues 1, Just that's the AGMP version 2 carriers are not going to disappear. Because they are not in our control. And you will see people with bunch of devices inside their home that works basically breakings and I GMP version 3. The second thing is we talked to the router vendors providing the CPEs of the networks. It's an open market in Germany. And they were always referring to the RC, for AG in version 3. And they said, okay. We have implemented it. Isn't SSNC. We know that there's a problem, but we are not going to fix it. Costs, then we are not standard compliant. So I think it's a good idea to have at least some kind of sentence or information that there is an behavior because this kind of problem can be fixed. Okay. X So, I mean, any anything we're changing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "You know, is potentially, you know, as as Bill said, some, some new code that need to be implemented, but I mean, maybe we should just look at some other, you know, RFCs that that went from proposed to full standard to see you know, how far they could drive, you know, fixing bugs and other stuff. That might be, you know, good tedious job for somebody or will try to find some old ADs and ask them. Oh, wait a second. Old ADs. Come on. Right? So Yeah. Yeah. Right. Exactly. yeah. Yeah. And I'll try to find some others, right? But I I I wouldn't be so, so concerned about this as as Mike is, right, especially with I think the the deployment experience that we have. Maybe those are things to to know these deployment appearance is from from Nathan. It tells you that, right, so might might help, right, to to, to swing the pendulum into the direction, right, that It's a, it's a configuration option for the hosts Right? And b, the you know, whatever the right thing is for the default, right, shoot for the default, maybe, you know, after after this discussion, And, There's there's one more thing, which is that basically whatever, you know, the So So the major use of SSN is an embedded devices, right, set top boxes, for example. And in that case, you can already also say, you know, Applications may have you know, the you know, mechanisms to to overturn whatever the the OS defaults out. Right? So that even you're buying set up boxes with OS from, from a, from where that is, right? There are a couple of vendors. And then if the application, right, the deployment in the IPTV environment shows to use SSM, then, you know, the application itself can change the default. Right? I mean, there are a lot of ways to get around making this something mandatory in, in the, you know, protocol itself"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "but we can add text to get recommendation on how you know, whoever wants to rely on SSM, can get that safely. Yeah. Yeah. So speaking, individual. So, yeah. Well, 1st of all, it's a it's a chair, I guess, yeah, I think it's a good idea to check with the ADs or ISG to see, you know, what what, you know, how far can they go kind of and and must be put in their text in their document. But, yes, an individual, I think it's a good idea to, Add some recommendation and say, you know, like, in capitals, like, we recommend ever having a love to whether you fall back or not. Or we can maybe recommend using a different default potentially have 2. Have to think about the wording. Right? But but if you do something like be a recommend that that means that you are still compliant even if you're not doing right, right? But it would hopefully be strong enough to tell people, or you should should really change your implementation to follow this recommendation. Maybe we can do a shoot. You can also not implement, I should, and we're still compliant. So Yep. Yep. I think the the the second recommend is, right, applications that depend on SSM depend on being SSM receivers. Right? Should have an, opportunity and to ensure Right. Yeah. Right. People. so let's say Which kind of pushes the thing up to the API, which when the response So, any help Right. So let's say if you have a host stack, that's has some kind of way of configuring or suppressing the fallback, right? If the application or the set top box vendor, whatever, can make sure that is configured, then we should be okay. Especially in the, you know, in IPD we don't have these wells standardized. 2 39 SSM ranges, right? So it's not even that OS like in, ipv6 knows when something is SSM, right, which is why It's good for the application to be in control of saying this must be SSN. Yeah. I know I'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "you know, suddenly thinking, oh, possible new things like some socket API thing where you can say force SSM or whatever or it could do stuff, but the problem is, of course, getting stuff implemented and shipped and it it might take a decade or something. But I think we're know, we're not responsible for that. So those things might not even need to be capital letter, right, because when we may not be responsible for for the API. But I think at least revert what, Nick was saying that, you know, we do provide the wrong guidance up front. Right, to basically force vendors to do the wrong thing. But the other thing I would say though, if if some device comes up using V2, And it's the device has thought it was supposed to be there. I mean, you know, I have possibly all kinds of problems. Like, if it becomes the Doctor and it doesn't support understand if you see reports or, where it has the wrong our P config, another P config, for instance, things like that can easily break all the costs as well. But but, yeah, I mean, we have we see a clear issue and there are things we can do. Low. I personally support adding some text there. K. Brian is the editor. So, 6 Yeah. Maybe. Yeah. So we we should ask ask Brian, if he has any suggestions as well. But at least Yeah. Speaking as a chair, I guess. You know, I would like us to conclude on this in a few weeks, and, it would be good if if Brian, maybe myself and others can propose some text and we can conclude on something, shortly because I think this is the only only thing holding up the document now. Okay. Thanks. So are we, well, as you mentioned, follow this up on the on the list, but are we sending in this room of the conclusion that, We will do number point number 3, we will add some succinct"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "text to the document to clarify this is The consensus we're reaching I think it's numb do nothing. Proceed. Yeah. I think recommend, right? So the, the should somebody Right? So that that that We're still compliant if we don't. Right? But that we did do give the right direction. Not the wrong one. Yeah. Okay. Should we do we need to do some poll or we'll just continue to discuss on the list. Yeah. Let's let's continue on the list. Yeah. Yeah. That was yeah. Okay. So what you got next here? Join perm extensions. Yeah. So this draft is about John prem extensions for LISP. One of the offers. So we did an extension for lisp, maybe 5 years ago or something? And that's been working fine. But You see that when you're using in the underlay, multicast we would like to use the existing extension in a slightly new way. Next slide. So this has been presented a few times. Think there's a slide between there. Sorry. Yeah. So we have been presenting this several times already. Doesn't have all the details here, but, basically, There is this joint print attributes call in the ETR Outlook attributes. And the idea for unicast was to say This is the end cap you should use. This is the tunnel destination of multicasts, with multicasting on the way, we want to use same attribute for specifying a multi call script address. It's still the destination address or the, of the outer end cap or the,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "Yeah. And the IP packets, it's just that it's now a multicast address. So this went to last call maybe a year ago. Maybe a little longer. Alvaro had some feedback done part of his review. Main thing saying that there was no actual specification how to use the attribute the draft at that time more or less just said, It's the same as before. We are just using a multicast address. So In this verse now, there is, like, added text to to say when to add this attribute, what to do when you see the attribute, and so on. So as an author, I believe they have addressed the the comments that Alvaro had and So it went through last call without any comments from this working group, you you know, asked for publication. Alvaro had these comments that I think are not resolved. So, Yeah. So as an author, I would like this to proceed, don't know how best to proceed, but Mike, Yeah. So should we right now, Just put do a poll, and then we can the same thing on the list? Just to see if it's ready to Yeah. Yeah. whatever you face. Is that what you think? Right. You do, yeah, Okay. Alright. Let me get a poll real quick. Yeah, Torillist, you're not in the queue, right, in the maybe someone else in the queue too. I know you're just permanently in the queue for understated. Oh, yeah. Let me I can remove you. I had to get rid of myself."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:10",
    "text": "Yeah. I can maybe add some background here. So, we did the original draft in PIM and also this in PIM, even though it's list related it's mainly because it's an extension to I it was discussed with the lisp chairs and also, You know, the last call was cross posted to list and stuff. So so, yeah, whatever we do here, we want to keep list and in the loop just in case they have any conflicts. Need to see what I we would what I need to see see list? On the Yeah. I think good idea. that's a Alright. Okay. So I'm gonna end the cube. So we have 4 in favor of a another working group last call on this and no 2 and no opinion. So, We'll go from there. Yep. Okay. Thanks. 10, PMM. Yeah. Alright. Yeah. So this was presented I, I'm Nania in San Francisco, and, I'm presenting it again today. Next slide, please. So, yeah, the idea is fairly simple. We have this This PIM flooding mechanism that floods message is kind of similar to BSR. And, actually, everything I'm saying here could apply to BSR as well if you want do anything there. When they do this flooding, they basically send packets out all all pin interfaces, all or all interfaces where we have him neighbors, And then the assumption is that whoever receives this will do an RPF check and accept it only on one interface and then forward it out only interfaces again."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:03",
    "text": "If you have multiple links between 2 routers, This means that, like, in this case, there's, like, 3 links, That means that you will actually send 3 copies of the same message. Sometimes it could be many more links than 3. But, anyway, three copies. So same message, only one of those will get accepted, but because of the RPF check, So we are sending some unnecessary messages Also, when the message is received, it's again sent out all interfaces. We will receive it back on on all our interfaces as well. And then we will just drop all of them because of the RPF check. So there's a lot of unnecessary forwarding, and the idea here is to try to improve on this. So, What you would like to Yeah. What you try going to achieve is basically that router a can see that Oh, on all these links, my my only neighbors would be So I only need to send this on on the one link once And, Roger B, needs to somewhat know that it should accept this, even though it may not be, it's our PF interface. Because A doesn't know which one of these be choosys as rpf interface. And also if b knows that the message came from a, should know that there's no reason to send it back to a. Next slide. So in order to achieve this, we proposed using RC 6395 that has broader identifier that can be put in Pim Hello's doing this router a can actually see that on all these links, My only neighbor is the same router. It has the same router ID. Like, b has a unique ID. Right? It announces on all payments your faces. So that way, we we know that, okay, we have the same neighbors we only send it once."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "And, also, when we receive a message, we can say, oh, this came from router a. I don't need to send it back again on moment of other interfaces where a is the only neighbor. So, yeah, it's the idea is fairly simple. I. Thank you. Just one more thing, which I think might be on the next slide. Let's see. Next slide, please. That Yeah. Just just just one catch is We need to know whether the other neighbor actually supports this extension because if we decide to only send it on one link, And that happens to not be the RPF interface. The other neighbor would just ignore it. You need to know that this other neighbor supports this enhancement to have kind of like a loose RPF check to say I accept it from a if it came on Any of these interfaces? Is regardless whether it's my actual RTF interface. The logic would more or less be You do your normal RPF You see your RPS neighbors a? If you receive a message on another link, that also is from a, then you still accept it. So so, basically, it would use the existing router ID but you would also have this 1 new hello option to just know that our neighbors supports this. Extension, And, yeah, all all of what I said could be done for BSR if there's any interest. Okay. I think that's it, next slide. Yep. Any any input on this? Alright. Yeah. So,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "Yeah. As an offer, you know, I would like to ask if this can be adopted by the work. Okay. We will do a poll. Gonna say there were lots of no opinions, but I see that's the participants. Yeah. Alright. So we have a 6 in favor two, no opinion. We will follow-up on that list. Thanks. Then I got one last, draft percent. So this is another PFM draft. So it's proposing some new sub TLB mechanism. Next slide, please. This also was presented in San Francisco, by the way. So If you look at the PFM RFC, it has a single Tlv definition for announcing a source group and hold time. To get her That's all you need to announce as a source that a source is active. So that is fine."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "But then the question is what if you want to announce some additional information about the source? Like in this draft, you're talking about bandwidth that could be one flow rate. That could be one example, but it could be any kind of information you want to metadata, whatever, about some source. If you want to announce that, it's it there's no easy way right now. Let's say if you have one Teal, we announcing this, the active eskomaje And another TLV with the bandwidth info, how do you relate it to only way would be to put source and group address again in the Bandwidth TLV. So So in order to have an easy extensible way of adding data about, an active flow, like an eskomaje I think the best way is to actually use subtleties And, unfortunately, we didn't think of this initially in the first, yeah, in the RFC. So what I'm proposing is basically that You have a Tlb announcing source group and hold time, that's fine. But inside that Tlv, you can have subtiolis with you kind of information you might define in the future. So you would have an easy way of associating that extra information with, with the active calendar flow. That's really what all this document is doing. So So if if implementation support this new way, they would basically use that other the a new TLV for announcing source and group that allows subtleties Yeah. Okay. Next slide. So this is what it looks like currently in the RFC So you have the group and then you have active source sources for that group and also a hold time. And then the next slide So we're proposing this format here and And this actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "The first one has a group and a list of sources could do that here too, but since there's it's likely different metadata about different sources, even though it's the same group, I think it might be easier to just do source and group on its own But here you see we can add any number of sub theories for this source and group. Next line. And this is just about this this 11 subglv this document has for flow rates, and it just has shows how we propose to encode this. This is the same as what's done in the pop count RFC. If you remember that like, in joint print messages, we have a way of sending a a pop count. So Well, one the main thing I feel is whether it's worth doing the sub TLV concept. I could just have that in this draft. I put in the flow right there because I wanted to have kind of, like, at least one use case auto otherwise, it's not really that useful. But, yeah, depending on what you think, whether you support the use case or not, we could you know, also do subtleties without this proposed flow rate. Subtlb. Any comments Okay. Jeff Jeffrey from Juniper. So Both days. And the previous one are simple straightforward and enhancements to the same mechanising. Would it make sense to combine this to into a single draft? We we we could certainly do that. If it turns out that, there, yeah, there is support for doing both, we we we can do that. Yeah. Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:14",
    "text": "And that is only the, in my opinion, I think that we should by, common. Messard Ojus. For how to use the sub TLV. And the the other can be combined, or separately for different use cases. So maybe we can consult the earth. This Because, in this job, we we found out that we could we define how to use the new sub TLV. And we defined a new rate. Ricks up the hood. Fee in it. I think maybe we can separate them. And so we can use 1 base structure for the how to use the new sub TLV and there's other way for different use cases. Yeah. Right. That's my opinion. Yep. Okay. So, Yeah. I would say, yeah, I want to add one thing is that, know, I'm doing the flow rate here, not just because I want an example. I think it's something that I want to do that is useful to us. But, yeah, basically, we can do Right now, I'm, you know, there's, like, 3 different things kinda the sub t l the general sub t l e mechanism It's this flow rate subtillb and then it's the the forwarding extension I presented earlier And it could possibly have all in one document if that's what people want. I know Jeffrey suggested combining the 2 drafts but But, yeah, you're saying that we should maybe take this sub tier v out of this document. I'm I'm fine either way. There, So, yeah, we have a couple of different ways we can structure this."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "I mean, I can do what both of you said and say, combine the two documents, but take the sub yeah, the flow rate out, though, the combined documents. If that sounds good, yeah, So I wanted to ask about adoption, but I guess it's a question how we should structure these documents. Right. Maybe maybe we could ask adoption of just The sub actually, that's kinda tricky because there's Not a draft, just for the sub TLV part of it. So I'm just gonna ask the question. You asked it, so we're gonna do it. And then you could we can figure it out from there. Yeah. If I'm, yeah, if I may suggest one thing, you know, I know. I'm just in the offer here, but you know, if if If you know that if you can ask, could check if there's interest in this work being done and, Tim, At least we could know that much. And then, if if you know that, then maybe, you know, before the next start, yeah, we could do some adoption call maybe ask on the list about people think about the I don't know. structure. Yeah. Well, based upon the results of the last poll. There's a there is interest I did just started. Pull on this draft. particular So there does appear to be interest enough to at least Take it to the list. Right. Maybe, what you can do before take it to the list is Agree. With Jeffrey and Sandy and whoever else on how you wanna structure this. Yeah. And then we can go from there. Yeah. At least I I feel like the main thing is spread it to keep them separate as they are now or or or do what Jeffrey said."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:03",
    "text": "Right. Because that means whether you want to adopt 1 or 2 documents. Right? That's right. Whether we take this out of there or not, that can be done Nava or later. We would still have 22 documents. Right. Right. Yeah. Well, there we go. We'll put this one. So Yep. Okay. Thanks. Yeah. know not much input I but Yep. Okay. Thanks. Okay. Thank you. Tourless. Alright. So this is a a quick update of the proposal that we, initially showed in IETF 118, which and evolution of, the work we've done to scale stateless multicast with, a mix of SIP based approach, and bit string based approaches next slide. So, yeah, why why are we here? So the beer and large networks, right? So the long global bit strings in packets, need to subdivide those for large networks into a group of, notes BFER that share a bit string with the common SINSD. And so we we need to have, many of these, bit strings and subdivide them up. And so that becomes an administrative and operational issue. So if we have a large data center with 100,000 notes or so. And then a lot of customer VLANs with 10 to 100 node right. And then these, notes may also move around, right? So when you have, VPN mobility, for example, So those are, a typical example, use cases."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:02",
    "text": "With tree engineering, with a BRTE, the problem becomes even more pronounced because we need many of the bits in the flat bit strings. For, expressing, the path. And so the subdivision of the total, bit string size into separate ISDs, becomes the becomes an even bigger pain point. So that's why we'd set out, couple of years back to try to figure out, can we represent a bit string as a hierarchical structure that, you know, just for every node, has, you know, a local bit string just for the adjacent layer 2 neighbors. That's what we call the RBS recurves of bit string structure. And then, we started to think that, you know, maybe the problem in large networks is also that we need, like, notes where we don't need replication. So sits may also be interesting. Gara Yara. So that led, next slide. To this, mixed behavior. Right? So the the the tree structure on the right. So every node has, encoded one element. And, when you are forwarding the packet, you ultimately will only have the substructure left where you router are on the top. And as soon as you forward to the next routers, you're going to extract the one block for that neighbor router and only forward that block. So ultimately, You have a little bit of work to do when forwarding a packet. By extracting the sublock for the next hop, and then Each of these blocks, will basically have your right? So you don't need to look as the forwarding element at the overall, let's say, very long bit string, but you only need to look at what is interesting locally for you. And that hopefully should also make the forwarding easier. And, yeah, so you get kind of the the tree engineering you get for free just because you wanna represent the tree, is always pre engineered, but that doesn't mean that you simply don't divide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "the tree from your IGP, right? So nobody says you need to do some. CSPF or complex traffic engineering. Next slide. So now what we came up with is that how do you represent on every node the neighbors, right? So one is a local bid string as call it, where, you know, every possible layer neighbor that you have is one bit in your bid string. And if if you're just a normal, let's say, you know, data center switch, if got 32 ports. Well, you your bit string is just 32 bit long. If if we basically wanna go through a call router that has, you know, just couple of neighbors. But the next hops are remote, right? Like in segment routing, we want to go or 4 hops away, well, that is basically something where you potentially wanna address every node in the network. Because there may be, maybe several hops away. That's what we would do a list global sits, then we also have the ability to say, well, wouldn't we want to have a local list compared to the bit string. And that's a simple, you know, compression of Right? So imagine you just have in this example here, 60 neighbors. That's four bits to represent, the, the identifier of a neighbor, right, four bit is good enough for 16. So then you can compare, oh, yeah, if, if I want to address you know, more than 4. Neighbors, then it's better to use the bid string. Otherwise, I use, for example, the simplest, right? So it's all about, representing the whole tree as compact as possible with these three different, type of, local indicators for your next top local bit string, local sets, or global sits. And, yeah, so in in general, I think when we were looking at general purpose cases, we felt that the closer we get to the edge right? The, the more fan out you typically have. So definitely the bit string are ideal on the last ops. When you get towards subscriber, the fan out may be 100 or even more, broadband, for example. But if you go across a long big core, maybe with rings,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "then, you know, just doing some, you know, a global sit to hop over many routers just to get towards the edge maybe better. So, you know, you build a tree. And, for each of the notes in the tree, you can then choose what you want. So that's kind of the the logical idea. But then, of course, can see logical ideas are great but, you know, show me running hard work. Next slide. So what we had in TF118 was a p4 reference implementation on some unknown reference hardware for which everything is under NDA. So, And, that was called a seat. And, the, the student from the university was, was, presenting that there also in beer, where the expertise for for these hard toy forwarding aspects is and so what we could do at that point in time was either 1 or the other, right? So, a tree of the global sits only or a 3 of, the local bit strings only. And then basically the proposal at that point in time if we wanted to go with this flexibility, into centralization was to indeed just a, an indicator in the package to choose 1 or the other. And then when we continued since 118 to figure out how to improve, On this, we, we got on forwarding platform also to the point. If if we wanted to have both of these code segments together, that was actually already running out of code space on that note. So basically, student went back and we looked at it. So what they came up with, was then, and that was presented on Tuesday in beer where unfortunately, another stupid conflict. So I couldn't be there, but so, that was basically combination we wanted. So we can have in a single packet both the, sits list, and we can have string accepted on this forwarding platform, we couldn't recurse with bit string, right? You couldn't have a bit string and then forward further notes that all have a bit strange. So then I was,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "going back and thinking, okay, how do we generalize that? I don't want to have something in standard buddy that is based on the limitations of some, you know, very, very low end hardware. But of course, I would really love to have such, you know, hardware be supportable by a standard because that may be the only thing that researchers can do. And I think in the past, like in the nineties, we've seen, you know, how research deployments have actually driven forward and and and and and created the big change to get multicast, working. Right? So I'm, I'm very much hoping that the same can be happening for for beer as well to get more more interest from that side. So next slide. So the way I figure this this this can ultimately be done is that we do define this block for every node flexible enough that good, notes, notes, can get all the optimizations, but bad notes, can only support a subset. And what that simply means is that in the control plane, you would have to indicate, right, this note is is is bad. So when you build a tree through that note, you can only choose the one up for that block of the encoding that that node supports. Right. For example, that this node cannot have a bit string and then the next tops can have bit strings as well. So this is Of course, for a slot like this, you know, for short probably way too much details but just very high level, right? So what you're looking at, Upfront, that is what you, as the note sees, that gets the packet the are your parents is pretty much telling you what the encoding is. And then you get a list, of 0 or more neighbors downstream of you, right? So your your direct leave neighbors and you know, If any of them has an RU itself, that's what you would forward to that note. So, and the RU parents is exactly what this, long bit is. So there are a couple of flex, which basically has some optimization brought"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "cast, deliver means the bid, this packet is also for you to receive. And not only to deliver further down into the tree. Then the sit long sit basically says, is your sit in this header, a long or a short one, right? So we said global or local. Is the bit string present and then is the list of our used presence. Right? And then basically if you're really, you know, bad forwarding element, only set of these functions to reported. And Ebola, we get to a solution, which I think is very flexible. You can build trees even with the worst of the hardware forewarnings that we that we know and hopefully, you know, the better, you know, vendor type of high speed ASICs. Would be able to to both of it. And, but maybe even, you know, let's say we go into data centers, which is all very dense very high fan out. Maybe they would say, well, we're never implementing the, the sit options because all the trees are very short. So it turns back to be, in these environments, just the recursive bit stream that we had in our yes Next slide. Right. So where do we go from here? So, yeah, we're we're writing the research paper up. And I would love for for for for some reference code usable by others. This is, of course, not full stuff we've done, but the seed plus, And I'm, of course, somewhat worried to to to just also look into these, you know, business opportunities. So the whole AI into data centers But that's kind of on a, on a further track. I'll need to talk with ice So he was raising the concern. The original encoding was very compact. By not including length fields, right, but that you get the lengths from the state itself And I think it would lovely to have both options. Right? If I'm at a data center, that is a very fixed topology. You know exactly what the bit string lengths are, so no need to include the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "fields. But, yeah, if you go to an arbitrary network like a provider course, so I'm hoping that, you know, the opportunity to say, well, even the length fields can be optimized away. If the control plane can tell you and you feel safe, a network like a data center, then the encoding becomes more compact. But that's a discussion I I would like to have with him. And then, yeah, what's, the target hardware Right? So I think that's that's again the the big discussion for us when I was talking with Jeff Forks and the other Jeff, the, the NVIDIA, Jeff. So basically the big difference in terms of how low can we go with the things, right? The, the big buffer, more expensive, things like, you know, the the, the good third party vendor of chips from everybody, Jericho, would probably be able to do everything, but then we go to the lower end, Tomahawk, right? So hopefully also the structure makes it easier, to get into lower end ASICs. But, Yeah. Our p 4 code, should hopefully be a good starting point reference. And, yeah, I mean, I would love to present to beer next time, right, this this this time was just purely because I had the conflict and so luckily, we had at least the students there and then, talk how we go from there, right? This is this is certainly very experimental. Right? So I wouldn't dare to, to ask for anything more than experimental. We go. But, if the IETF is interested in, in the scaling of beer and especially making the bloody BRTE stuff a lot easier, that would be great. So Yeah. That was back up. So Yeah. We ended it last time. Yep. Any questions? Thank you. Thank you. Atoshe."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:07",
    "text": "Hi. This is, version 7 update. But multiple ops remain the first step of or as you can be a emergency proxy. For the next So, actually, maybe we can only name the draft, to the March path support for the because this is maybe point attractive for everyone. So please consider this one recognized extension of a large part support for the urgent payment, the proxy, Next, please. So this is a background. So it's a re actually, it's a rear very well known issue that the RFC 46 0 pi does not support such much foaming situation, and it's really common that the the proxy has the different upstream interface to the same ISP or different PPO or even a different, interfaces. So this is, important to enable the, IGP emergency device to use, such kind of marked your interface, support and receive much gas package through the these interfaces. Express. So this page shows, our object, the objectives and the expected benefits So, IGP Medical Device enables a reception a station channel through the different upstream interface. This has a various, benefits. For example, the flexible ablation and, for example, the subscribe are based Appalachian, like, client out of the space. So so there's some business may want to distinguish the different clients for the getting there some providing the quality of the content or policy management And, also, the channel based upstream selection, 111 more interface is easier part channel session and also love us to date the reception,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:03",
    "text": "So this is something, it could cause smart pass. And, also, it's required to, the backup interface. So upstream interface takeover, it switches interactive inactive upstream path to another active backup path. So, we had actually the requirement to draft the sick. The second grit, but it was expired and, we already got some, working group last call, but since the we don't have we didn't have a strong interest about this kind of, requirement draft. So AD, asked us to something like merge or integrate the requirements information into the this solution draft. So now I have been thinking about, integrating the requirements part into of a solution draft. Exce. So we had a we had 2, proposal. 1 is the the this draft. This intended status is informational because, this introduced some static configuration how, what what is the motivation and how we can, support slide by based pursuing interface selection, channel based upstream instruction, and that's stream interference can be a part sg or staggy or even the s stuff. Basis. And then, also, we can support the interface priority based app interface selection. And, if there is no, configuration or mismatch, we can use a for the upstream interface. And, we will also add some statement about the SDNLI controllers based upstream interface configuration. Actually, my course, thinks that, it's better to provide, more specific information about, SDN like uploads."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:04",
    "text": "In a separate document. So we have now syncing about it. And if you have some opinion about, such kind of SDNI controller based approach, then please tell us we may include a this counter kind of a controller based approach inside this draft, or we can split to the different, stipulate document. And, the different one, the another one is actually the dynamic configuration. This intelligence data is a proposed standard because it acquires, signaling based configuration, which requires, Ijmpml extension So we definitely need to need to get the the consensus about, such kind of protocol extension. So that's why the main aim is to divide the the Our first one and the second one, why is that we don't have we have a different entity status. Exprize. So the current and the next step my course, sir, Luis already, provided the academic people with his, members and it's already, presented in, ICIN 2021. So, actually, the hour initial draft was a years ago, literally, years ago. So maybe, we, of course, need to do the several improvement to define the default active interval to detect an inactive officer interface and, consider the interaction with, signaling methods that is provided in a a different draft. And maybe young model specification of the young model is also maybe, acquired. But anyway, maybe it's, time to ask you to they're a walking wrapped adaption That's all. Thank you. Go ahead. Jeffrey from Juniper."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "So There is a feature for pin and MODP. The MOD or the MOFR then there is for PGPM APN, there is, another RFC for upstream redundancy. Where the egress p may may receive multiple copies of the same traffic from different, ingress PEs and then it will choose which one which flow stream of the packet will receive. So it seems to me that here, we have received the same problem. To, first, to which inter upstream interface you send the IGP join. Or both, And when you receive traffic from which interface, would ex accept the traffic And to me, all this seems to be Could be local behavior. The the proxy router itself just decide I'm going to send it this way or that way or post. And then when the traffic comes, I'm going to accept here or here whatever. So It seems to me that it's just really a local behavior. Maybe I missed that something. So What? What's a good question? He doesn't think it needs to be standardized. Is that right? Right. Yeah. He he's saying that it's he thinks it should be a local behavior. Mhmm. And subsequently, we wouldn't need to standardize it. Mhmm. So, again, this the intended status is informational, and the problem, the biggest problem. It's 460 What? The the current, RJ, M, reproxi, doesn't support multi purpose free interface. Clearly, So this is a problem. So we'd like to break that kind of a limitation So So and, Well, We don't provide this as a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:02",
    "text": "propose a standard. So that's why I said that this I insisted that is there should be a informational. And, of course, if we need the some protocol extension as, dynamic signaling approach. We provided, provided It needs the, maybe, standardization, but this Draft doesn't aim to make any standardization. Total 2nd. Yeah. I mean, worst case, this is also if this is an operational, you know, method, could as well go to nbowd people feel it's not right for popped in, but I have no opinion right now. Stick. So, maybe it can be a local decision and a local implementation thing, you know, how to exactly do this. I think it's good to document. An informational document and say, if you try to implement something like this. This is how you may do it or things that you need to worry about or so that, you know, implementation is hopefully get it right when they implement it. Right. Thank you By the way, I guess the original use case for this was, multicast mobility, maybe seniors. We need to go back to the very, very historical issue sunnidelity. In my opinion, things that, just like, the two people just said, lots, it's we can do it. We can do it through the configuration, right, or something other way, It's a local collaboration or local method. And the the other things I think is that if you want to standardize it, the most important thing is that it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:02",
    "text": "very complex because how do we know, we the customer want quote. And the they are master. So many things can be carried. Through the RTMP drawing or something else you you must get from the customer, right, and that you made your decision. So as I think if you want to standardize it, it's more complex than you want. So, that's what I think. Yeah. So the so that's why I never promote. This should be a standardized. And the I agree that, that kind of which interface or what kind of interface should be selected is really common to the pim mother. As well. So this doesn't provide any solution that which interface or what kind of interface must be selected for that for what kind of a streaming. So that kind of discussion, I agree that is really and it's, not this doesn't aim to provide such kind of information. Yes. I think, f as just want to pro some provide some guidance or some thinking about the selection, I think it's good because you can list some of Sure. Sure. Yeah. At least some of you're thinking it. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's that can be that makes some sense. Yeah. Hold a second again. Yeah. I mean, you may also ask Nick or I think, drum and telecom probably in the same way as the I think, this was a telephonic course. I'm trying to remember. They, I think in the past, they all have, maybe still have different upstream VLANs. One of which magically has multicast, the others don't. So I think it's a common deployment case in in these service providers, and they all had their magic, you know, how to build a router recommendation with the unit must use this magic feedlin number or something."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:00",
    "text": "In, you know, whatever their requirements specification them. And I don't think that's very, amenable. It was for you wanna build multi service provider, home gateway. So the the I can easily see the importance of of that use case, right? As I said, I have no clue whether more m o d would be better, but I I don't even know why this shouldn't be standards if everything else, that they're configuring into these routers when you attach them to service provider, ultimately, yet maybe some TR6 denying. It may be young and I don't care, but, you know, if we just standardize it one way, they'll figure out if they use a different protocol than our young, like your denying to kind of, bring the same feature into that, right? So maybe you're even aiming to low with, the, the informational Thank you for your comment. Actually, the Nick was or is the requirement throughout the course, sir. So so here, of course, the circum or their phone because they literally had a similar issues, and they had a summer let's say, something like a stress and so, we have been talking about, the requirement and the Didn't know again. That kind of requirement to have to show be is included in, this one. So I'm not sure how we can divide or we can sure the integrated requirement dropped into this solution of the owner. So we had a history history, history, So, I'm not sure. So there are several, comments, and maybe Louis, my coarser, he preferred to have, still want to alive, make the live the requirement as well. But The previous AD, how does some comment about, less ink thrusts, doesn't push the Moving forward, So Well, I'm not sure how we can integrated requirement trust to enter this 1, or we should push through the requirement trust first, and then discuss about this kind of a static solution and then go to the next step, which is a dynamic."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:03",
    "text": "Interface configuration, which requires a as you pay the extension. So we actually had 3 drafts And, this is a second one. Static configuration. Not the third one, which is a dynamic corporation. We had a one requirements also. How how should do. I'm not sure Well, Do you want us to do per your request, an adoption on just this draft right now? Yes. At this one. Because the requirement draft was already approved in, working the draft, but, again, It has had a less interest. So we terminating the updating the requirement draft now. But anyway, so today, I'd like to ask to support to this draft as a working group draft. And maybe next time, we will present a dynamic configuration approach. As well. Sunny down late here. I think that you should changes the title of this draft up How? At the first. It's a much It's a small time requirements. Much bus? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe. Thank you. Did anything else on this one? Enough. Okay. Can Okay. Thank you. So right now, we have 4 that are in favor of adoption. One no opinion. So we'll follow-up on the list and you very much. Okay. Alright, Jeffrey. Bringing us home."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:07",
    "text": "Okay. So this is, information draft, for multicast, options, in a source segment routing network. It's specific for non source logic options. Co authors, including me, ICE, woman and isom. Next slide, please. So, again, it's informational where he present our thoughts so that we can discuss and consider those points The source routed options are not considered in this document, not because you're not good. It's just it's just just not consider, including that mean the scope of these documents. Beer, I do not consider it as source rocket because, it does not encode the tree or a subtree. The camp. Next slide. So when we talk about s rmodicus options, we want to look at the principles of segment routing first. To me, the number one principle of segment routing is that you do not have per tree or per tonal states, in the network anymore, you use loose or strict pass including the in the package themselves. The second principle or characteristic is that, is the optional use of controllers. The ingress routers may be instructed by the god box controllers, omnipotentominations, those controllers or how the package should be steered. So those are the principles as I see. Next slide. So if you look at the transport number 1, then The 2 there are 2 options here. One is ingress for application. Other one is pure The ingress replication is simple, mature,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:02",
    "text": "but it's not efficient when it comes to replication. Still, it's applicable for certain scenarios One example is that low rates or low files, sporadic podcast flows, And when you do Uni ingress replication, you can use both segment routing or non sec segment routing paths. Example, IP pass, MPOS pass, or SRS 6 pass, whatever. You just have the root of the marker's tree sends, sins, unicorns copies to the leaves, Beer, allows you to do efficient replication without purchase dates. So it's perfect solution for SRMOTCAS. It sticks to number one principle of segment routing. And and It it It works for all situations. Scenarios were convergence on the scale. It's critical. Then it that's in those scenarios will benefit the most. It's interesting that both IR, and beer they are developing independent of SR. Next decrease. So, beer has got good pro PropCo progress in IETF. We've got the base architecture, encapsulation, a secondary RFSs, quickly, and we also have been working on extensions. And brownfield deployment solutions. However, the deployment has been very limited. Due to a chicken and egg problem. Because it is a new encapsulation and new forwarding, So it requires new a a sick or programmable ASIC. So we have operators, who were very interested in beer but they had to back off. Due to a platform limitations. And once the the operators back off, the mentors also back off due to unclear demand."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:04",
    "text": "So that's kind of chicken act problem that has been limited at the deployments. However, We believe that primetime is coming. We have ASIC capability from several major vendors acrossedge access core and platforms. And so the pioneering vendors and operators will help break the dilemma. We're also doing interrupt testing among the major vendors. Correct. Greg Robhews. just wanted to point out that we I do a major vendor with deployments active in customer networks. I think as long as 2 years now, but I'd have to ask someone directly to get them to respond. You. K. Thanks. Next slide, please. So when you look at the up, number 2 principle of segment routing. Using controllers. So we have 2 options. One is that controller calculated trees the tree setup can still be using traditional signal, but we can use controller to calculate that tree. And the next one is the trees that are both calculated and Signode. From the controllers. SRP to MP is, the the first one there, it has it's part of this working group. Then the next option is using BGP signaling from the controllers for MLTP tunnel, or IP multicast. So in case of BGP signal MLDP, It the only relevance to LMLDP is the user MLTP fact as a tree identifier. This is a good option you are transitioning from, for example, mlDP based m MVPN. And to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:00",
    "text": "where you don't want to use MLDP for signaling anymore. Next slide, please. So here are some considerations for SRP to MP. It's whom I mentioned earlier when we are using MPOS data plan, and the Replication notes, The SRP to MP is very similar to MLD. Or RSVPP, T20P, because in the in your data plan, you would basically have label based replication. Have labor in they go out. That in the forwarding parts, there's no difference. The difference is in a control plane, You have different tree identifiers, or or you have different signaling protocols. Is one point we do want to emphasize that, cat SRP 2MP, you can avoid 3 state on the non replication notes. So from, your option notes to to a Doctor. She knows can have many hops, you can use the tunnels you do not need to establish the screen state on those tree notes. So this is good for sparse replication situations. I also want to point out that PIM and MODP actually supports that as well. It does require You have team adjacency over tunnels, have MLD disagreeing over targeted sessions. But if you use s rp2np, that is avoid the use of the controller Next slide, please. Now some operators are moving away from MPOS. They just want to do SRB 6 based forwarding, Then in that case, SRV 6p2np, the tree null states is also like, And the ice case, The In MTS case, we have incoming outgoing tree identifying label. With s rv6 data plan, Those labels are basically as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:02",
    "text": "encoded as, functional bits in the a destination, my ipv6 multi address in the s rv6, encoding format. In particular, the locator, you know, SRV 6 destination address gets a package. From Vantans to the downstream tree notes. Whether that tree node is therapeutic connected, or No. Had the many hops away, that are many hubs away. So that locator It's sort of like the base label. In the MTS case. In particular, segment routing header, can be useless, explicitly steer the package. To remove downstream notes, you can tell what exactly pass you use. So one thing here is that each tree node does need to update the destination address. So your new program or programmable ASIC is needed to support SRS 6p20. However, many hardware, that supports SRB 6 unicast already may be able to support SRP6p2mp. But the older a 6 that is entirety s rv6 capable that is out of luck. And in that case, pure, IP mod V Six multicast can be used here, here, because they both use the, ipv6haler, So it could be a very good alternative when you have this, knows that that's not support s rv6p2np. Next week, please. Yeah. Then we also have traditional situations, ingress replication, team, or p2np, can still reuse. If this, address the use cases. Without pinpoints."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:00",
    "text": "We also met we mentioned earlier that paying owed IPV 6 multicast could may be a better choice in some situations. So this is depending on the, operator's preference. Because, Some operators When they Go to s r At least for unicast, they removed LDP or RCVP, your your unique customer's purpose, but some may want to remove entirely. They don't want to use it at at all for a body cause, but some are okay. There's may say that I'm fine with running MLDP or even RSVP to MP. Even though I don't use, LDP or RCP for unicorns anymore, I'm fine. To so a key the, point to consider here is weather you want to use the controllers or not? If you want to use controllers, then yes, s rp2np, or BGP Signode modP or IP multicast from the controllers. Next slide, please. So this is a summary for the considerations of these options. I list them in the order that's we believe it's a good order to consider. So if you care about efficient replication, Without purchase dates, And most of your replication knows can support beer, then, obviously, beer is the number one choice. If you cannot do beer, then The traditional multicast solutions may still be used if they if they work well, especially you don't need to use controllers Or if you a fine with rounding those protocols after you get rid of, get rid of LDP or SVP for unicode purposes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:01",
    "text": "And finally, if you do need to use controllers or you do want to get rid of the those other protocols. SRP 20p. It's your it's a good choice. Just keep in mind that they still have the purchase date on there. Tree nose, tree nose, Similarly, BGP Signode MLDP or IP Modcast is also a good choice. So This is basically a summary of the constitutions for the oldest all the options The extract is So discussions, these are just some thoughts we have. Some may be controversial. Maybe different people have different opinions, but we want to to put this out for information for discussion. Thanks. Personally, Zenithality for now, I think that this structure is very valuable for reading. And because it provide many recently, technology asset. Other sites here. So I think it's very valuable. And I just saw a comment for the title. Because they said a no source what it has. I think, it's not a general calling here. Right? So, I think maybe we can. Check some data, yeah, about the title. Yeah. Maybe at a convenience. More explicited. Also play RCM. Okay. We the we this is actually a replacement documents for, for a prior for previous graphs that where we simply set s r multicast. The reason we called out non source route is because We did, exclude the source routing options here. I we know that we there have been discussions on source route adoptions. They they there are good considerations there. It's just that we, a, We are not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:06:01",
    "text": "including that in in our consideration here. Not because they are they are not good as I point up at the very slight It's just that it's good to focus on on the non source route with options, first. Yep. Yes. But maybe I'm wrong, because I think that that's if we if we want to use source routing at it and maybe use it for trafficult Engineering. So So I think about if we can use general calling, instead of the because that, it really confuses me non self relative Oteo, I really dropped, and I understand what I what I had stated. But it's just from the title I I can't look at anything from it yet. Okay. Thanks. Thank you. But, again, We are not seeing that, source route options are not good. Just one color for you. you. Okay. Thank Yeah. Last Yeah. He's actually gone, but we will cut the line after that. yeah. Of the question. So, expected Oh, I thought. Well, my question is is always 6. So Sorry for my email address, but to you? Propose that s r 26. Doesn't support the IP March gusts Perfect. 3 or Did you talk about, the situation about the market support in SR 26 community. So, sorry. I I'm not I I'm a little bit confusing that. So what So The validation with a cell basics and match multicast. So post SR based both SRV 6 multicast and plain old IPV6 multiclass. They're all based on the IP address, ipv6 address. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:08:04",
    "text": "you need to look up, when we're trying to find how to replicate your traffic, there is no difference between SRS 6 and ipv6. You can just trade it the incoming, the p 6 address, entirely just as a a a 6 address, or you can She's really looking to functional bits, but it does not matter. Now it's down the outgoing side. With playing old ipv6 multicast your desk your destination group address does not change. But with SRV 6 multicast, you don't need to change your our our destination address, on each tree note. That is not a problem if you're router is already support s rv6. But for some other platforms that may be a problem. So that's why I say that in some situations, you can use IPB print old IPB Six motorcast, in step Okay. Thank Any requests? Press right now, we are happy to just let it stay as is, and then we trigger discussions and and then eventually if we have enough consensus on this that people don't have problem with this. Of course, we like to to adopt this as a informational trapped. But for now, we're happy to just trigger this discussion. Great. Yeah. That's document. a good Thank you. And thank you, everyone, your weekend. Yep. Thanks. Thanks for being here. We were up against a popular, BAF So thank you for being here. Nothing. That's See in Vancouver. No."
  }
]
