[
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:45",
    "text": "okay we\u0027re gonna go ahead and get started this is the NTP and tick-tock working group meetings combined first of all I want to double check remote audio you should be able to hear us so speak up if you can\u0027t and we have Harlan and Kristoff remotely Richard Yakka Oh excellent hey Richard I mean rich you set the topic to the jabber room to go to the tick-tock room I actually told them to go to the ntp room and there right now it\u0027s just you and me and tick-tock and everybody else incidentally all right so this is the new note well for those of you so everybody is aware this is the ITF meaning the note well applies there is actually an updated RFC that\u0027s referenced here RFC 81 81 79 so the IP our rules have been updated there was a recent blog post I think it\u0027s like around the 13th or 14th of July on the IETF blog that talks about the updated RFC there are some tweaks to the rules but basically there they are the same what\u0027d you say what\u0027d you send on the mailing lists and documents are considered contributions if you have any questions the only reason why I\u0027m spending a little bit more time on this unusual is the underlying RFC has actually changed so for those of you who everybody should care about that it\u0027s getting ready to say for those of you who care but everybody cares about this and so everybody should be aware that it has changed yes we have looks we all care about this and it has changed all right any other so moving on we\u0027re all aware of the note well so the agenda for today administrivia and agenda bashing we have a minute taker you have a jabber scribe thanks to both of you very much I do believe that this is quite possibly a record for the NTP working group well we have not stood at the front and begged for both of those positions as the meeting is starting so which is progress so the agenda for today will do NTP "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:05:49",
    "text": "first and then we will do the tick-tock stuff we\u0027ll have we\u0027ll go over the working group status talk about network time security all of those lists of documents so I didn\u0027t prepare a slide for the NTP working group status the only thing I really wanted basically what I if if its current work item or something we\u0027ve been discussing for a while it is not represented somehow on the agenda somewhere else then I put it here and so the only thing that\u0027s really here is the draft IETF ntp mode six commands I know that Brian Haberman who is the author of that document is over in the deprived meeting so he\u0027s not here he incorporated all the comments that were received from the last set of comments and it\u0027s his it\u0027s his beliefs that this document is ready to go to working group last call I\u0027m not does anybody have any reason why they don\u0027t believe that should be the case and as a reminder to two folks that are new to this this is actually fixing an omission from the NTP the current versions of the NTP specs where this got actually left out so now it\u0027s been added back in so it\u0027s been one of those little bits of administrivia that we haven\u0027t taken care of so no questions comments on mode six messages okay so the next item on the agenda is the it\u0027s the workhorse of this working group at the moment the network time security Daniel so I haven\u0027t bothered with slides because the update on this is fairly straightforward I believe the documents is ready to go to last call at any time outstanding issues as far as I\u0027m aware are a few people have contacted me with with with proofreads and identified some typos they need to go through those and also make sure they listen encrypted your section and I think there was an outstanding question from the interim about what we want the final title of this document to be I don\u0027t think these questions are both fairly creepy old they should not be blockers for last call I think we\u0027re ready any time okay is there any questions for Daniel about this document how many people in here have had a chance to read the updated draft I think that\u0027s four of us I think there\u0027s a few more of these you need to read it oh there we go fine well you don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:54",
    "text": "that\u0027s ridiculous early time for Sharon so she\u0027s definitely alright so um Oh Harlan Xin the cubes we haven\u0027t push the red button sorry clearly I needed my second cup of tea go ahead Harlan hi there Dave Mills I just sent this to the chat area has a report and comments about the follow-on to AutoKey that includes Network time security and with respect to network time security is particularly concerned about the lack of symmetric mode coverage yeah I\u0027ve got a copy of his paper that\u0027s in the queue to the mailing list and it should it should address everything he\u0027s talking about all right as I understand it we\u0027re having some mailing list issues right now so I haven\u0027t had the opportunity to see the comments but I look forward to them yes I\u0027m yes we\u0027re working on that and sorry about that okay so if Harlan just one quick question I guess it hasn\u0027t changed much from that much with respect to symmetric mode from the last revision to this revision but do you know if Dave\u0027s comments are based on the current revision or the previous revision my understanding is they\u0027re based on the current revision and in particular he said his belief is that DTLS will not work with with symmetric mode dieter may have a copy of this paper since I sent it to him directly all right so dieter has it but he hasn\u0027t had the time to read it yet so no worries um okay well we will be I\u0027m not hearing from that any reason why we can\u0027t go ahead and initiate the working group last call and this would be part of the discussion it part of the discussion that we could have during the working group last call yes okay okay well with that we will move to working group last call I think what I would like to do once we fix the tiny little mailing list problem is go ahead and start that this week and then I think maybe it\u0027s three weeks too short or too long three weeks I think three weeks is a good starting point if if dr. Mills has indeed identified some serious problem in symmetric mode then then we probably have to extend it but yeah I think we should three weeks behind now okay alright Harlan do you have any issue with the three-week working your class call starting few days as long as we can get the mailing this going soon no all right yeah so what not three "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:11:54",
    "text": "weeks starting from the day of mailing list availability I guess yes we should move the list and that\u0027s I had kind of hopes that this wouldn\u0027t become a discussion talking yes yes we need to move the mailing list it\u0027s been sort of one of these things that when it\u0027s working it doesn\u0027t matter and when it\u0027s not working Harlan and I don\u0027t I don\u0027t think he\u0027s actually speaking at this point I\u0027m kicking him out of the queue get back in all right um so yes at this point thank you very much Daniel and the the folks this has been a lot of work and we will send it to working your glass call and see where we end up next is on shell yeah I don\u0027t have any slides but there are a couple of updates to the enthalpy back draft there were a couple of questions raised during the last discussion so first was the algorithm agility and we added so I NTP has an inbuilt algorithm agility you know support for algorithmic agility there is this file called NTP . keys file which allows for the specification of the key identifier and the associated key as well as the we can also I mention the algorithm used which we want to use for the symmetric crypto for NTP packets currently there is only support for md5 but since we are proposing this new AES CMAC algorithm I think we can incorporate it in that donkeys for its own ntp so the point is that there is it allows for the transition from one algorithm to another so that should not be a problem I\u0027ve addressed that in the draft and the second issue was to have a test vectors section since we referred to RFC four four nine three four ACS D Simak implementation it contains the test vectors for AES CMAC itself and we also checked our implementation using the same vectors the draft itself uses the vectors from NIST CMAC document and I think we don\u0027t need new test vector so I have added the new test vectors referring to that draft I think that\u0027s it if anyone has any other questions any questions so this is another "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:54",
    "text": "document at our last interim we talked about moving this to working group last call as soon as we got an update to it so this is a really short document I don\u0027t see any reason why we can\u0027t do the working group last column parallel with the NPS document so I would like to start it this week and based on the discussions at the last meeting I don\u0027t see any reason not to do that okay oh client minimization Daniel data minimization right so there have been there have been no substantive changes or a much or any at all since since the last interim there is an issue of a bit of drama some individuals who are not present in to not ordinarily participate with the ITF have been making some some demands and accusations surrounding this draft and been abusive to the point that I believe I can no longer treat these surrounding issues and partially therefore I have requested the chairs to appoint an editor for this document to can make a fair decision on those issues right so so we have talked about this offline i i have solicited at least one potential editor anybody else who if there\u0027s any volunteers who really want to do this that would be great otherwise i will proceed with arm-twisting to get an editor so yes oh sorry you have to go to mike oh oh I\u0027m sorry Harlan I didn\u0027t see you again okay go ahead on she\u0027ll what isn\u0027t hi I\u0027m Julie from Boston University um what does it entail to have a new RFC editor like it\u0027s just a new what yeah it\u0027s just somebody will that the working group will be giving a check will be assigning chance can call for the document the the author\u0027s Oh Lorraine listed this so there\u0027s currently there\u0027s two authors on that document you and and Daniel so my intention would be to to have a third person that would be the editor of the document and then the authors would say as authors unless you asked unless you specifically want to be removed as an author and moved to the acknowledgement section but I think what what you\u0027re looking for is somebody else to arbitrate the comments that you\u0027re getting yes so description so I think the chair could be the person who arbitrates like I don\u0027t necessarily see like a new editor being required hello say so if like there\u0027s something you do it and like we\u0027ll take care of it like I don\u0027t think you necessarily need to stand on because your your job as editor is to do whatever the working group "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:17:54",
    "text": "wants you to do so and I think like I\u0027ll let the chairs decide like watch what\u0027s okay right so if you want to do it like you wanna step aside if it\u0027s difficult I don\u0027t know exactly what happened so like so if you want to share with me we can actually talk about it and I don\u0027t think it\u0027s acceptable that like you know this kind of personal stuff happens and especially on right here stuff so I don\u0027t know like how this happened but it\u0027s if it\u0027s an idea of activity I don\u0027t like this kind of things happening so and I really I\u0027m really fine with like you know you guys decided that\u0027s just deciding and yeah so you just like you know sitting like just document everything on the mailing you\u0027re saying okay this is like we look at these two things this what you decided Daniel can you make this change that\u0027s it okay well perhaps we can talk about it a little bit more okay um Harlan let me Dave had separate comments about this that go along the lines of he wonders why the document is at all necessary because it looks like the document basically is a reimplementation of smtp and since everything data minimization does can be done with SMTP Dave wonders why we even need it and as a side issue I think there may be an error in the minimization document where it talks about how the received timestamp for one gets sent back and that\u0027s data leakage but that only gets done in in symmetric mode that doesn\u0027t happen in client-server mode to my knowledge so the only thing we\u0027re dealing with is using a nonce for the the only thing we\u0027re doing is using a nonce for the origin timestamp and that\u0027s something that\u0027s already permitted with the SMTP spec yeah so I will I will go back through the SMTP spec carefully and see if the only thing I\u0027ve indicated it as a must in the document is already covered if that\u0027s the case then we can change the status and we can change its intended status from standards attracting firm national I think the document the document needs to be published regardless just to have a statement of the of the security and privacy considerations surrounding these choices okay you attempted an xiaoyun on the same Ben yeah I also wonder to say the same because that I think the document is necessary because it doesn\u0027t state the reason why we are doing this thing like the privacy issues that are involved it does I don\u0027t think any documentation in an smtp states that that he\u0027s thing behind why\u0027d we have that okay so my assessment of this conversation is that there\u0027s no reason why these are also not comments it could be addressed during working with last call right harlan yeah sure okay all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:04",
    "text": "right thank you next I switch the order of that huh actually I was that should have been moved down there so I\u0027m doing a dynamic agenda bash because I thought I fixed this I\u0027m going to move the NTP ref ID discussion down with the EF discussion at the bottom I wanted to cover all of the things that we had updates from the last meeting first and then we\u0027ll get to the stuff that is still sort of outstanding so BCP I beliefs updating half of Dennis these are the changes which have been okay these are the topics that are changed after the last fucking cool class call that basically changes to the language regarding sin a loaf pan sauces and the behavior of that changes to the language regarding any cars as an auto key section has been we crafted and also there is a pointer to the new feature of the NTP the content or key files of it at states that has also be a discussion on the Tod packets there has been some clarification introduced with some small editorial changes so all in Tenley\u0027s and Harlan is believing that the craft is major enough to go to the appeal to go to the next step right so so as far as so this document has gone through working group last call we\u0027ve addressed all the comments from the working group last call we had some things might go ahead from Harlan the new fourth column is in NTP keys yes it\u0027s this slide drawn okay I\u0027m also Chicago "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:11",
    "text": "okay so at this point I believe this document is ready to send to the isg I don\u0027t see any reason not to do it so that is what we plan to do next unless somebody opposes it well actually I guess if you opposed it you should have spoken up during the working your last call so this document will be proceeding to the isg shortly yang they\u0027re not here so there is an update to the we did a call for adoption we adopted the document it has been republished so we do have a yang data model for NTP that is published the authors of that are not here this week so what I would like to do is to encourage people to take a quick look at it probably in the timeframe of our next virtual meeting but we will discuss up moving that to a working your class call wait Heartland hi there I have a slight concern that no one has implemented it yet but from what I\u0027m seeing it shouldn\u0027t be too difficult I don\u0027t know we\u0027ll learn doing it you know it may there may be problems but at least overall I don\u0027t think it\u0027ll be difficult to implement yeah I\u0027m not sure if the authors are implementing it or not it could be there I\u0027ve spoken with them and they aren\u0027t planning on it and the only other side bit I will say there is Dennis Reilly and I were chatting about things and he commented on how one of the things he\u0027s noticing in the PTP meetings is they\u0027re specifying things in the standard before they\u0027re implemented and then they get to go back and fix them when they realize they don\u0027t work and let\u0027s just say we generally don\u0027t have that problem because we implement standard stuff after we\u0027re sure everything is polished and running yeah we don\u0027t any way that that\u0027s a fair point I think the difference between the 1588 stuff and the NTP yang model is that the NTP yang model is based on the NTP Lib which is based on 20 years of work so yes I think there\u0027s a lot less risk with this particular document than there would be with the 1588 specification where they\u0027re inventing a lot of additional new stuff so I agree huh there\u0027s still some risk though but it\u0027s very simple this is an ex all right so given the results of the working group last call I intend to send this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:12",
    "text": "the iesg so all right so next on the agenda tile did you want to talk about the work you\u0027ve been doing on time stamps great so my name is tal Mizrahi I\u0027m from Marvel and this craft is joint work with your team Intel and it\u0027s about guidelines for defining packet time stamp format and actually this was submitted to the internet area working group and this is presented here FYI because we believe this community may be interested in this it may have some valuable feedback next please okay so in general time stamps are widely used in the RFC series and we distinguish between two types of time stamp text-based time stamps and packet time stamps so on the Left we see an example of a text-based time stamp so we see in net con RPC and on the right we see an example of a packet time stamp which this is the NTP packet format so text-based time stamps are intended to be human friendly user friendly and packet time stamps are intended to have a fixed length because they need to fit into a packet header so this is the main difference between the two next slide please so like I said text-based time stamps are very common in many documents and we see a few examples here not an exhaustive list of examples but related to net confit and various RFC\u0027s related to Jason and XML and test based time stamps are defined in RFC three three three nine packet time stamps are also very common next slide please so we can see that packet time stamps are used in a lot of different RFC is also in a lot of internet drafts which are currently in progress so obviously a lot of network protocols require packet time stamps the problem that we\u0027re trying to address here is that there is no common time stamp format for packet time stamps as opposed to text-based time stamps and furthermore in many RF season internet drafts a new packet time stamp format is defined and the way time stamps are defined are not and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:13",
    "text": "necessarily in a standard way that is they\u0027re defined in different way not necessarily clear a lot of times there\u0027s some ambiguity about the way the format is defined next slide please so the goal of this draft is twofold actually first of all to define a small set of recommended time stamp format and the second is to specify guidelines regarding how to define a new time stamp format next slide please so this is the set of recommended time stamp formats that are currently defined in this draft so we have two formats which are based on the NTP time stamp we have the 64-bit NTP time stamp and the 32-bit time stamp and then on the right we see a PTP based format it\u0027s actually a concatenated 64 bit time stamp so the idea is that generally if you\u0027re defining a network protocol that will typically work on a PC or on a server then you will typically want to integrate that with NTP so we\u0027ll probably want to use an NTP based time stamp format and if you\u0027re defining a network protocol that will typically work on a hardware device which sometimes uses PTP then you may want to use the PTP based timestamp format so we expect that in most cases one of these times ten formats should fit your requirements however obviously not always so in some cases none of these is going to fit your requirements in terms of number of bits or in terms of granularity in these cases you want to define a new timestamp format so next slide please so if you do need to define a new timestamp format we\u0027re recommending to use this template these are basically the properties that needs to be well defined in order to implement the timestamp correctly so first of all you need to define the field format that is the number of bits in the units and if there are a few subfields you should define these for each of the subfields and you also need to define the epoch that is the point of reference for example the first of January 1970 any considerations related to wrap around when the timestamp is going to wrap around in 2036 or whatever and also any considerations related to synchronization whether we\u0027re requiring all the endpoints that are using this timestamp to be synchronized or not next slide please another aspect which is discussed in this draft is an optional control field so in some cases if you\u0027re using a timestamp you need some control "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:13",
    "text": "information regarding the timestamp so for example this control information can include what the timestamp format is it\u0027s precision or resolution the epoch the era and we\u0027re actually looking for feedback and more ideas of what kind of information you would expect to see in this control field so any feedback about this would be next slide please okay so this is the first draft we\u0027ve submitted it in the last month or so we\u0027re looking for any feedback you may have and especially we\u0027d like to collect requirements about the control field like I said we\u0027re also looking for feedback about what is the right place to discuss this document because like I said we did submit this to the internet area working group but obviously this draft may be relevant for different working groups in different areas so any opinions you may have about what is the right place to discuss this draft are also welcome Greg mirskiy CT well first thank you for taking on it because I think that this work was a long time due and yes I think that there are many groups who will be interested I recall that there was a discussion of considering adding timestamp formats to routing types data model so you might consider that I know that they\u0027re trying to wrap wrap this document but there might be some you know this or some other work so working with them talking with them and contributing might be just to create something that represents time stamps NTP PTP couple comments so you you refer to PTP 1588 concatenated format right I think that more recent is 1588 v2 and 64 bits is referred as a truncated okay and another thing is that yes we see it many protocols that try to serve both purposes ntp and PTP especially in a delay measurement so they do here identifier what type of format so if you can include it into your format and then have it in a data model as well because one of the examples will be 63 74 which allows you Brett and now in 81 you have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:14",
    "text": "support a collection of the time stamp and either format NTP or PTP and we use v2 truncated format as a 63 74 as well right that\u0027s a good point so that was one of the reasons we discussed the control field here because for example in RC 63 74 there\u0027s a dedicated field which specifies whether you use the PDP based or the ntp based timestamp so that\u0027s just you know one subfield of the control field but we try to generalize it and to possibly include more information that that may be relevant to it right but in data model when we need to talk about data model we don\u0027t have to really think about where it goes in a format but we just need to know what data represented it I see okay thanks so my my first snarky comment about this is we have 17 compatible standards so let\u0027s create one more that will solve everything but my my more sincere input is that I think we actually do have a valuable opportunity here which is to fix something that virtually every system since the dawn of computers have got has gotten wrong and that is that we we\u0027re doing binary UTC timestamps improperly in that we are unable to unambiguously represent the time during live seconds the way to fix that is that giving seconds in fractions is not sufficient we should be giving days seconds in fractions where the second will normally be less than 86,400 except during a leap second which case it will be equal to 80 6400 i relaying for yakov one the place for doing this is tick-tock and two like Daniel said we need to specify leap seconds are used or not and if fractional seconds or full Millie or micro or nano also needs to respect okay thanks suresh krisshnan eighty hat I think this is the right working group for this not interior for sure like it doesn\u0027t matter like who\u0027s gonna end up using this and and the way I think about it is like I look for fair I can get maximum review for this okay so if you put this in interior like I\u0027m gonna come to like NTP and tick-tock forever you anyway okay so it does not make sense to take it anywhere else and I don\u0027t make sure like everybody gets know about this in all the areas I\u0027d like we\u0027re gonna do an idea of last call and I can talk to my co Eddie\u0027s and say like okay guys like this is new timestamp um at but I really want that to happen here I mean tick-tock in NTP tick-tock like wherever like Karen wants to take it off right like but I want somebody with like time knowledge to take a look at this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:14",
    "text": "like not somebody in interior because like outside here is just users of this right like so I want somebody who has understanding of all the stuff to actually review it so I really think should be an NTP a tick-tock okay thanks I hope I also have a question is this theta from some pathologies point of view it would be fine to our information about self uncertainty or second strain could be can this be control right so this this could be one of the control fields so we listed precision here so precision is kind of a word that can mean different things but okay uncertainly that\u0027s that\u0027s a valid point yeah um Fubini so one of the co-authors so basically exactly this was one of the reasons for including the Contra field also for application layer application so we have right now in and I Triple E protocol in the synchro phasor measurement units protocol field in the sea 37 118 standard we have exactly so we have synchronization requirement of one microsecond and p.m. use are able to include this information how accurately they are synchronized to UTC into such a control field and something similar we planting truth is also here Thanks okay there\u0027s just one one more quick thing from Oh Harlan Oh our thing Oh Harlan so so Harlan you need to get back in the queue because I think I I don\u0027t think I hit the button but yeah he dropped out of queue okay that\u0027s good so yeah cough actually had a couple more themed okay so anyway uh yeah cough also question as to whether anyone is going to try to convert this to local time zones and he also says it may be nice to have an indicator as to the master clock so suffice it to say there are lots of suggestions carlins back alright Harlan hi you\u0027re covering a bunch of stuff and going down a road that we\u0027ve already gone we as in network time foundation have already gone down with this general timestamp API so we\u0027re covering the issues of pretty much everything that\u0027s been brought up and a bunch that people haven\u0027t thought of yet so we\u0027ve got stuff to start with and work with and we we\u0027ve been looking for a place to talk about this and just haven\u0027t found anywhere it looks like we\u0027re colliding and that would be a great thing to merge okay makes sense thanks all right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:16",
    "text": "yes on the timestamp formats all right so that could be agenda Harlan I\u0027m kicking you outs again so this actually brings me Sharon\u0027s timing is perfect so the we moved item number six the ref ID updates and the EF discussion down I know that we don\u0027t have any updated drafts yet so this is just a discussion about where we want ahead with those documents and I didn\u0027t my apologies I didn\u0027t catch you in advance to ask you about it and Harlan\u0027s online so between the two of you I just wondered there was you know talk to Harlan first okay oh absolutely yeah that\u0027d be perfect there\u0027s a whole set of documents out there and there\u0027s the results of the interim meeting and because we\u0027ve been so focused on the time and the the on the time on the security work it just sort of I think we are trying to wrap up the security stuff and then we\u0027ll get to the other pieces all right at that point that brings us to the NTP agenda oh do we want to talk about the the ref ID updates and the extensions he\u0027ll draft now or that later still uh Sharon indicated that she would like to talk about it after she\u0027s talked to you so one of the two of you get together and coordinate and we can move it to the next virtual meeting that we have if that\u0027s okay that\u0027s fine with me for whatever it\u0027s worth nothing has changed from all the documents I\u0027ve got pretty much are as they are there\u0027s a reasonable chance I\u0027m going to add another bit into the extended information extension field proposal but I\u0027ll know more about that within the next week or so okay if you review the notes from the virtual meeting the virtual meeting we had I don\u0027t know a month or two ago there was some next steps that we were going to take I believe ditch or me mailed you yesterday about those so so I\u0027d like to take this offline and then and we have plenty to do right now in the next month or so to get all the security stuff working group last call so no all right anything else Harlan okay so that brings me to the end of the NTP working groups portion of this agenda are there any questions comments related to that nope I do think this is pretty short it was only 45 minutes but I think we\u0027ve made a lot of progress over the last four or five months I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:16",
    "text": "think we\u0027ve got some stuff that\u0027s really close to going out the door which is very exciting um so the tick-tock agenda this one will be pretty short we have the tick-tock working group status and then we have the yang model if we go to the next slide I did actually prep a tick-tock working group status slide and part of the reason why I went ahead and put this slide together was I am very excited to announce that we actually got the PTP myth published huge thanks to suresh because i basically wash my hands of it and said please go solve this and he did so so so we are so that has now been published and that\u0027s very exciting the next thing I wanted to give a quick mention on is the PT free enterprise profile we are awaiting an author update on that and I haven\u0027t pushed too hard on this because I know right now the 1588 group is deep in into the working on their resolution and working group aleck comments member that for the first we did a first working group ballot for the update to 1588 and that has you know preparing answering the results of that has pretty much consumed that working group so I think again I\u0027m really sort of interested in wrapping up some of the time security work so I haven\u0027t pushed too hard on this to give the 1588 folks a bit of a breath so having said that we do have an update to the yang data model for 1588 v2 hi good morning that\u0027s very unknown from Hawaii we have a updated the young modulo to the fifth version so the tree it\u0027s almost fixed but for this aggression we added a new attribute as a underlying interface this attribute helps a user to reaches a topology or the pass out there who fit here transporter passes so it will help the monitoring and like no seasonal and their problems on the route so the next the summary of this ad version we add a new verse section it\u0027s a section "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:18",
    "text": "discusses why we used a single G hierarchy in first place the reason we use this kind of qi module high time since the original information module of the 58 a diversion to categorize member into three classes might configurable the second is the dynamic and the last is the static since some of the desire member can also change the status for example the poorest state in the 40s that said can be configurable or the dynamic that is read-only depending on their scenarios or implementations of this device so a Comanche is a quite a good representation of this behavior so consult her actually 58 at a meeting one of the co-author of the young module cantata with an MD AE author Robert Weldon insula he confirmed that a this module is actually consistent with up-to-date and emiti a Comanche so let\u0027s have for dinner for us the current state has in the industry what a few vendors have shown interest to demo or implement their young Mario more more vendors were are still waiting for the publication\u0027s that they can be without have any changes to the devices so the publication we are at the momentum of of influence just here in the last month the attitude here sorry group meeting also approved a new work group item that\u0027s on the single Indonesian management it\u0027s targeted to developed transport equipment information model for synchronization management some people have reached the points at her it\u0027s best to be consistent "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:19",
    "text": "with 58 ATM model whoever an application worker yeah so that\u0027s another thing having written today last ride so this version has been there for quite some time we\u0027d like to see more feedback if there is any concerns or new improvements needed and lastly we\u0027d like to hold whether it\u0027s ready for the work group last call thank you okay [Music] so this document I believe to be ready for working your class called that do we have any concerns about that the one thing that I will be doing is I mean this one of the co-authors on this is one of the one of the members of the pitching of the egg working group but I will also inform them that we are doing this working group last call so does anybody I don\u0027t know how much overlap and this is a this is a very small working group very small community so I I don\u0027t like to do too many working group last calls at the same time perhaps if we know Suresh is going to this mic to provide a tea guidance ah so slightly different topic i\u0027m suresh krisshnan so we talked about this in berlin right like to see like what what\u0027s going to end up with this like are you gonna go with foreign arcs you\u0027re not you made a decision that is gonna proceed to an RFC because like we are wondering whether it should say internet draft get done and then sent up societally i\u0027d like tell us one option we considered right so did you make a decision that will go for RF seekers because the authors are concerned about the you know the transfer right so that so that\u0027s why we talked about this okay what right we but I believe we resolve the issues associated with the transfer and so we were going to publish this as an artsy fit the 1588 working group does not plan to publish a yang model for v2 for the next version okay I don\u0027t think it\u0027s p3 so the so as I said before the transfer in our direction is not the issue as long as the author\u0027s consent right so like we do provide like you know try to do derivative works of our stuff yes right so that should be okay so as long as it\u0027s like a conscious decision I\u0027m okay right yes it is that we had quite a bit "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:22",
    "text": "of discussion about it and the intention is to publish this version publish the version for v2 the question is what would happen for the next and I to be honest I think what\u0027s gonna end up happening is the next the next version of the 1588 specification will include a generic data model itself I don\u0027t mind you staggering it like staggering the last calls and I don\u0027t mind waiting for this like whenever you see this bandit in the book to do it do it okay and if this is the last item like I I think like this couple of things add necessary things that we need to do like that\u0027s the the combining the working of charters I want to remind you like to think about it at some time right so so I can think of a good-looking group name time so the right so we\u0027ve had several let me viscosity we\u0027ve had several conversations about why why do we have two working groups because they consistently meet together and they\u0027re both related to time and to some extent we kind of hated to lose the heritage of the ntp one but we thought perhaps combining the two and having a new working group called time where all of the time issues in the IHF would go and that would include ntp PTP timestamp formats stuff like that so we have i\u0027ve been threatening this for a while and I just haven\u0027t actually proceeded with writing a new charter that tell okay so so the other related issue of the meaningless stuff so I if this is gonna happen like I\u0027m not gonna like you know push on the ntp mailing is more and then we can just like postpone this until like you know we have like a new charter and this just don\u0027t new list and we done with it right otherwise it\u0027s like you know let\u0027s try to get that started like so I\u0027m not gonna push you to like Mozilla store but at least I can get that stuff started like so if you send me like small description of the IETF list I\u0027ll get that created and waiting right like for the stuff to mow over I don\u0027t know how to have the delay after we decide to move on okay that would be fine um the one thing is because we will finish quite early today if there\u0027s a couple people that want to stick around and help draft a charter that would be would be really fabulous so I did ask Brian Haberman to help and he was willing like at some point right like so maybe whoever helps now is good but also drag him in because like oh yeah Brian is Brian is on speed dial to solve my NTP problems Danny was gonna help I will note that if we go through with this then there will now be a ETF working groups named time and dime and I\u0027m not sure that that all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:24",
    "text": "languages are able to distinguish those phonemes says in ace we have to deal with coarse grain time synchronization currently envisioned situation solution does not fit in MTP or tick tock but could be in a combined time working group okay thank you Yakko opportunity to call it target parties and just answer Daniel I think I might be going away soon so just so that\u0027s a data point yeah you\u0027re responsible for the name chick talk so I\u0027m not sure I\u0027m gonna let you name any more working groups all right um no that was Stewart it\u0027s a real shame you can\u0027t get in the queue yet oh all right so are there any other questions for today\u0027s oh wait Mike Thomas rahi marvel it\u0027s just an administrative comment I think it would really be helpful if every draft that is discussed even if it\u0027s a very short update on the status if we had at least one slide for each dress that would be great oh yeah I\u0027m sorry you\u0027re done thank you I wasn\u0027t all right so one slide for each draft coming forward at the end of the last interim I sent out sort of a summary of high-level summary of the actions it wasn\u0027t really a set of minutes I think I\u0027m gonna do that again today even though we didn\u0027t actually quite meet all the things we said we were gonna do out of the interim at least it was helpful to to go through each of the drafts that was discussed and summarize what the results and next steps were so with so we can look for that going forward there the question for you Suresh is for combining the working group with all of these existing drafts I don\u0027t want to rename everything that\u0027s mine but that\u0027s it I don\u0027t have to do that okay that would be great okay all right with that you all have an hour and a half extra in your day thank you very much oh wait wait wait just one second somebody\u0027s getting in the queue okay can you hear me yes I can hear you great rain so now us from telecom bretagne yes in ace working group we will be dealing with the problem of time synchronization and we have to come up with a solution lightweight and actually it\u0027s not we don\u0027t need a precision time we only need a rough time with with a server so if I don\u0027t know currently doesn\u0027t fit on this neither on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:25",
    "text": "tik-tok working group or ntp but in the future if you have a more general working group for time related to the issues I think we can make use of your expertise okay thank you I know that a year or two ago I had a conversation with Hannes about the time work in the age working group yeah we will need time synchronization but a very simple protocol and maybe we will use a saver and all stuff we use on internet of things so currently it\u0027s not yeah it will be a new solution okay thank you very much okay last call for any last comments oh no I thought oh you want to talk okay all right with that everyone\u0027s excused goodbye thank you very much Oh unless you want to help with the Charter that would be great "
  }
]