[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "well update him for the proceedings hello everyone and welcome to sag welcome back from lunch my name is Roman Jeanne Leo and I am Ben Caidic and we should try that not be throwing things and hitting each other so we got the blue sheets going around and Roman already got us the jabber scribe and the minute taker so we will get started this is no well he\u0027s noted well if you have not already noted it well not too much on the agenda today just the usual weird reports and then the open mic the slides we have are made as of 119 this afternoon so 11 minutes ago so if you have sent something in the last 11 minutes it will not be reflected in these slides so I guess we should just page through these slowly and if someone has further comments that they want to mention we can just bring those up to Mike lamps we get a report for lamps so I have my co-chair said he would send this surprised the group is moving along pretty quickly we have I think three or four documents with the isg right now we have a recharter that should be on the next LH at if that happens then we have a whole bunch work that will be up for adoption anything exciting going on for MLS I\u0027ll just see you on Friday anything you say about the first meeting of OAuth happened okay so I can add an OAuth we had the related TX off both which we\u0027re going to talk about and then there has been talk about something dumped off 2.1 anything happened in TLS before lunch uh "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:07",
    "text": "yeah we there were presentations on some ongoing working group documents delegate credentials exported authenticators and then we had some new work on batch signing compact II uh since I\u0027m he said act if you helmet and I just sent the report they\u0027re just good to go so and then we\u0027re gonna be talking about yes Annihilator today so yeah we had a lot of talk about external PS case as well no yes thank you so we had two baths in the security area we had math math mesh and we also have TX auth so folks want to say anything relative to the math mesh Baath the kind of the summary was we heard about a broad area of technologies we heard about one particular application domain there was not a lot of excitement about that particular application domain but we talked about others and there was interest in following up on some of the specific kind of technology issues and that was the next step coming out of that loss so TX off do teachers want to say anything since there was no report actually did send out a report but anyway so we had a presentation of all like protocol which is not backward-compatible with oauth2 and addresses a few more use cases and has a different flow than today\u0027s all still there was agreement over all across the room about the problems there\u0027s no no agreement on a way forward yet as you mentioned there\u0027s discussion at the same time about an oath to rewrite tentatively named their two point one as well as this O three this is being hashed out as we speak so I think there also may be a few side meanings in this general space did anyone go to those that is here look excites I was at a off-site meeting that mostly disgusts off 2.1 or continued the discussion of off to that one from the ORS first off meeting was it mostly just discussion or any any good conclusions well someone volunteered to do some work but I can\u0027t recall the name right now Aram I could could be but that let him confirm that\u0027s hopefully they remember "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:07",
    "text": "that they signed up to do the work okay so there is a lot of other security work that\u0027s happening across the IETF we have a scattershot of some of them both in the working groups in the IRT F in the IAB and through liaison activities so if anyone wants to come up to the mic now to describe some of that please please do so I guess when we\u0027re making the slides I put him up here we\u0027ve got some some cootie related work going on there talking about like the autonomic network infrastructure and the security protocols and security secure communications mesh for that and so they want to use x.509 certificates to authenticate all the nodes in the sort of autonomic network and I\u0027ve been having a little bit of a back-and-forth with the authors about how exactly they\u0027re going to use the x.509 certificates because they have some information that they want to put in the RFC 82 name field of the certificate and I\u0027m not I\u0027m having a hard time convincing myself that this is like within the spirit of x.509 so I\u0027ve I think I\u0027ve talked to a few people in person about this but they\u0027ve got in addition to like IP address in string form they have the sort of name of the acp domain in the you know domain part of the a 22 name but then there\u0027s some some other stuff as well including like a arbitrary subdomain name and a whole form or extensions and it\u0027s it\u0027s a little bit weird to be constructing your own structured name within the constraints of the a.22 name at least to me so anybody who is interested in thinking about this a bit more I\u0027d be happy to talk to you at some point not necessarily now and get a actual resolution for them because I don\u0027t want to keep holding a discus forever thank you for the open mic yeah all right so um you asked about possible stuff in the security area so the UT a working group hasn\u0027t met for awhile and there is like the old stuff to clear up but we had a couple of a couple of us had a discussion in a break whether it\u0027s time to do a BCP on deployment experience from 103 or if it\u0027s too soon is there stuff you know that should get out there in terms of like that kind of the kind of stuff that we put in in the BCP for 1.2 that\u0027s an open question for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:08",
    "text": "community yeah I think I\u0027d started talking to the TLS chairs a little bit about that and you know there\u0027s maybe some work to do in the space about updating our recommendations like a cretin is a PCP 210 195 I don\u0027t remember the RSC 75252 you include to us we\u0027re not three in those recommendations but I think we and you Chris and Joe and Shawn you can correct me if I\u0027m wrong but I think we decided that we will but more to get a little bit more deployment experience maybe some more specific experience with Xero RTT before we start doing that right that was gonna be my photo of question whether that\u0027s gonna be the focus maybe it may be it will be right but anyway I guess the working group will hibernate for a while and you know see if some something else turns up I don\u0027t think so but I think we\u0027ll wait for for you guys to tell us when it\u0027s time to wake up and do some work okay or we could like close and retire it depending on Bob Moss would say she consulting you have TMR ID up there the decision seems to be to move forward to a working group for TMR d we\u0027re now we\u0027re here in the scope of the other charter of interest to the stag group would be Graf Whitaker tiem Rd I\u0027m off and Adam has an interesting spelling of Whitaker so I suggest you look at the boss information to get the proper spelling to find the draft the reason I mention it is that one of the things that we have to struggle with is authenticating these really short messages previously sent which we hash and then include the hashes in the auth message which is then signed so discussion on what we have created there the first set of thoughts we have on that we\u0027re really open to other ideas and thoughts are working this extremely constrained environment and how to authenticate 25 byte messages and and to prove the owner of which actually you a sent those messages by hashing them and including them in the much longer auth message so a bunch of other eyes on that draft are greatly appreciated the draft is really rough right now but really appreciate assistance on that one and Bob do you know maybe send that to the email lists as well I will send that to the sackless yes just a quick note since you do have NTP up there we did submit NTS to the is G so hopefully that\u0027s almost done and we have adopted two additional drafts that are related to security one on rough time and one on Chronos so those are security related items that are going on in the NTP working group thank you I also put up there the IAB not program "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:08",
    "text": "so just IAB activity for the threat model discussion I know Stephen or yari do you want to say anything about that yah react so there\u0027s been some amount of activity on that so we Stephen I emerged our draft we\u0027re still working on through the other feedback that we\u0027ve gotten and at this idea we had a site meeting 22 people attended and it seems like there was quite a bit of interest and some set of people willing to contribute different aspects of the topic and so we\u0027re cranking away I think and gets the overall plan is that we will provide some documentation and rationale for you know why why are we in this situation essentially I guess because we\u0027ve made some progress in terms of communication security and now some of the threats our that we have to worry about are the remaining ones and that\u0027s why the focus has has changed and you know isn\u0027t this sort of supporting documentation we\u0027d like to get sort of one pager that that is you know this is how we would like to change our see 3552 it\u0027s uh at least my interpretation of the of the situation but war continues yeah I think that was my interpretation as well that we if everything goes well end up with like a one page update to 3552 for the broadened scope of things that we have to think about because we\u0027ve been doing so well encrypting everything okay other security updates from other working groups inside and outside the idea going once twice okay so with that we\u0027re gonna open up the mic line is there anything someone would like to talk about we could have had a longer lunch I guess all right well we\u0027re not gonna wait for them okay going once going twice anyone want to come up to the mic all right in that case we\u0027re gonna call it thanks so much and who wear the blue sheets if you have the blue sheets please hold them up I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:08",
    "text": "see two clipboards excellent if you have not signed the blue sheets please find the people with the blue sheets or come up to the front you "
  }
]