[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:12",
    "text": "um here [Music] okay let's get started hello this is six-man working group just to check in i see familiar faces but just in case if you're in the wrong room so we have two hours today we have bulb remote me here and only very very remote so he could not even join us so note well please take a few seconds to read it if you if it's the first time you see it or maybe if it even if you see it before it's like airlines right they always ask you to check the safety card even if you're a freaking flyer so housekeeping i was going to say please very much but everyone do an attenuation great so uh please if you're joining the queue being in the room please still use on-site tool because it would make my life much much easier in terms of cue management and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "state your name at the microphone david who is taking minutes will greatly appreciate that try to leave the view when done i personally keep forgetting that but still and remote participants please keep your video and audio off until you start speaking and then please use headset uh so and we also if i can just add one thing the chat seems to not be working so yeah yes yeah seri confirmed looks like individual messages work in the me take a chat but you cannot send messages to the group chat thanks bob so here is a link to the agenda which has all other useful links there like to the slides meeting materials chat and so on uh so agenda busy one today so we have approximately 65 minutes for working group documents we have four drafts then we are going to spend another 45 minutes on individual documents and we also have some time permitting with no time allocated but i don't know maybe we can done with our working group business so quickly so we can have some backup presentations yeah we seriously we got like about hour and a half more requests that we can accommodate so what's happened since we met last time we published an rfc on i am in segment routing minimum pass mtu hope by hope option is an rfc editor skill we have about one tricky document and i'll"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "uh have another slide just for that about uh alternate marking method and there is a document which makes me feel guilty because i'm still working on the write-up it's a six eight seventy four bits so it's hopefully will be out for ad review later this week and yeah and as i said we have five working group documents four of them will be presented today and one which is actually dangerously close to get expired but i have not heard from authors here so the last of the chair slide if you didn't pay attention to the mailing list we had a interesting case when a document was adopted by the working group went through the working group last call and the etf last call and was reviewed by asg but then quite late an apr disclosure was made by one of the authors and some requests were made some comments were made about shall we consider it as a significant change to the document or at least something which working group needs to be aware of and decide if we still have consensus on proceeding with the document so altmark document was returned to the working group in the beginning of july and the chairs believe that there is still consensus few comments were made but it looks like there is no violent disagreement on proceeding with the document so just today after some delay yeah i updated the thread so i think we're good to proceed with that one but to the all authors please if you have an ipr disclosure it will really appreciate if it's done before the document is out of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "working group so i think that all the chair slides any like last minute comments to the agenda or nothing great so i guess our first presentation today is suresh who is the segment identifiers i am going to share [Music] thank you jen next slide yeah thank you it's my really my only slide really but uh i'll try to keep this very short so this draft has been adopted like at the last itf meeting and confirmed on the list after and there were a bunch of comments so some of them just editorial there's also some substantive comments and they've all been addressed in the zero one draft so one key thing that came up was like a slight worrying confusion in the iona consideration section so i had used the word global unicast right and people kind of some of the like rirs were like bit confused that this is going into territory that the rars like kind of like allocate from so kind of reverted the whole thing to say this is not coming from the rir allocatable space but instead it comes from the ietf resource space right like so that's like one major thing and thanks jen judge michaelson and ted who kind of i tried on this so i can come up with the like right change there it's very small change but it's very important because it clarifies where the space comes out of and then we can define the properties of the space and another thing is like from darren's because i was talking about stuff changing on the fly right on in transit and one key thing was like it only changes at what could be a segment endpoint so it doesn't change uh really nearly at any transit point so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "i think that's something it has a little bit of loose wording on my part and darren pointed that out so that's fixed as well and the last thing is like either you can think of it as one point or two points but it came from brian right like so and this whole thing started like thanks to eric and joel it started with like a request coming from spring to six man right saying hey write up like this thing and so we've done that and as a result of writing this stuff up there's some actions that need to be performed in spring at some future point so we need to kind of close the loop on this tell spring that hey you asked us to do this we've done it and by the way there's also other stuff for you to do right as a result of this but that's something we probably need to craft an official message like jen bob and oolani comes back to get that message out to spring to kind of close the loop on this um that's pretty much what's in there so there's like no pending comments on this so if you have any comments like please feel free to bring them up here or on the mailing list after and i'll be like very very quick to kind of make the changes that is required and let's go forward with it so next slide jen yep so um if like you know something um is going to hold unless something holds it up like it'll be i think the document is ready for working with last call so i would officially request the chairs to um go for like working group last call on this pending some hold down timer after the meeting and also to um write up something towards the spring working group i know joel is here and jim is here as well so like but to write something up officially towards spring to say like hey we've done this please look at it and they can follow the mail to the group and go from there thank you yeah any comments questions silence sounds like consensus"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:11",
    "text": "the case of the battery dead mic it was just off yeah uh airplane so i guess i was gonna try to channel andrew who's not here and ask about whether or not the uh what people think about the slash 16 being a must not in the in the dfc uh okay so if you look at the draft today right so the idea is like so one of the actions that's for spring so if you can go back to the previous slide right is to do the um operational guidelines for the 16 as well right like that like spring needs to develop so the idea would be some operators who are deploying this would write that up and i'm perfectly fine with that right but that's i think um that would be a fine thing to write somewhere right does that belong in this document i don't know right like that's um i think it's open to discussion so if you want to put that in here that's fine and if it's going to go into an operational guideline document that's fine too right because the goal is for somebody to be able to filter it right like so um and if you need like a stronger recommendation somewhere that's fine and like yeah so it's andros like puts that up i think we can certainly work on where we need to put it in so maybe we just put that in the communication with spring okay yeah thanks okay so thank you fresh i think we'll issue the last call after this meeting so sometime probably early next week maybe this week yeah and yeah well not this week like i know you're like stressed so next week is good thank you thanks john thanks thanks okay and the next presentation is hope i hope processing procedures i'm i'm going to share the slides so you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "want me to present hi um i get up here we go what okay [Music] hi so um this talk is traditionally done by bob and i as we move between a square on the ground and the itf both was the remote this time so we'll do our best to be brief but we'd like to tell you about the updates we've done to the hot buy options processing procedures bob will chip in as he needs to so um the previous version was working group zero zero and we were working our way through a large number of adoption questions comments and other feedback and we made a number of updates that are present in the zero one draft we added text to section one to make the focus clear we're setting a minimum bound in this document for what we hope to see actually deployed in equipment what we hope to see the end systems being able to use across an ipv6 path and this doesn't necessarily control anything about what you might do more than the minimum we added text to section four"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "we said that some options will be supported internet wide and others might not be in limited domains we added some references and clarified the h.200 comments fixed the typo and then importantly change the should not from a must not and if you really cared about issue 21 you will realize that that is what people were asking for where we did the working group adoption so i think that that is the summary of what we changed is that okay bob uh yes so i guess the other thing we should say is we have an issue tracker it's the six six-man tracker and we're trying to recall issues for this draft in that issue tracker there were 21 issues when we started this from the adoption call which is a very healthy group of issues to address there are currently nine open issues so i'll talk through those the nine open issues actually relate to fewer than nine points and this is our summary the the first one is what status will this internet draft have when it's published as an rfc i probably was difficult to judge that at the beginning now it's maturing you might want to try and help us figure this out should it be a bcp should it do requirements or simply be informational might be good as a bcp perhaps i don't know and please tell us because we really would like to know what is best um issues 9 and 15 relate to router alert or the router alert option which was mentioned a number of times it is a hotbar hop option and we're expecting this to be titled by another it's that draft in six months so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "hopefully we can clear this issue by saying another draft we'll talk about this now the most exciting thing of all what do we call it when a router processes a hot bypop option as part of its forwarding it could be processed maybe in software it could be processed in an asic it could be processed in some offload or machine engine we previously called this slow path and fast path people hated that because they said it referred to a router design rather than a a way of processing so we now talk about processing extension headers particularly hot by hop headers at full processing speed we think that resolves the issue of talking about slow path and fast path but to believe we solved it you'd have to read the text and tell us that you like what we've written um i'll talk briefly about number eight which is lack of graceful handling of malformed extension headers we think this is a security issue we'd like to add some text and security considerations for this if you care about malformed extension headers please help us write that text we think it's more or less the same as any other malformed header and if you write bad router chord then your rotators will either crash or behave badly if you write good writer chord and protect the code that you don't have a problem doesn't seem like something new for hot by hop options um rsc 9098 talks about processing the payloads of ipv6 packets as you forward them and again if you're interested in this topic and think there's good text on that please tell us doesn't particularly relate to hotbackup options and it may perhaps be something to mention in security considerations since"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "this is commonly done by firewalls and other middle boxes uh we don't have any asic experience well i don't i don't think bob has either so if you know about what asics are actually deployed in new equipment and want to talk to us please do we would love to hear you we will be influenced by people who tell us that they are deploying things at scale that do things that need things to happen so talk to us please if you're thinking about having extension header support for hot options we'd love to hear from you and the last one was a comment i don't know what to do with so we will leave that on the screen as well as issue number two so that was my quick tour and we really do want people to read the document so the first thing we'd like you to look at is whether we have eliminated the definition of fast path and slow path i replaced it by something useful talking about full forwarding rate please read the draft we think this issue is solved we'd love to hear people's feedback about whether we've got good language here or suggestions of something better i talked about this i think it's a security consideration if you agree please tell me if you disagree please tell us bob we talked about this we don't see this as a particular issue if you think it is please talk to us so what are the next steps well if we've actually resolved the issues we've talked about then our document is either ready to decide it's standard status and publish as a buyer working group last call or it's time for people to tell us that there are more issues with it either way we're looking for reviews of our document to revise our id and i think that's our slide deck any comments or questions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:13",
    "text": "um i haven't looked at the document for the last something you know months but if you need a review i can volunteer to do a you know another review of the document well if you anyone offers to review that would be great and fernando you asked some of the questions i've just put up so yes please give us feedback on whether we're making progress and suggest more text for the pieces we need to solve wonderful yeah i think um i would add particularly you know if you see an issue in this document please suggest text how to resolve it that's very helpful to us okay so yeah please read the draft i think we should have some discussion on the list and yeah based on that then decide after closing those issues here we can discuss the last call so any more last minute comments questions ah we're doing well today hello thank you okay thank you gori okay the next presentation is fernando improvement to stateless of the configuration okay can you show the slide from there uh okay yeah if you want me to yeah sure i'll share the slides just a second okay so hi all this is uh fernando bond i'll be doing the presentation on the document improving the robustness of stateless address auto configuration to flash renumbering events"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "uh next slide please so super you know short uh background essentially this is a topic that we have been working on for you know a couple of years now um there are a few documents that some of these work was has been carried out in you know in the b6 group so we have rfc 8978 uh which is essentially the problem statement document then we also produce rfc 1996 which is recommendations for customer edge routers and finally this is you know the last remaining item this document that i'll be presenting today which is protocol improvements to actually you know improve the the handling of uh flash renumbering events uh next slide okay so uh a few comments about the progress on on this idea so essentially what we have been doing is uh you know incorporate the contents of the uh individual submission uh first comment is that i recently last month or so called the six month working group about two specific items um we have received some comments on those but if for some reason you have missed them please you know feel free i will send an email to the mailing list to you know to highlight the the threads so if you have comments on those two topics uh please do send your comments um so that we can address them uh you know when we produce the the resultant text for the document and there was only a single um you know topic or issue to to address which was the uh that of incorporating the algorithm to uh with heuristics to deprecate stale information uh what we have done uh is to produce a i would say a simpler and more robust uh algorithm uh from what we had in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "individual submission and you know the goal of this presentation is essentially to uh to describe the you know the algorithm uh you know from a conceptual level and you know afterwards i'll be sending the draft text to the mailing list for you specific review of of the text okay next slide please so what's the idea and actually this like this slide makes it look like more complex than it actually so what's the basic idea of this algorithm the the improved algorithm that we have produced so the idea is super simple um if your host receives an array that uh contains missing information so it's lacking information that was received beforehand what we want to do is to uh pull the corresponding router with a unicast router solicitation to double check if the information is there or not okay then based on the result of that we can decide whether you know yeah the information was there and we can you know keep the information or actually no the information has become stale so we should you know get rid of it um this slide just makes the you know the process or or the algorithm more uh it just addresses details so we start at the beginning when an array is received okay we are considering arrays that are missing information that have been previously received from this router okay so if we have one of those cases then we will wait for some time this would be like a couple of seconds because it could be in theory doesn't happen in practice but could happen in theory that the router is splitting the um slack information into multiple packets so we will wait for some time here then if that information is not hasn't been received what we do is just wait a random small random period of time that's just to avoid a lot of host on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "the same network to pull the router at the same time that's the the random way that we have there and then what we do is essentially just pull the local router with a unicast router solicitation what we do what we do by default in the algorithm is just pull once but it's you know up to the implementation you could you know pull pull multiple times send an arrays you know if you don't get what you want you pull again and so on if when we get to the arrays rs rs proof timeout here you know by the end of the yellow graphic we haven't received the missing information from the router so that means that the information has become stale okay and what we do is essentially uh remove that uh stale data so in the next slides what i have is essentially like uh you know the same graphic but an analysis of your typical scenarios so next slide please so this is the most usual case you know nothing bad is going on so we just receive an array with all the same information that we had received before okay everything's okay there's nothing to do there's no missing information nothing to trigger there all information is fresh next slide then we have the case of fresh data but with the corner case theoretical corner case where the router splits the slack information into multiple packets again i've never seen that and i don't know anyone that has seen this in practice but in theory the specs allow it so what we have is we receive an array the first one okay that doesn't contain all the information that we have previously received from this router okay so we wait for some we enter this algorithm and the algorithm says okay before you not pull the router before trying to pull the router just wait for some time because the information might arrive in a separate array so we wait"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "for some time and we indeed receive the array with the missing data okay so again all the information is fresh there's nothing to do about it we are okay that's why we have the you know the green stuff in there next slide please we have another this is again corner case we are just trying to be super robust we have again the corner case where we have a router that is spreading the slack information into multiple arrays and there's also packet loss okay so some of those arrays with partial information might be lost so we start here uh with an array that contains partial information and when we receive that array we say okay well partial information we need to double check if the rest of the information is there or not we wait for some time we wait for the missing data but one of the other arrays just got lost okay so what we do is we do a random wait this is just a few seconds random value of a few seconds and then we decide to prove the router with a unicast router solicitation this is when we enter the you know yellow stuff in here so we send the proof to the router the router responds and we do receive the missing information so all the information has been refreshed nothing else to do we are okay we entered the green stuff again and last slide the next slide sorry well next slide is exactly the same so we receive an array with partial information we wait some time to receive the missing data we don't receive it so we say okay time to pull the router to see if the information is there we do pull the router but we never receive that missing information so after pulling the router in our case we pull the rotor just once a single rs"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "but it's you know it's it's configurable you could you know request that host pulls the rotor more than once once we get the response from the router from the advertising router if the information is not there we say okay we hadn't received the information before we pulled the router the router is still not sending that information we consider the information has become stale so we we disassociate that information with the router okay uh next slide so that's the algorithm uh it uh it's uh it's uh it's simpler and improve over the version that we had for at least two reasons two reasons first one is that in the previous algorithm we were you know we had to modify uh you know the timers for example of the options which that made the you know the algorithm more complex that's one thing and the second thing is that the principle here is super simple if there's information that is missing what we do we send uh we pull the router with a unicast rotor solicitation and wait what comes back if the information doesn't come back well it's not there and so the principle is is simple and obviously more robust than the previous algorithm so we will send the you know the text for the you know for the you know the the algorithm to the main list for review but i'm i'm wondering if there are any you know comments or questions about it yep tommaso piccolo university of florence just a quick question uh what if the information keep being sent and behind lost uh i mean suppose that super corner k is of a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "router that sends the array with two or more packets and it keeps sending the information upon a ruler solicitation unicast and it keeps being lost sometimes i think that we need a number of retries time after which it is given up uh altogether yeah so the algorithm does consider you know that of the number of probes to be configurable so i would say that you know slack anyway assumes that you know uh if off the top of my head like you know three retransmissions and you know if after you retransmit three times things don't work well slug will break anyway uh but so if we wanted to fail on the safe side we could you know instead of defaulting to a single proof we could def we could default to three that's that's in the document already it's just you know changing the default value from one which is what we have right now to three but it's a valid point tim winners qa cafe my question would be do you want to send a the multicast ra out at the very end before you get rid of the info to make sure there's nobody out there that might have the no router out there that might answer you uh no because you do this on a pair router basis so thinking from a multi-router multi-prefix uh point of view what you do is you don't remove the information altogether but you disassociate that information with the that specific advertising router if there's any other system that you know is advertising the same information it's okay so you will keep that other part it's just disassociating the information with that particular router the only case in which you end up completely removing the information if there was a single router advertising the information yeah i guess the only case there i guess would be failover okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:04",
    "text": "i actually yeah no heads just dragging cover just curious yes so i also was going to ask was timmy asked about sending maybe all routers not unicast because it might be a corner case when you link local address of one of the routers changed but the information pios advertised by the trouser is still the same so in this case i guess you don't you would not see it yet for example maybe you haven't received an array from that router but you would not ask as a trouter at all right but my expect my at least my expectation would be that uh you know when and that is according to 4861 that if you know the the router for example change the address and it becomes a you know an advert advertising router it will multicast the information and actually a couple of times from you know as soon as it you know joins the network so you should have received that information too okay but it's something that we could do anyway i i don't mind you know doing that i don't mind okay and the second question i'm just curious so uh remind me when you say you remove this the associate outdated information you mean make the address invalid or duplicated so in this case what we do is uh first of all we we don't say we eliminate the information so what we say is we don't consider that this information has been advertised by that particular router now assuming that a single router was advertising the information to you know to go back to your case what we do is we would end up removing the addresses okay because we are proving the router okay so it's not that just we missed we are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "proving the router the router is responding and the router is not advertising the prefix anymore okay so any existing sessions which are happening between devices on the same link using that address will be disconnected right if that is the only router alberta's advertising the prefix yes like can you i'm just curious if there's any strong reason to do that because if you have like sessions between two devices on the same link you're basically breaking it while the session could have survived yes but i would say that that is a side effect when you are using uh essentially uh provider dependent prefixes for local connections so uh i would say that's that's the case uh and the reason for which we uh it's a valid point to you know to re-evaluate uh the reason for which we are uh we suggest to remove the addresses is that the router is responding so it's not that it's dead it's responding and not sending the prefix anymore so otherwise you would be dragging information that has become stale it's not that the you know there's a transient problem with the router that is not responding it's responding and not advertising the prefix cool it's a very last question so you not responding means there is no pio or pio with preferred lifetime available zero preferred lifetime zero more interest in corner case it means the router is responding so it's it is sending an array but it's not including the pio that has that had previously been advertised okay so which is the case so like preferred lifetime zero in that pio will be still counted as advertised just curious er yes okay thank you yes bob"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "you were in the queue now oh you disappeared yeah i was just going to ask that um bison i think we asked fernando that um he said you've never seen a case of a router splitting information over two ras so i based on that i wonder if it's necessary or how useful it is to have the case you know to include that in this document so it is included so we haven't seen that case in practice but still the algorithm accommodates that case so the algorithm is robust in that case so we don't react right away when you receive an array with partial information but actually wait for other possible arrays containing the missing information to arrive okay thank you okay no i'd send the the the draft text for the for the algorithm on on the list that you know in this slides we cover the you know the the let's say the the concept of the algorithm i will send the text so that you know folks can look into more detail and provide feedback yes so i assume this is like section 4.5 that says tbd yeah yeah um can i ask whether your proposed text is largely narrative or will it be framed in the in in the will it be framed as a state machine particularly the state machine that needs to be implemented to keep this yeah yeah i can i have the text already i can send it right away i was just going to express a personal preference i don't know about anybody else but a personal preference for like describing a state machine operation okay i think it'll be yeah thank you okay any more questions okay good thank you fernando looking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "forward to seeing updated version and the next presentation is covering vtp information and extension headers okay you don't uh would you are going to share the slides so you like me to present uh you want me to share my desktop uh from this like you you can request sharing slides so i can do that for you and you'll just ask me to move forward okay so maybe you can help to share it okay thank you yeah okay so uh hello everyone uh this is from huawei and i'm going to give an update about this uh draft on carrying the waiting information in the ipv56 extension header on behalf of these co-authors okay next slide please so here are some backgrounds and the current status of this draft basically this document introduced a new harbor hub option to carry with information in ipv6 package it is used by the transient nodes on the path to steered package to the set of natural resources allocated to vtn we received comments uh during and after the adoption call and this shows that there is interest to make this option generic and more flexible so in the last item meeting the authors presented some considerations about the extensibility of this fitting option both in the semantics and also the format so in this zero one version uh it reflects the update to the format of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "vtn option while the generalization of the semantics may need some further discussion in the working group okay next slide please here we show the updated beta option format basically it consists of the option type option data lens and the flags field the result reserved field and between resource id field in the option type field the first two bits are set to zero so that it is uh ignored when it is not recognized in the packet forwarding and it is not uh should not be changed in the in the packet forwarding um the option data length is set to eight and it reflects the length of the data fields here we introduce a flux field and one flag is defined in this version it's called a strict match which means that when the packet has its f s flat set it must match with uh the vtn uh a resource id which is configured on the outgoing interface for target forwarding otherwise it package should be dropped and if the s flag is uh set to zero it means that when if there's no matching of the vtn resource id and outgoing interface the packet will be forwarded using the default set of resource on the interface uh the reserve field is live for the future extensions to this option and the video resource id is for octet identifier of the set of resources allocated to over here so with this format we kept the updating option with a fixed lens and also lift rooms for the future extensions okay next page please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "okay here are some other updates in the zero one version first we clarify that waiting option can be used for network slicing and could also be used for other application scenarios and in the context of network slicing the vta and nrp the network resource partition are similar concepts it also clarifies that the relationship with the 5g network slice identifier which is ias ssai basically in the five general slice scenarios there may be the mapping relationship between the ssar and the vtn uh we also update the forwarding behaviors which takes the s-flag the value of the s-flag into consideration there are also some editorial changes in this uh version okay next page please okay here are the next steps uh we would like to collect the further feedback from the working group and if there's interest we could continue to have the further discussion about the semantics generalization then we will update the document accordingly based on the comments and feedbacks thanks no specific hat again i keep repeating myself on this specific draft but having a fixed length option for just a single use case is a kind of a waste of the code space i would prefer very much to get a variable length color thing that could be applied to many many use cases yes that's for your comments i will notice your suggestion about a variable lens"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "well we also see that in the harbor hub processing draft it recommends or it the rule in that draft is that we should use as fixed lens options for hubba hub header so maybe we need to consider whether we need to align with the rules in that document but i agree we need to make it uh extensible that's why we introduce some new fields and maybe i'm not limited to the natural slicing use case that is uh for sure thank you joe joel halpern with erickson um i think that your intention in the wording was to meet some requirements that you and i have discussed and the working group has discussed in the past but the wording left me a little confused you sometimes talk about this field as a vtn id you sometimes talk about it as a vtn resource id i hope it's the resource id i.e it's an aggregate that can be that represents a resource allocation to meet some set of traffic which may be a collection of vtns or whatever at which point the other thing is then i think that means the same thing as the nrp the network resource partition that's discussed in teas and we should make clear the relationship and that's the really important part we should make it clear what we're representing whatever it is please yeah it says for a comment so yeah i agree that we have been discussed about the semantics of this uh id and i we have made it made it clear"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "that it is the resource id within resource id or we may call it an rpid for in the context of slicing um but you may also know that there's the suggestion about the generalization of this uh semantics of this option or the id so may we may we are open to some further comments about the generalization and maybe it is not reflected in this current version but still using the media resource id here but let me consider whether there's other suggestions to make it more generic in this semantics thanks okay i do not see anyone else in the queue so thank you yeah i guess we shall expect a updated draft based on the comments you received today and on the list right okay now we are moving to the individual drafts on the agenda slightly ahead of time great so we might have more time for discussion for them so i'm going to share the slides for i see pv6 extensions for i am discovering [Music] [Music] okay okay thank you so i mean your floor is yours okay uh hello everyone uh this is xiaomi from zte speaking this presentation is on icmp v6 echo request reply for enabled in-situ om capabilities this is the second time i presented nexus line"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "please this is the recap of this draft this chapter defines icmp v6 extensions to achieve iom capabilities discovery in ipv6 networks this chapter is a campaigning document of draft itf ibpm iom comp state this draft defines two new icmpb6 messages called iom echo request and iom echo reply for icmp v6 iom anchor reply six iom capabilities objects are defined there i am pre allocated tracing capabilities object iom incremental tracing capabilities object iom approval transit capabilities object i am edge to edge capability subject i am dx capabilities object and i am end of the main object next slide please this slide shows the status of the draft idf rbpm iom comp state this ippm document defines the general method of iom capabilities discovery allowing the i am encapsulating node to discover the enabled iom capabilities of each iom transit and encapsulating node along the transport path of irm data packet this draft has passed the working group last call in ibpm working group and is currently with transport ad the general method defined in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "that ibpm document can be applied in ipv6 mpls ssc and vr environments next slide please uh the zero zero version of this job too was presented at itaf112 uh some good discussions happened there here with just a few updates since then firstly one more example where two namespace ids are deployed was added secondly the encodings of iom echo replies examples were updated to align with the ippm document thirdly some editorial changes were made and the needs were fixed note that one more need to in figure six will be fixed the next revision of this chart next slide please next step and also ask the six-man working group to consider adoption of this job thank you okay comments questions suggestions this room is very quiet today in the in the chat eric um asked whether noted information queries could be used for this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:07",
    "text": "uh irrigating cisco know hat and thank you both for point printing the point i'm a little bit annoyed by using an echo request reply for such information there is an experimental though information note query and i would kind of prefer and find it more logical to define a new icmp code or type and never know which one it to be used for this rather than eco so they asked me to compare the icmp basics and know the information queries i uh is this your intention i would prefer to use something else than an echo request reply to convey this kind of information but in rbpm document we have defined that we need to use echo requested apply to convey the iom capabilities okay anyway let's continue over email maybe yeah yeah i think it's because your audio might not be working very well yeah so let's take it but yeah but i think yeah i i think i tend to agree with eric i think it's this definitely worth looking at because that's that's a structure that could be used for other kinds of queries including this one okay we can discuss it here by email further good thank you very good okay thank you so erica i'll delete you from the queue yeah finally i just wanted to make sure you don't have more questions okay so next one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "okay i'll share the next set of slides for you so ah it is um okay okay thank you again hello everyone for me again this presentation is on b6 upper layer checkpoint this is the zero zero version individual draft that's a small piece this is the problem statement of this chart in srv6 when the last seat is a compressed one the upper layer checks some computation rule defining rfc8200 doesn't apply anymore here we provide two examples when obviously 8200 doesn't apply the first example is the next cc the flavor of compressed seed multiple seeds may be carried in the ipv6 destination address at the same time second example is the replace sea seed flavor of compressed seed the last element of the rooting header may be not a 128-bit address as a 16-bit or 32-bit compressed seat next slide this slide demonstrates the proposed solution in this chart firstly it keeps rc 8200 as is secondly it inserts a 128-bit address of the final destination"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "into the last seat using a new srg flag to indicate the insertion thirdly the pseudo code on processing the new defined srtc flag is copied here please review the pseudo code after the meet thank you during the discussions on and off the main list that other proposed solutions were raised the first one is to standardize that the last proceed must be uncompressed and then keep rbc8200 as is the second one is to require that the originating mode when the last cd is compressed decompress it and put the resulting ipv6 designation address into the pseudo header for upper layer checksum computation and then update of c8200 accordingly next time next steps for this job to the authors ask for more review and comments and expect it to converge on one solution that's all thank you uh darren is in the queue yeah darren duke cisco systems uh the sr source knows the destination whether it's compressed or uncompressed doesn't matter by the time the packet reaches the destination node the destination address is in the destination address field and is used for upper header upper layer header check some calculation i don't think that is there's any need for this draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "it works as is uh you know uh this job to in this job to we have the problem statement now that's mainly because in rbc 8200 uh it's assumed that the last seat is a 180 uh bit ipv6 address so at the originating node we need to have that kind of last seat otherwise the checksum calculate calculation is not applied uh it's not aligned with rc 80 200. yeah i know i'll say i think that problem statement is wrong there and maybe if you can put your comments on the list yeah so we can painting discussion on the list on this yes thank you terry okay uh no more comments or questions so we then move to the next draft paulo are you in the room ah right we switch to somebody in presence and i'm presenting on behalf of my co-author edward which i guess is connected remotely so just to give you the background for this draft we developed some time in analysis on neighbor discovery protocols"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "and the role of nd to keep with to handle let's say the prefix robustness cases um we decide then to let's say now around the scope of that old draft and move to this one which is basically the role of neighbor discovery in multi-homing multi-prefix networks next slide please well there is no need to discuss what the multi-homie multi prefix network is a there is one example here in the picture you see basically um something that sometimes is used for small offices home offices i would say this is specifically useful for and say smaller medium enterprises you have for example two routers two c is connected to two different providers the reason for that is to let's say provide resilience or let's say support load balancing or whatever other applications that are useful for an enterprise the topology the architecture of the internal network may be quite complex so this is to say the main reason there is a lot of literature that has already described these cases so how to let's say deal with the different connectivity cases or the lack of connectivity because of faults you see some example there cytopology discussed in 7157 which is the i would say the original rfc to discuss multi-homing without net there is the 86 17 a 78 which is the full analysis on the requirements and solutions for the usage of multi-home multi-graphics networks especially for enterprises let's say that to grant connectivity there we have to solve a few issues i would say so we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "have to solve a few problems you see they are listed here choose the right source address choose the right next hope and then there is also a third problem which is not addressed by our draft but that is let's say how to provide cognitive to guide connectivity to steer the packets across a let's say complex topology using source addressing source routing again if you look at the available literature the cases for that are almost solved i would say there are problems still to be addressed but let's say most of the mechanisms have been addressed you see for example 80 28 and again 86.78 now for the open cases so we have focused our analysis on the role of neighbor discovery so once again uh 4861 4862 and the default address selection because the mechanism to decide the source address and the next hope is defined by 6724 so we have identified two scenarios and i'm sorry maybe the terms we have used are not probably uh so widely adopted but let's say first scenario is probably the most common we have called it equal prefixes so we have two routers we can decide which one to use depending on the specific application so basically if i want to to reach a destination on internet i can use for example router a or router b depending on the addressing plan or let's say on the requirements of my application [Music] basically the mechanisms are defined in 7624 rule 4 rule"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "sorry rule 5 or the optional 5.5 you can also apply the conditional appeals for deciding um how to if they select the source address and that they decide okay this is the next stop i want to let's say to use for connecting to the destination okay this is it but there is another scenario and probably we focused on the second one which is the one that we called we named non-equal prefixes uh why that for example because there is a special case a special requirement to steer the traffic for example to a dedicated site so typically simple wallet garden um other case well uh we want to steer the the packet to reach a certain destination through a certain gateway because of specific requirements for example the packet loss or latency provided by one of the upstream providers how to deal with that in the multi-homing multi-prefix case well based on our analysis the only solution available today is defined here so we have to apply routing information options and let's say some something that could change the default policy table for example through dhcp v6 which is defined by rfc 1778 to our knowledge this is not so widely adopted so that could create some cases so how to solve this issue and we can move to the next slide please okay we have identified one potential solution but there is probably one caveat so one one thing that we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "should pay attention to and i'm pretty sure that could also raise some concern or some criticism so for example the idea is that in the source address in the the in the in the process to decide which is the source address to be used by a host and which is the next op we need to let's say to select to reach a certain destination well we have to define that source address selection comes first um i think this uh could be also taken for granted but actually this is not the case so if you read across the available uh literature this is not always the case there are um points in indiff scattered across the different rfcs where you see that next op selection comes before source address selection clearly we are open as i said to comments and criticism to this point but if we let's say take this uh this path so we decided source address comes first and then we select the next stop then we have the possibility to open let's say many more cases or mechanisms to solve the connectivity aspect when we are in presence of specific cases as the world garden or as we said before the idea of choosing a specific path because of let's say application requirements next slide then we have also to take into consideration what happens when we have failures so when we lose connectivity for example in that case let's say to to give a solution which is applicable to the selection of the right source address so to drive the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "traffic through let's say the network to reach the world and garden and to cope with the loss of connectivity we are proposing our draft some modifications that we believe are not so let's say impactful on the existing rfcs that you see listed here so basically the idea is that clearly we have to to agree upon the fact that source address is selected first then we move to the selection of the next stop this is point number one then we can apply something which has been already described as i said in different rfcs that makes sense in dealing with this aspect connected to multi-homing multi-projects so clearly select a next hope um that has already announced this source let's say the prefix to which my source address belongs to um then dealing with the deprecation of the prefix information options according to the specific case so if we lose for example the source prefix accordingly we have to inform the internal network that something is happening touch also some other let's say rfcs according to the mechanism that we are going to define basically the idea is that for multi-homing multi prefix in ipv4 there is a solution which is typically based on private addressing and net and we'd like to also find a solution to the same issue when ibv6 is used so that we can move to the next slide please and they said so we are open to any comments uh feedback even criticism we are very happy to let's say to listen you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "um [Music] by the way the analysis open so this is version 0 so anyone interested could join and be also called or with us thank you any questions yes david david lampotter so um considering that link local addresses are essentially free and abundant um i don't see any need to change the source address selection order to select a source address before the next stop because anything that can be achieved by doing that can also be achieved by simply adding a new link local address on the router and choosing that as a next stop and then choosing the source address to match that so that seems to be a much simpler approach okay so as i said i don't expect that everybody agrees of course let's discuss it if you are interested we can have an exchange and see why we are proposing that sorry i'm keeping it simple but just for the sake of saving time for other questions uh eric klein uh no hats i mean i i absolutely agree if you have 8801 and you generate per per pbd link local addresses to announce them you don't have any problems here you do have a a implement implementation of 8801 is you know i don't want to say complex or non-trivial but there's a lot to consider there and some of those considerations are some of the things that i saw on the slides so if you wanted to write a document that was maybe more in the style of all of the ink that was spilt in the miff working group that might be helpful for people who want to do 8801 but i think 8801 plus uh per pvd like local addresses and like this is so it's it's done okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "fernando a couple of comments now one meta comment is that you know i see that this document and you know also the the previous um document that you had out there on on prefixes uh has a lot of overlap with uh you know work that this very same working group is carrying out with a working group document so um the work on you know the let's say um prefixes that become stale is work that has been going on for you know about two years a lot of it happened in basic shops there's a remaining bit in six months which is the document that i presented before so what i would expect is that the associated work with you know stale prefixes is you know done in that context otherwise it's like redoing stuff that the working group is already doing in an individual submission uh so that's that's one of my comments uh the other comment that i have you know i i went through the document yesterday and i see that this document is um i don't know if it's mixing things that are like you know a topic on their own or that is trying to do too much into the same document for example i read parts where there are discussion about the properties of ipv6 addresses like you know what are ula is useful for that's a topic on its own okay uh more than you know a couple of paragraphs as part of of this document there are other areas where you know the document uh you know tries to analyze scenarios for which there are operational workarounds that's probably more for a document for basic shops that for six months i would expect uh same for you know analyzing gaps where there are scenarios that you want to support but there's you know nothing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "there to support them probably what you'd expect there is a b you know if anything a basic subs you know document that analyzes the cases that you want to you know to address analyze the gaps and then do the standards uh work and then um you know that might require a you know a reread on my side but you know i i got the impression that uh more than uh trying to you know tackle the you know the problem in um you know in a in a generic way there's a lot of analysis of um you know super specific scenarios uh again i might need to read the document but i got the impression that uh there's a lot of energy being put on specific you know cases uh as opposed to you know trying to see the broader you know picture and figure what's what's missing here okay thank you but let's say that as i said this is version so could i try to answer this because uh for overlap um i don't agree because for overlap we have really deleted everything which was really overlapping the previous draft yeah previous draft force it was a big overlap your idea but this one we have deleted everything which overlapped they believe this one is just about multi-home multi graphics which is specific topic for the reason overlap i would not agree for mixing things maybe yes maybe we need to think more about uh your comment that it's mixing things it's very complex yeah probably probably you're right thanks for your comment we'll think about it and especially with your comment about ula that maybe your late discussion could be deleted from here we'll think about it maybe maybe maybe really your discussion could be deleted from this therefore thanks for feedback we think we'll think about it thank you and for eric for eric for eric"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "uh i still believe that rfc 8801 uh is not enough uh because if we will choose not properly initially next cop then it would be too late to apply 8800 we will take it to offline i will prepare a long more or less long message to the alias and i will try to to explain why 8801 is useful only after the source address is chosen uh genuine cover no hats uh i'd like i'd like to second comment eric made about pvd because actually itf has been trying to solve this whole problem for a while i remember we have a lot of discussions i remember atf 2016 and berlin when i saw this discussion started right and even then it was like uh dvd seemed to be like a proper way of doing this so maybe if you think for some reason mpvd doesn't solve your problem the document needs to have better problem statement explaining why exactly mpvd does not do because i honestly i rather and i'm still confused why you cannot use mpvd and how basically switching the order of changing address selection would help you in this particular case right uh so yeah pvd is good enough after the proper source address is chosen after this pvd is good enough no no problem it's compatible to pvd but pvd itself is not enough initially we should properly choose source address okay we will try to explain it in different way and maybe longer and okay we'll think how to explain it properly why pdg is not enough yeah so uh edward yeah suggest maybe just have a section in the beginning saying this is what's going to happen with mpvd right and this is why it's bad and this is a problem with causing and how we need a new solution which we do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:03",
    "text": "what we'd like to achieve right because it looks like i'm not the only one confused so probably yeah we need to clarify and as we said already on previous previous slide pvd is compatible if we will properly choose source address first then pvd's compatible previous previous slide among a list of algorithms algorithm which is possible to use a previous slide pvd is applicable it's not a problem to use pvd but initially we should choose properly source address okay we will try to explain it better yeah thank you thank you okay uh [Music] okay cj light a door this floor is yours okay this particular slide deck is a small one um go next slide please uh of course we know we discussed many times already on the alias that there is a security problem that any anybody could impersonate any other node on the link because anybody could claim that particular mach ip relationship is his his mark and in such a way could poison the cash for other note especially for router is dangerous in d trust model has a general discussion how to do this uh in my particular draft i have referenced here we i have a more detailed really detailed discussion how to really poison the cache for other node but okay it doesn't matter because of course everybody understand that if there is no encryption then it's possible to impersonate other node okay it's a problem initially it was uh believed that ap sec will help help but then it has been understood okay some for some reasons as a challenge not suitable okay fine then uh sand and cga has been prepared and it's it's a good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "strong encryption no problem but okay nobody accept it again uh and uh i have an opinion that ipsec and cga sent has not been accepted because it's a key management challenge it's public key infrastructure management key management is a big challenge which is of course if you have it it's it's excellent but if you don't have it then it's not applicable and especially one comment about cj initial cga that initial cj was not as a separate solution it was not possible to use it as a separate solution it was a part of send it was dependent on send and uh just one reminder that initially cj and send together uh they they connect public key to ip address okay okay interface identifier but it's ap address uh it was connection within public key it was not it was not connection like in uh ng protocol between mac address and ap address uh what is possible to do it's possible to to use the same algorithm with the same mechanism which has been used in cga but uh it's possible to connect mac to ip the primary function of nd protocol mac ap connection and if we will connect mac to ap by this simple cga even a little bit simplified because in this particular document cga is a little bit simple simplified for that reason it's called cj light but it's in principle it's it's the same cga it's the same algorithm which is used in bitcoin in blockchain and in cga it's it's again the same and then uh the security of ap would be equal to security of mac address and mac address security is good for some particular technology it's good for dot one uh dot one x it is good for wi-fi because we have encryption and if mac is protected by by some layer two technology then ap would be the same protected because ap would be connected by effectively in very secure way connected to mac to mac address next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "how to do it is exactly the same like it was for very similar very similar not exactly the same but very similar like it was for cga initially we prepared some block of information with uh some some information like network name or time unknowns or whatever which is needed primarily to you know for temporary addresses for uh different stable addresses for different uh interfaces it's uh is to to to to be compatible to all other things which we have for address and then we do hash connect prefix and mark do hash again and after double of hash we are trying to find uh the hash which will will have some number of leading zeros uh the draft itself has a discussion how many leading zeros is possible and how many many leading zeros is more or less good security and how and it's it's a discussion is more accurate in the draft how to properly choose number of leading zeros but uh if it's not enough then we do mining we we change not so change something in the initial information and loop again and do it again and again and it's mining but if you would like to s simple security uh not very strong security that mining could be very fast it's even possible for iot devices it's it's explained in the draft that it's possible even for such low compu computing power like iot devices if you would like something strong which would be really protected okay you could do mining long or you could use uh strong machine even not the node itself but you could use some some offline computation and then you will get some number of leading zeros uh the trailing uh beats could be used for interface identifier uh you could ask question eric yeah erin cisco and in this case knowledge again we are linking again the interface id to the mac address are we back to eu64"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "problem and lack of privacy no no no no because look on this particular page it's good that you asked right now because look on the upper side of the slide you see the block which has inside collision count net name time nons other information if you will put here and definitely you will put here enough information then you will get different of course uh um interface identifier for your different uh logical interface for your difficult physical interface no no we will not break anything i have analyzed carefully temporary addresses stable addresses which are different uh for different logical interfaces or different network names are still possible it's not a problem because it's uh initially you will you you will choose different information for generation of such addresses no problem okay thank you eduard another questions now maybe you're aware that there is a modernist working group then i put my ada on again which is about randomized and changing mac address so typically we will change the mac address and as far as i know windows 10 is tend to change the mac address quite often during a day even okay but it would be like temporary addresses if you will choose a low level of securities small number of leading zeros then generation of new new ip address new interface identifier would be easy and would be fast but yeah it would be additional burden uh uh because it's additional mining but uh it depends uh how difficult um you will choose security level how how difficult how many number of leading zeros you will choose if you will choose a small number of leading zeros okay it's not a problem okay but it's worth mentioning in the draft most probably yeah it's a good comment it's a good comment here thank you go next slide please for legal host it would be extremely"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "easy to check that some particular marked ip relationship is legal because just one hash just one hash based on public information and any other host will check that okay this combination is legal go next if bad guy will try to break this the bad guy what that guy needs the bad guy needs uh the same interface identifier but for different mac address it means he will change something in the source initial information then what he need to do he need to do mining but in his case mining would be much much more difficult because in addition to some number of leading zeros he will need additionally 60 trailing particular bits 60 bits at the end should be exactly a particular uh interface identifier it means that 2 powered by 60 more hashes it's extremely strong additional protection it's again analyzed in the draft how strong it is and how it's comparable to bitcoin for example how fast whole bitcoin network could crash this for example how much time will be needed okay go next uh uh there is a little bit information which could be should be distributed public information uh one is uh hash type and for hash type i'm trying to use already defined option uh 39 uh not to invent something new of course it's possible to invent something new if you believe it's it's it's useful but uh my initial assumption not to invent something new uh and additionally i need digestive id information which i i i am proposing to as a new option is a new one additional option go next i have analyzed more or less all other extensions for nd which we have like optimistic nd like uh grant like indie proxy like all type of addresses and looks like it's compatible to everything except a few restrictions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "which is put on this particular slide the one restriction because everybody is equal in this ecosystem uh nobody could be restricted who is router who is not router everybody is equal and for that reason uh uh it does not preclude anybody to claim that he is router therefore a regard or a is is still needed it's it's not it's not a protection against route or fake it's okay one a comment another comment of course is not protection again against dosto dudos because anybody could generate many uh legal legal appealed ap and addresses and then spam everybody okay it's ddos is not protected of course and there is one real case which is really uh could happen if a particular legal host is disconnected his mark and his ap is not available then uh anybody else could try to use his mac and his ap address uh and if um the low level infrastructure level two infrastructure will accept his mac address without authentication or with maybe breach some some problem with uh of authentication exists then because he will claim the mark and mark is not available he will claim ap address because he ip address is connected just connected to mac and if anybody it's low probability because uh server probably is always available but for client uh we don't so much care that's it okay fernando yeah question um the goal of this proposal is to prevent ip address impersonation or or what is specifically yes yes because now the guy who the the pair the pair marked to ip address this pair could not be claimed by anybody else nobody else is capable to say okay this particular ap address is mine i have different mac mac to ip will be street"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:02",
    "text": "it would not possible to break this particular connection but then you mentioned that for example this will obviously not you know uh uh so so what are the attacks that you have in mind because you are saying that you know this will not protect against you know uh for example a node claiming raw generation to slide two slide two yeah two on the slide two on the left side we have a discussion section 4.1 from antitrust model and in my draft i have more detailed discussion how to particular uh poison the cache for any other node and this is against this this is against poisoning of the cache of other node because on the other node we could claim uh that this particular ip address is connected to different mark and then would be middle men in the middle attack yeah so in general you know the idea of tying identifiers um you know from different layers uh together has generally proved to bring problems you know unless you really need that so it's entangled things that they don't really need to be entangled if you want to you know in a way you know when we moved away from eui 64 it had to do with that like two identifiers from different layers tied together that they shouldn't that aside you know if in the same way you need are a guard anyway why would you uh for example bother implementing this as opposed to using nd inspection for example part of first hop security um ndx inspection like savvy for example is good yeah but but it's supported just by a couple of switches i mean just one vendor couple of switches it's it has a really low acceptance by the market yeah but you need a regard anyway"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "because you know in that case i i could you know as an article spoofer router so if you don't have a guard i can attack you anyway so no no a regard is very simple uh it's uh it's not so complex like uh you'll do of course if you will do nd snooping in this looping full and disturbing like saudi uh of course uh then you could trace who is who is connected to which particular port and uh you could you could keep security uh but arrayguard is much simpler i mean uh regard you typically point one point and say okay on this one port check that the icmp does not have array and that's it uh it's it's very simple every switch supported but not every switch support in this snooping and for that reason this particular indeed rust model section 4.1 is still not protected okay the big principal difference here is only one initially cga and send where connecting public key to uh ip address here is connection marked to ap address and for that reason there is no need for public key infrastructure there is no need for key management and for that reason acceptance probability by the by the market is much higher that's it for my side okay uh actually uh i put myself in the queue uh jalenkova now heads i'm not actually exactly clear why you're saying it's only for disconnected node an attack could happen what would prevent an attacker to claim mac address and ipv6 address while mold is still connected because if it's partially true but okay if if particular layer two infrastructure has two nodes which claim the same mac"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "address would be flapping and in this flapping of course you could catch some some packets in this particular flapping but it's a layer two problem if you have in some particular layer to the main domain uh it's it's not normal situation anyway for layer two if two addresses connected to one layer to infrastructure for that reason uh it's its problem anyway so basically you're saying you would be you would rely on monitoring and alerting in this case to the techno attack but it's not actually prevented right um you could say this way yeah but maybe not just this way because um additionally it's flapping i mean interface mac address and interface would be up and down up and down because uh mac address would be duplicated duplicate mac address will not permit the host to operate anyway the host probably uh will call support and ask for support because he could not work well i guess in many cases scenario is stolen addresses also can be detected by monitoring and complaints yeah but i guess uh we are talking about preventing the attack instead of like reaction to it so actually my second question is if your hosts are kind of in untrusted domain and you don't trust them wouldn't it be better just perform where to isolation and solve this problem forever but if your whole succession is the same broadcast they're kind of in the same trust zone from security perspective so i'm not sure how big the problem was actually in like real life in majority of cases in the real life wi-fi for example or azernet switching infrastructure data center enterprise whatever we typically don't have isolation on at layer 2 typically 1v1 for example everybody could connect to everybody um i'm not sure how many probably very"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "small number of uh cases we have in the world that people really implement something like private vlan for example or filtering on on wi-fi yeah it's possible it's possible to restrict that only um wi-fi station could uh go only to uplink it's not possible to uh to send pocket from one wi-fi station to another wi-fi station it's possible it's possible to do filtering but typically it is not done typically uh especially in data center but in enterprise networks typically it's possible inside one view and everybody connect everybody okay uh thank you so any other comments from the room or from remote participants okay so i guess we shall continue that discussion on the list and thank you edward you okay the next presentation is expert of segment writing information in 86. okay let me get the slides perfect good afternoon everybody thomascraft swisscom on behalf of the outdoors this is about enabling insight in srvs6 forwarding plane by adding segment routing dimensions in ipfix thomas may i ask you to be close to the mic or just hold it because i suspect people remote might when you turn around people might hear you okay thanks a lot next slide please so uh speaking as a network operator and looking back from a migration between mpls and then pssr we we know that data plane visibility is very important during migration and currently it's missing in srv6 and we're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "trying to address that in this document we want to see as a network operator how much traffic and if traffic is being forwarded or dropped towards a segment identifier we understood that currently srv6 is already being deployed by network operators and also the first ones started to do migrations from mpls to srv6 the main data is coming from the segment routing header which is defined in section 2 of rfc 8754. slide please so the elements coming from the sra chatter are for instance the segments left field the the tag field and the flex field while other informations for instance the srh active segment ipv6 type is basically describing from which routing protocol the active segment is coming from while the srh segment locate the length and the srh segment endpoint behavior also are information coming from the the control plane basically describing uh the additionally that the segment routing the srv6 dimensions next slide please there are different ways how to expose the the segment lists one is by doing the decomposition on the the network node with the srh segment ipv6 basic list and sfh segment ipv6 while the other possibility is to maintain uh the the the seat list completely and expose it in one element in the srh segment ipv6 list section while the last possibility is actually to expose the entire sfh header in the srh section ipv6 depending uh which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "solution is being chosen there are different implications especially in terms of uh scalability which are described in the operational consideration section next slide please uh this draft was already being presented at itf 113 to spring and ops awg we received various feedbacks uh we all addressed already all open issues and also double checked the ir consideration section with ipfix doctors we added a request also uh in the operational consideration section uh a section how to decompose uh the segment list uh when compressed cities uh is being used and we added therefore the sh segment locator length and the srh segment endpoint behavior in the draft we aligned the naming uh for of the ipfix entities uh from the rfc 1712 updated the srh flex ipv6 registry and com have now in the addendum section examples for all the different data template option tablets and data records next slide please so the next step is we have currently two major vendors which uh validate the technical feasibility and working on implementations insert university in lyon is working on earning open source code in vpp we will be able to show that at idf 115 hackathon we others believe that the document should progress quickly through itf to avoid private enterprise code points being used in srv6 deployments and therefore requested at itf 113 at oops awg adoption looking forward for comments feedback"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:07",
    "text": "anyone oh eric you like to say something i guess i just wanted to ask to be clear you're not proposing any changes to 85 87 54. correct there are no changes we are proposing changes to action to rfc 1711 which is ipv6 okay so i see no comments here and i guess just for information right so no action requested from this group except for i guess review comments will be appreciated if you are interested okay thank you very much okay and apology identifiers in extension header [Music] hello can you hear me yes we can hear you i'm just i'm starting sharing your slides okay uh this document is about carry corporate to identify in ibv6 extension header next page please amity and flash echo can generate multiplayer loading plays currently to distinguish different looting planes empty and flare goals are mainly identified using different iph in that packet we need to plan different ipad chassis for each mt and flash lego"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "which increases the network development complexity the igp protocol needs to advise more ips gses which also brings capability problems the application of network slicing also increases the number of empty and fresh eggs in the network which increases the impact on the network because an interface may belong to multi-play enmity of less lego this problem cannot be slowed slowed by associate associating separate interfaces with different mt and threshers this document introduced introduces a general approach to oral prolonged different empty of life cycles to share ips chassis a new hobart hub option of ibv6 extensions header is defined to carry certain identifier which is used to identify the following table instance grade created for mt of las ego next page please this is example for publish identify in this scenario links which different colors belong to different flash angles green for flight center 128 blue 4 flags of 129 led for flash of 130 all flash circles share the same node ipfcs for each flash angle each node calculations at an spf2 independently and generates an independent leave of feed let's pay please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:04",
    "text": "this document introduced a new hobbyhop option which carries top publish identify each top each topic identifies mapping to a folding table top bridge identifier is inca in case in case field on the head header node the mid node makes the folding table selection based on the forward based on the topic in capsule this look then look up the folding table and send the package next page please any comments are welcome thank you peter you're first in the queue i guess speed option cisco so when we designed the flexalgo technology as such one of the strong requirements was not to require any specific data in the packet we tied the flex algo with the forwarding construct in a packet which is either srm pls label or an ip address itself which is the srv6 case or ipl go case so what you are trying to do here goes completely opposite what we are trying to do with the flex algo and a bit of a history here an mtr has been tried and failed miserably because of the need to classify the packet on every hop this is exactly what you are doing i'm not sure this is a good idea thank you everything cisco no specific hat i simply repeat what i said for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:01",
    "text": "previous draft with the vtn id i don't mind don't discuss the flex i go thing right because i'm not an expert there but having a way to mark or color the packet is interesting for sure but make it generic not one per protocol thank you all right suresh krishnan so just a question so is this the host putting in the information for the routers to look up on what routing table yeah the question was who's putting in this empty info who's like putting in the hubba hub option in there is it the host that is initiating the packet uh uh yeah sorry thanks for your question in fact this is the ingress router of this the uh of this the uh i'm charles uh uh of the tunnel i mean the ingress router encapsulated the uh topology information in the forwarding data plane not the host okay so i think like there's something that you probably need to do a little bit more like the security stuff in here the properties of this is like very scary that you determine like you know how the router looks it up so probably you need to spend a little bit more time on the security properties of this um before it goes forward but i do uh if the people like you know peter was here uh if this is something that's not signed off by the eventual consumer of this we need to discuss that first thank you okay okay jen being your next in the queue okay uh to me from huawei i would like to add some this to the comments"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "regarding the erica and peter's the comments the first one i mean the peter's the opinion in fact this is explained in the in the slides because according to the current uh design of the flesh echo it needed to need a more ip address for the different topology so that it will consume more ip addresses so here we introduce a new method can share this the ip address and also take the advantage of the ipv6 to encapsulate the support id to identify so this is just the solutions uh concept a second one regarding the eric's concept i uh comment i i agree with this one in fact in the network in the teas working group we propose uh one draft generalized ietf network slicing we are discussing about if the waiting resource id is can be generalized to represent the topology or not yeah we will ask this the comment okay that's all joel halpern erickson i'm i'm sorry but this doesn't add up the fundamental problem you stated was well we need a different ip address for each topology the endnote is participating in from where i sit that's a benefit not a drawback this is ipv6 we're not short of endnote ids bob laughs this is it works whereas you want to introduce a new extension header that we have to take into account in forwarding at every hop this is a very difficult problem"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:01",
    "text": "solution to a non-problem please don't i'm sorry maybe i missed something but if remember correctly an option either can an extension here cannot be added by a router can be modified by router but not added i don't know maybe i missed the refugee okay to me because you know in the router because the packet will encapsulate the tunnel header we encapsulate the tunnel header we can add this the information uh with the with the topology uh add the party information with the new tunnel header i think that's that's a different from the host process i will try to read your rfc and see if i see any anything that i missed thank you okay uh actually i allowed myself to the queue no heads but i actually agree with eric that we kind of see a lot of different drafts probably which suggesting different kinds of identifications related to network slicing apn and so on and i'm not an expert in the area but i think it would be a good idea to consider yeah having one thing which can be reused instead of standardizing five million different options it's not like commenting to you but i think people like maybe we either here or in some other working group need to consider how to solve this problem once and for all and i see eric is looking to the microphone uh yeah i was just going to say i sent"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "email to the responsibility for tease uh about uh the status of the network slice document there it would be uh in hopes that we could eventually get a conversation um about network resource partition identifiers and all these other sort of identifiers it it's not clear how many of these we actually need and uh but we haven't uh we haven't closed on that conversation yet but if uh six managers could always send a liaison statement to the tease chairs and ask about those kind of things cool thank you eric okay we have four minutes so i'm [Music] gentlemen do you reckon you can give us overview of generalized channels in four minutes yeah yes i'm okay very quickly sharing the slide then okay so this is jamin from huawei on my presentation user generalize the ipv6 tunnel okay next page okay so here we propose this the challenge because we know now we have the many types of the ip tunnels such like the gre tunnels vxlan tunnels and also have many variants of these ipa tunnels all these tunnels have this the format with ipsos address and ip designation address so at the same time we now we also have many new features even this has been uh proposed by gene uh in the previous comments we know now we have this the network slicing and we have this epm we have this the alternate marking we had the iom all these new features we need the new encapsulation and this the new calculation has been defined and being"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:00",
    "text": "defined for the ipv6 encapsulation so now we have this is the challenge to how we define these the encapsulations for these ip tunnels so this has the challenges okay next page okay so here propose is a challenger so that's the first one if we define this the new features encapsulations for all these ip tunnels we have the huge standardization standardization work and the second one is difficult to keep the consistency between the ipv4 and the ipv6 because the user has been recommended the new work is to be done based on the ipv4 ipv6 third one i mean there's some this is the function redundant because for example ip if we use the ipv6 for the ipvc for this ip tunnel so that's the ipv6 flow label can be used for ecmp but you'll notice in history the ipa tunnels some ip tunnels take use the ip udp port number for the ecmp so there's the repeat repeated functionality in the sim uh there is a tunnel header so there's a the last one so that's a weaker difficulty to extend based on the existing format because some ip tunnel has their own header for example vxlr and gre but we also have some these tunnels such as the ipuip they also know their own header so that is difficult to has unified there is the extension if they need to support the new features so we next page uh sorry we have just one minute so can you just quickly summarize oh yes so here we just we have proposed this generalized the ipv6 tunnel header"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:02",
    "text": "so we think that for all these ip tunnels we you have generalized the ipvc ipv6 tunnel header that means the ipv6 header and all these the new features and all the existing ip tunnels functionality can be encapsulated in the ipv6 extension header so means there's no need necessary to defend the new features for all these ip tunnels that's the concept okay that's all okay thank you i don't think you have any time for this question but i guess the draft is in the writing working group as well right so okay thank you very much everyone see ya in london please read the drafts please comment on them okay yes thank you all very much okay okay thank you thank you bob okay bye thank you um"
  }
]
