[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:34",
    "text": "okay we\u0027re gonna get them started all right we\u0027re ready to go just before we get going we\u0027re looking for a jabber scribe if someone would be so kind as to do that look for some volunteers around the room you\u0027ll need this to get going you go we\u0027ll take care of the notes so that\u0027s you want to freak out about that but we\u0027re still looking for someone who can help us with jabber one once nobody wants to do any jabbering oh all right we\u0027ll figure it out I\u0027m gonna do it all right I\u0027ll do it you guys have to talk a lot okay so let\u0027s get going thank you very much for coming to ITF in five the LSP our working group co-chairs will under the weather so I\u0027m gonna try to do most of the talking yep and put up with me please note the note well applies to the meeting you haven\u0027t read it these read it\u0027s here is our agenda we\u0027ll take a moment to have a quick look at that if anyone feels it\u0027s out of order or you want to make a comment now it\u0027s time to do so I have a mic but if not we will do a some administrator to get things going the chair side there\u0027ll be a call to action quick presentation from Ignis Rab then there will be a few presentations on some in-flight working group documents or yet to be working group documents and then we\u0027ll have some closing comments and next steps all right no one at the mic will keep going so we had a number of key milestones that we had to work through over the last little while as of March 2019 earlier this year with the applicability statement of LSB our DC\u0027s adopted it was the LSP distribution using B to transport that was adopted we had the LSP our with standard Dykstra path selection adopted those key milestones were were met who were making good progress on that we had wanted to get the gang specification for LSB are going there\u0027s still some work to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:34",
    "text": "be done there and that will be addressed from some of the comments from Agnes on to sort out well how we move on from there and then we\u0027ll have a discussion around the l3 BL which was previously known as Ellis OE adopted as a work group ID now a bit of a late adoption from from a working group status perspective like I mentioned a moment ago we seem to be doing doing reasonably well from a progress perspective we had some aggressive timelines from the outset we had want to make rapid progress given the state of things there is an LS we Python 3 demo available so effectively an application people can play with and utilize the link it\u0027s there over in a github free to use and to play they said an LS BR has made good progress as a main spec as well and we\u0027ll get an update on that within this working with some documents that appear to be ready for work last call was the applicability statement document and the BGP SDF document we had talked about this back in March what we\u0027ll do is we\u0027ll be a little more aggressive after this meeting to make sure we get the reviews in and get the number of reviewers identified and follow up with those reviewers so we can get we can get kind of a good long pass of those documents make sure they\u0027re a literate state where we can actually move them forward so that you should expect that on the list after this meeting and that draws close our introductory slide set so there\u0027s no other comments we are going to get ready then for I believe it\u0027s agnostic next this will be he\u0027ll talk to us about Yang and his fields oh yeah sorry my bad it\u0027s from the office area I\u0027m sorry "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "Oh a selenium Cisco Systems now given that this BG pls we\u0027re using a very small subset of it for SPF you know given the whole universe of it so how much we put into the initial that\u0027s a question you know doing it all doing doing both bgp LS SPF family and the regular standard bgp LS would address family would be good but you know they\u0027re gonna just definitely share some TVs and things but the amount of amount of work is a lot different I\u0027m just making that point so that\u0027s gonna have to be a decision okay I\u0027m not disagreeing with that but then again this is for you as a working group who owns LS VR to decide what needs to get configured in order to get that use and not only configured basically what state in figures pose and so on that would indicate we do the we do enough to configure it and from an operational standpoint we\u0027d set up a framework and do what we need for LS be our first exactly and that\u0027s that\u0027s a whole point that the description of the configuration logic should be the the focus not the encode but basically the logic how you use that so Kate Patel arcus I was simply going to ask you to clarify a little more but before I do that let me give you a status I I\u0027m gonna present the status on LS fear we have device based model very well hashed out mind you that as a she said the encoding in LS we are follows the formats of LS address family however there isn\u0027t a model defined for Ellis address family in idea itself the base bgp model doesn\u0027t cover it and it\u0027s not intended to and as part of doing this work we are also going to come out with a yang model or idea for LS ettus family as well because it applies here and we have done the work here right so I\u0027m going to talk a little bit more in my presentation but I thought I just let you know the device model is ready okay didn\u0027t allow liquor Cisco so I completely agree with Jo and at least the configuration model will be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:11:02",
    "text": "different but the operational model or the view I think we can share and leverage that for the LS address family in general for bt pls so that\u0027s understandable but again from my view I would say that address family is probably a small fragment in the whole scheme of things yes that is needed but that\u0027s not necessary say the large portion of a problem space here pretty large I think you\u0027re referring to the Circe system model or a schema services based model which only is the box base schema or or the device model itself is that what you are referring to in this case I don\u0027t particularly distinguish the two the element model on a service model is what needs to be covered how do you cover well this is for you to decide well that\u0027s that\u0027s basically what they have from my site any other comments and your questions not well thank you yeah sorry we\u0027re have someone work on the mic so we\u0027re gonna keep passing some back and forth let\u0027s say testing okay so the next item in our agenda is at the l3 DL update so Bren was on a limit so Rob is hot standby to review this draft with us good morning you will have noticed that I am NOT Randy Bush in spite of the fact that I have magenta Comic Sans so sorry okay so remember the basic point of the entire l3 dr and i\u0027m probably gonna say LSO we half a dozen times gun still getting used to the name change but remember the goal this is we\u0027re trying to discover the topology and liveness you know a lot of this is about just detecting when cables are miss plugged and the topology isn\u0027t what we expected that kind of thing and this is from bgp SPF right that\u0027s the point of all this mechanism and we\u0027re trying to keep it as simple as we possibly can there\u0027s some entertaining discussions within the author\u0027s team about how simple that is Randy and I tend to be if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "it\u0027s more complicated than a spoon it\u0027s too complicated Kira likes a little bit more than that but we\u0027re having fun so again reminder of how the stack looks okay you\u0027ve got Ethernet frames which the PD use for this protocol and we\u0027re doing that link checks with the a fuse and Saffy\u0027s and then we\u0027re feeding stuff up to bgp SPF okay this isn\u0027t a routing protocol we\u0027re just trying to discover the layer 3 addresses on a point-to-point link in most cases the art these are in fact point-to-point links ok so what\u0027s new since the last draft sorry not since last Drive since the last meeting what\u0027s new in the draft ok so we have this little transport protocol that\u0027s built in here it\u0027s very very small and it can handle to the 32 octet PDUs we tried to make it clear which bit is which so there\u0027s the transport layer and there\u0027s the PDUs layered on top of that and we try to have a clear delineation between that the exact number here to 224th datagrams that was last week I think it\u0027s 2 to the 15th datagrams now we keep fiddling without trying to get the numbers right but the problem is you want to have enough to be able to carry the largest PDU that makes sense in this protocol but you also don\u0027t want really ridiculously large numbers of frames flying around with a relatively lightweight transport protocol so it\u0027s a trade-off thing not so the upper frame here is showing you what the transport headers look like and it\u0027s pretty straightforward is just version number there\u0027s a sequence number so that we can tell whether or not we\u0027re doing the same print the same PD we\u0027re doing last time or not let\u0027s actually change the Elbit is still the same there\u0027s the Datagram number the Datagram length there\u0027s a checksum because you don\u0027t send stuff around raw Ethernet frames without a checksum if you want to survive and there\u0027s the payload and that\u0027s all there is to it so you put together a bunch of these data grams you do a PD you and at that point you\u0027ve got a PD you type and a payload lengths and signature stuff which we\u0027ll talk about in a bit and you\u0027ve got some payload not much to it we\u0027re not running TCP ok there\u0027s no IP at one we\u0027re doing this so that that\u0027s not going to work in any case we want something lightweight Randy likes to think of this as TCP like I don\u0027t think it\u0027s that complicated I used to maintain a TCP implementation this is orders of magnitude less complicated this is more like TFTP but it works okay it\u0027s simple it gets the data through and we have a little bit of mechanism for being able to deal with retransmissions and out of order delivery and that sort of thing and back off because we\u0027re trying to learn from the mistakes of the 1990s and not just flood everything all the time it\u0027s pretty simple and I think it\u0027s stable at this point we might end between a little "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:17:02",
    "text": "bit more depending on discussions about you know large numbers of frames flying around and having to retransmit all of them if you lose something but it\u0027s been pretty stable for months now the stuff above that is a stateful session per peer okay so you\u0027ve got a relationship between two peers as a session pretty straightforward we do have a way of great of gracefully restarting now this is one of the carrier enhancements it\u0027s mostly a good thing it adds complexity still under discussion but Kara likes to think of this as being very very much like BGP I\u0027m an old DNS guy to me the mechanism looks a lot like DNS but it\u0027s basically the same kind of mechanism in either case you\u0027ve got a serial number okay so you send stuff around and what serial number was that all right and then if you have to restart the open message now has a serial number what serial number was that I hacked and you can have a lot of complicated discussions about exactly how to implement this but the basic mechanism is trivial it\u0027s just where was I how do I get to where I need to be send be the difference okay we do have mechanisms we had to add an explicit act mechanism because we discovered there a couple of places we\u0027re detecting duplicates was a little tricky so there\u0027s actually an explicit back mechanism for everything now and we do didn\u0027t retransmit if stuff doesn\u0027t assume it\u0027s evolving into a small transport protocol as we said um hello frames and keepalive frames sorry PDUs are still different because they have somewhat different requirements there\u0027s some discussion about whether or not we really need the hello and keep alive but to be different things if we were just beaconing the hellos all the time that would be an indication that the end point is still alive so why do you need to keep alive but the heath lives are intended to be Malta unicast between two piers and yes I\u0027m still here yes I\u0027m still here yes I\u0027m still here as opposed to hello which is the hi I just came up anybody want to talk to me in the case of a point-to-point link which is the usual case you only need to do the hellos when you\u0027re starting up once you\u0027ve got the pier you know who the address is at the other end the the the link layer dress is at the other end you don\u0027t really need to keep beaconing the lows in a multi drop thing we\u0027ve got multi access your conventional Ethernet and it\u0027s not just point-to-point you might need to keep beaconing them so that new people joining get the message so they\u0027re just these two PT is that they look a lot alike but they have somewhat different behavior so at least for the moment they\u0027re still separate we\u0027ll revisit whether or not they need to be merged at some point oh sorry that got to this a little early so yeah we don\u0027t need to repeat the hello as if it\u0027s just a point-to-point link because once you know the other endpoint you\u0027re not learning anything new okay some new stuff encapsulation flags we had but we didn\u0027t have I don\u0027t think the announced withdrawal bitch and I don\u0027t think we had the over-under bit either care the over-under bit is new since last so this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "is an overlay underly thing if you\u0027ve got a complex topology and you\u0027ve got it as a backbone within your rack and you\u0027ve got you know land that you\u0027re using just for communication between the Tor and the servers within the rack but you also want to be able to take things that are in side the rack and have them have public addresses outside the rack so you\u0027ve got this overlay underlay mechanism the underlay is the conversation within the rack the overlays the stuff you\u0027re transporting out so we just have a bit to indicate which kind of address you\u0027re talking about for any particular encapsulation because it makes it easier to sort out which things need to propagate where we had an explicit ACK and error message we looked at doing it separately and the code was 98% the same code so we just Vale with it so an ACK is an error message with an error code of no error just not much simpler okay we have this vendor extension mixin that was actually in I think by the time we\u0027re in Prague it uses enterprise numbers all on nibs because it was an existing mechanism is used for extensions other things we\u0027ve actually got a use case for that already with somebody doing something in another working group it\u0027s pretty trivial ok logical link endpoint identifiers I looked at this and said what the hell is that Randy just says I just made it up um the problem is that I go back far enough that when I was doing device drivers Ethernet was called you know Dix Ethernet you know there wasn\u0027t a lot to it these days layer 2 was a complicated ecosystem with multiple layers of stuff and sometimes your MAC address isn\u0027t really your MAC address or your MAC address isn\u0027t really an endpoint identifier or there\u0027s you know a bunch of bonding stuff going on or god only knows what so in a simple Dix Ethernet world your endpoint would identify would just be your MAC address but sometimes the topology is more complicated than that at layer 2 and you need something that\u0027s your system identifier so it\u0027s a something abstract concept system identifier and which interface did you receive this on that\u0027s generally the endpoint identifier in terms of what you\u0027re writing in your code ok and there\u0027s a question do we need a mandatory to implement link layer and point identifiers that\u0027s still under discussion we don\u0027t know yet okay so we have two implementations there\u0027s my somewhat older one in Python 3 which hasn\u0027t been updated since we changed the name from lsle so it\u0027s still called Alyssa we there\u0027s a new one from one of our co-workers and golang we\u0027re plan I putting this stuff into our operating system and we\u0027re hoping maybe we\u0027ll be able able to do some kind of an interrupt thing in Singapore and send this stuff to last call still up in the air but that\u0027s the hope and as I mentioned we\u0027ve already got somebody using the extension mechanism so Niraj has this thing over in deaths the evpn mechanism ok we really want people to review the draft randy says this every "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:23:03",
    "text": "time it\u0027s still true please review the draft it would be nice if we could get review before having to send it to working group last colleges to wake people up I want to specifically acknowledge Paul Condon thank you for having repeatedly reviewed the thing for is very much appreciated but it would be nice of other people to please okay and that\u0027s it for the main protocol the other one is this is like sixty seconds okay so we added another PD you type for transporting around sort of the minimal upper layer protocol configuration information that\u0027s really it right there this one slide okay we\u0027re really hoping to keep that to the minimum amount of necessary configuration stuff for you know we don\u0027t want to turn this into all of BGP again just what\u0027s the minimum you need care can speak more to what actually needs to go in here than I can but that\u0027s pretty much it for the other one we don\u0027t want to be replacing BGP we don\u0027t want Beaton conflicting with BGP that\u0027s part of the reason for keeping it minimal the less you say the less likely these are contradicting something yes care capital R cos this is the minimum requirement needed to exchange BGP data so that you can establish automatic peering between two nodes okay kind of like BGP discovery fuel yeah pretty much okay okay so here\u0027s the here\u0027s the explanation of what we have currently expect to go in for BGP okay you\u0027ve got your ass and your before peering address prefix length BGP authentication data okay that\u0027s it for make breeze oh um I did not do any slides for the signing mechanism we\u0027ve been working on because that\u0027s really we the draft isn\u0027t published yet so there\u0027s no point asking you to read the draft but we\u0027ve managed to keep it very very simple so far just going to talk about it for one minute it\u0027s basically just signatures okay and there are three levels you can do with this you can have screw it I don\u0027t care about signatures at all in which case you leave the signature field empty you can have what the security world is called tofu trust on first use where it\u0027s like I send you a key and you say okay I never seen you before but fine whatever the rest of this session will be signed with this key okay fine whatever so all that that proves to you is that somebody hasn\u0027t jumped in and hijack the session sometimes that\u0027s all you need depends on your on your operation model the third level is very very lightweight PKI yes the word BKI is scary but we had help from a friend who said no you do not damn well need x.509 here so the PKI is basically just a signature the certificate literally consists of a signature by a certification Authority that\u0027s it all it\u0027s telling you is this il3 dll speaker is an authorized member of the group as opposed to say the janitors laptop that\u0027s all it\u0027s telling you if you care about that level of assurance the mechanism is there if you don\u0027t care about it you don\u0027t have to use it we\u0027ve got the draft mostly written it should be ready within a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "month or so at the most and certainly ready for people to review by the next meeting that\u0027s it questions on that authentication Paul Condon sorry yeah on that authentication how big is that signature at currently do you know it depends on the algorithm but it\u0027s not huge we\u0027re using the three algorithms we\u0027re talking about are all elliptic curve algorithm so this is not Russell how big is DSA I\u0027m forgetting you see DSA sorry so 32 bits and the other yeah but so you know it\u0027s noticeable but is not huge and the other ones we\u0027re looking at her on that same order of magnitude yeah okay um I had a great update on this draft there was a lot of changes and clarifications that then that the additions of the overlay underlay things brought a lot of questions up for me anyway so that\u0027s primarily for the I would say you know the Geneva clan style over they underlaid you don\u0027t consider a VLAN layer to as a overlay underlay right I think I think the VLANs are actually why you also modified the lle I you know created the need for an El Elyon because over a single Ethernet wire you may have multiple VLANs which results in multiple interfaces and that I think is that that accurate I don\u0027t know invited care to respond to that yeah that\u0027s correct here for Dolores and this is also assuming say for example a server has an overlay addresses in a manner that can be made accessible at the LIA where l3 DL can announce it out if that happens we did just a bit here that can differentiate saying this is an overlay versus an underlay address yeah so so effectively that allows you to sort of aggregate rather than having to run instances of stuff at that layer I\u0027m wondering if you can do a similar thing at the VLAN layer because what I\u0027m seeing you\u0027re gonna be right now I think you\u0027re running an instance of l3 dl / VLAN you know and the hellos and potential keeper lives might generate a lot of chatter I\u0027m wondering if there\u0027s a way to do a similar approach of that as well anyway it\u0027s a thought that a fundamental one nice l-ltp that\u0027s kind of one of the one of the benefits of LTP kind of runs below the VLAN layer so it\u0027s speaking so you have the ability to aggregate that stuff so anyway I I think so that was my other questions just to be clear the lle I if I was running multiple VLANs on a wire I would be using lle yeah I could identify which instance of VLAN effectively that that that\u0027s running on and another system identifier could be like Mac identifier plus a VLAN ID or something like that maybe right yeah ah cubed LR Chris Paul it would be great "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:29:03",
    "text": "if you can send that out on a mailing list I think that\u0027s a great topic because most probably I\u0027ll forget but I\u0027ll pick it up on the mailing they saw an email that would be fantastic thank you okay thank you Paul anybody else okay thanks thank you all right so the next slide will be an update I think all your an update for LG db2 enik um wander back there bleats back there they went had a chance to sign the blue sheets okay thanks okay I\u0027m Paul Congdon and I\u0027m also acknowledging Paul Batra he\u0027s not here he but he is working on with me on the I Triple E to kind of help do this definition so we have a project in return I won a B D H I can give you the whole I Triple E decoder ring for all the letters if you\u0027re interested but fundamentally this is a what we call lldp version two so first major disclaimer I\u0027m on an individual here I\u0027m not speaking on behalf of I Triple E so you know I\u0027m just telling you my perspective of what we\u0027re doing here so just as background you can look at these at your leisure we originally proposed a update to lldp back in January and then we did sort of a initial first cut of evaluation against the lsv our requirements because the objective was could we support try to support what lsv our needs by making modifications to lldp there\u0027s been some liaison exchanges back and forth between a Triple E and ITF on the topic and you know we we now have a project approved there\u0027s some final logistics within the I Triple E to actually get it you know slowly staff but we\u0027re at a point where we can kind of move forward so what was kind of driving all this you know from our perspective you know it\u0027s kind of like discovery protocols going wild everywhere there was the work in Ellis VR as you guys all know about there\u0027s also been some other discovery in the ITF such as the ID our neighbor auto discovery we even worked with the ITF on a virtual station that interface discovery protocol for nvo 3 and that takes advantage of lldp but sometimes the amount of information that needs to be exchanged there is large so well if he doesn\u0027t always fit perfectly there\u0027s also another project and the I Triple E called Auto attach which does assignment of V vids and i Syd\u0027s if you\u0027re familiar with provider backbone bridging that also runs into size limitations with lldp but it\u0027s it\u0027s a effectively an application running on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:04",
    "text": "top of LOD P so there\u0027s a lot of a lot of use a lot of need and we were really stretching the needs for for LOD P so it was clearly time to do something and revise that protocol as we all know it\u0027s pretty widely deployed people have you know kind of quote used it and in many different ways many different environments not you know data centers to wireless networks to you know campus lands and there\u0027s a facility to define your own information either as a standards organization or as an individual vendor and people have come up with all kinds of use cases so the amount of data that people are wanting to send just keeps growing so so we needed to start this project and so the fundamental thing was to scale it to allow what we call we\u0027re calling this informally lldp applications or people that use lldp data we want to be able to scale the amount of data that they they can share and so and clearly lsv our requirements were one of those things we also had requirements in and we\u0027re doing time-sensitive networking you know debt net style stuff in theatrically as well and and there was a need to actually go the opposite direction and shrink lldp PDUs so that you can schedule them in mix them in with other traffic so so that\u0027s a facility that we\u0027re also doing so this project is as an amendment to the the current standard and it\u0027s going to allow what we call TLB databases to consists of multiple frames so so think of what you have is a database it\u0027s just a bunch of TLV so in in LS VR you have the IP address encapsulation list of various things that it\u0027s that that node has that\u0027s part of an overall database that it wants to share with its peer so just think of it as you know a generic database and now that database needs to be bigger than what can fit in a single layer to frame and so anyway let\u0027s see what else that one of the key advantages to was to allow this new version of lldp nose to still talk to the old version as though they were an old version so if you have LDP running all around anywhere else and your new updated version you can still exchange that first frames worth of data and everything is fine it\u0027s just you can\u0027t do more than one frame to an old version that guy has to get upgraded so anyway we think it\u0027s we think just this facility and the way in which we\u0027re doing the extension you know should satisfy a lot of discovery needs for other many of these new use cases that are out there so what were some of these objectives first one is to be completely transparent to the users of lldp so again like an application that\u0027s expecting data we don\u0027t want that application to have to change at all it\u0027s just now allowed to send and receive more data than it used to that\u0027s the from the user level it should look "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:05",
    "text": "the same and so we again we want to support you know more than one frame worth of data I think initially lsv our requirements were around 64 K they may be bigger now it looked like or at least you have the facility to send lots of data so and then of course we want to as I mentioned for time-sensitive networking we also want to shrink things if possible or have the ability to configure it in a way to shrink the data so that you can you can schedule it again communicate with version ones it should work over shared media although we\u0027re gonna really more or less optimize it for point-to-point so that will be the the better use case and one of the key things is we want to make sure we\u0027re ensuring that the integrity of that data so we know that we\u0027ve received everything that that pier is trying to to advertise if you will and that\u0027s been a useful that would be a useful feature even in version one implementation some people have implemented their own way of doing that another key thing about this new proposal so changes in the the most recent proposal is that we support what we\u0027re calling pacing of refrain of frames at the receiver so in other words instead of just blasting out a ton of frames to a node that only has one buffer for we\u0027re gonna allow that receiver to consume the data at whatever rate it needs to so if it\u0027s a rich implementation with a lot of memory it may request a whole batch of frames but if it\u0027s a very lightweight IOT type implementation it may just get that data one frame at a time it really it\u0027s so it\u0027s receiver paste and that was a key change in the latest proposal and again we wanted we don\u0027t want to really try to increase network traffic we\u0027re gonna send more frames as you know lldp is a periodic protocol every so often just sends out the one frame so the version two will look exactly like that they\u0027ll still just be one frame that gets sent out however if you need the extension data a receiver will ask for it and then you\u0027ll you\u0027ll transmit it so we won\u0027t just be multi casting stuff all over the place and then since we have the the book open if you will and and and the pin to modify it and let\u0027s look at maybe some other things that might be of interest so maybe supporting a larger TLV itself today the the sizes is restricted by the format we could consider larger formats for extensions and I know the authentication idea is a high high want here you guys have a draft in play for that so that could be an example of something is well to consider okay so just as a quick reminder this is how the current operation works very simple protocol widely deployed think of these as again we think of them as databases it\u0027s just you have as a local agent I have my local information I want to tell people about so just periodically I send it out and the receiver gets that and he "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:05",
    "text": "compares with what he got last time if it\u0027s different he signals the application that something\u0027s changed and he updates everything so the entire database got got updated and then if you change something locally that\u0027ll trigger the the transmission quicker so it\u0027s it\u0027s very simple you know protocol not too complicated so the proposal for the new thing is to define use the current frame format for the the level one but to find a new PDU or a new TLV in that PDU so again we still have the same version one frame that an lldp one implementation would be able to receive it but will they define a new lldp extension PDO so a new frame and what we\u0027ll do is we\u0027re gonna describe those new frames in a manifest so the first frame that we send that looks like lldp v1 it\u0027ll have an additional TLV that has effectively a manifest defining all the other tlvs that are out there so then when you receive that you\u0027ll be able to know if you have all the extension data or not and if you don\u0027t then you request it frame at a time or batch at a time whatever whatever you want so that\u0027s the high level that\u0027s kind of how it works so yeah the manifest defines a way to to identify each of the extension frames and again the transmission of those extension frames is going to be controlled by the receiver he\u0027s going to pace it at what rate he wants I think that\u0027s pretty clear and I\u0027m going to the details and the another important attribute is we want a version one implementation that receives an extension PD you to basically ignore it because if you recall a version one implementation when it receives an lldp frame it throws away everything it knew before and replaces it with this one frame new frames worth of data so we have all these extra frames that are extension frames we don\u0027t want an lldp version one to even see them so we have to think about how we do that and there\u0027s various ways including you know getting a new ethertype but i think the current proposal right we\u0027re gonna try to do it without getting a new ethertype and so these new PDUs that have all the extra data they\u0027ll have a new format they\u0027ll still have the the chassis ID port ID so you know who came from the pier and then they\u0027ll have some way that identifies them like I\u0027m frame number 5 of 10 you know and that\u0027ll be a new part and then the rest of it will just be tea obese they could be new formatted team Ovie\u0027s or they could just be the existing ones we\u0027ll have to decide and then there\u0027s this new it can request for extension mess so this is again how the receiver says okay I\u0027m missing frame five please give me frame five or I\u0027m missing frames one through seven give me one through seven and and then once the the receiver has everything he he knows by the manifest "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:05",
    "text": "that that he\u0027s up-to-date and he can signal the application that the date is available so this will support you know again shared media as well multiple peers on shared media won\u0027t be as optimized for shared media but it\u0027ll it\u0027ll it\u0027ll work there and again we talk about receiver pacing and you will only ask for things that are out of date and then there\u0027s no change to the periodic transmissions you\u0027ll still periodically transmit the first frame would the manifest and the TTL would would rely on that so in this situation same same agents remember they just have more data they have this manifest that\u0027s required in the base TLV so when something changes locally you\u0027ll send out that first frame and the receiver will get that and he\u0027ll look at that manifest and compare and say hmm I\u0027m missing some some frames so he\u0027ll send a request for extension and that\u0027ll be a unicast packet it won\u0027t be multicast it\u0027ll be unicast back to the to the sender and then he\u0027ll send those extension PDUs as he needs and once the receiver has collected all of that data it\u0027ll signal the application that something\u0027s changed we\u0027ve got a new a new database and so again from the applications perspective everything looks the same and then after so everything settles and nothing\u0027s changing it just looks like regular lldp you\u0027re sending out your periodic frame with the manifest and if somebody new joins they on a shared media they would see that and and pick up from there okay so as I mentioned we had done an evaluation sort of what lsv our requirements were in if I were to say at 50,000 foot that you know your LCR is doing a couple things like you said it\u0027s it\u0027s exchanging a database of information encapsulation types and and things and it\u0027s but it\u0027s also doing you know this layer to lie this and it may have an authentication scheme and some vendor extensions and things like that so if I look at with our new proposal could can we support these things these is sort of the the guesstimate yes I think you know obviously the lle I is just a chunk of data relatively small attribute list is the same we would just despite define a TLB the authentication data we need to see that\u0027s why I was asking the question about the size because it would it fit in the current TLV or do we need to grow the size of a TLB I think the encapsulation and addresses are fine one thing to keep in mind this came up in a hall conversation there\u0027s multiple types of tlvs in lldp usually you just receive one of them but it\u0027s possible to see receive multiple of the same TLB type so in other words if I have let\u0027s say a a layer three encapsulation TLV that I define for LS vr I K and I need to send "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:08",
    "text": "more encapsulations than will fit in one TLB well I just send multiple of those tlvs that works you don\u0027t have to you know you only have one TLB of one type so you can replicate stuff so keep the lives the way they\u0027re defined in l3 DL right now I\u0027d be one second that\u0027s a little bit too fast for lldp it\u0027s not really designed to scale that way so we would be looking for alternative ways to try to address the the layer two liveness requirement the acts are sort of you know an implicit part here with the manifests and knowing that you you\u0027ve got things and then we do have vendor extensions that\u0027s already exist today and it\u0027s been been widely used so I think in general for the information exchange that we need I think we should be able to do it so if we wanted to start to say hey could when we were gonna use lldp for for LSB our requirements what we really need to be done well I think the first thing thing would be we need a draft to write to describe these new tlvs that are specific to the IETF so so we would create a internet draft that describe the format of those TL B\u0027s we already have a pretty much that format Danelle 3dl maybe maybe it\u0027s maybe that format work says is maybe it means a slight modification but we would just use lldp as a transport rather than it L three DL or in addition to L 3 DL so we would need a draft for that we would say consider some alternatives for liveness there\u0027s a standard we have connectivity fault management it\u0027s pretty widely deployed as well check your local Broadcom chip it\u0027s probably already in there so that already does layer 2 you know liveness requires some configuration but but that\u0027s there and then of course make sure as we progress this LTP v2 standard that you know it\u0027s staying within it\u0027s meeting the needs of LS VR so providing technical input review I\u0027m sure we could set up some liaison style way of sharing documents that\u0027s open and everybody can play so that would be another suggestion so anyway that\u0027s it there\u0027s a so the next steps for the project itself is we\u0027re in the technical contribution phase right now love to see open source implementation taking the L LD PD and you know forking it and adding these things to prove it out will we\u0027re going to go through an evaluation of what actual text changes need to happen to make insert this into the new document and then at some point near future it will will create a draft by an individual contributor and then at some point the an editor would be it be assigned we\u0027re still waiting for the final formal formal approval from the highest levels of I Triple E but that\u0027s expected in September 27th so that\u0027s kind of where we are I have a whole bunch of you know frame formats and stuff in the backup if you want to take "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:08",
    "text": "a look at that but I don\u0027t think we need to cover that is there any questions hi John Scudder says this was a you know sort of compelling ad good elevator pitch that and I was glad to see your your bullet that you just spoke to on the last or second last slide you don\u0027t have to go back where you said you know let\u0027s we can come up with a way to provide provide the spec so that people can read it because that was you know like by the time you had gotten through your first few slides and you know sitting in the back thinking okay where can I go grab the spec and read it because I mean it\u0027s great to see slides but until you get to read this back it\u0027s I mean you know so I sure I would look forward to you know getting some info but where to where to grab that spec sure as pretty much the next step yeah so that when we do draft developments of the specs it is a working group only document so they\u0027re password-protected it\u0027s kind of a widely known password but I didn\u0027t I didn\u0027t say that but also we have means for you know formal liaison between standards organizations to make those drafts available so be honest yes that is that password but anybody can be a working new participant it\u0027s really easy we just do a it\u0027s just contacted working group chair you\u0027ve got the information so we have a lot of contributors it\u0027s an open organization right it\u0027s there\u0027s no it\u0027s not difficult to join and become a working group member I\u0027d also like to add that during the what we call the task group ballot phase which is you know the early phases of the first rap we pretty much will accept comments from from anybody you know I mean you I it\u0027s the there is a process but we typically are gonna take input from anybody so you know you can you don\u0027t have to be voting membership and all that kind of stuff to make a comment exactly I mean any phase actually yeah comments are accepted from anyone and treated equally you not have to be a voting number you just contribute comment even in the very last stage that is the sponsor balance even is possible article si as an official way to to accept comments from anyone yeah yeah so there were at the early early slides or some pointers to our public web Docs where you can see the current state of things - yeah of course get access we don\u0027t have draft yet so as Paul keeps saying a contribution driven yeah this contribution do as well so we need to we cannot give you a draft yet we need to have contributions first correct any other questions all right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:23",
    "text": "maybe closer all right so our next presenter will be cure that surprised you know all right for the beach be SPF trapped update yes it works morning folks I\u0027m gonna give a quick update on Alice we are bgp SPF from a status standpoint the draft was updated on Sunday by AC it\u0027s in a fairly fairly stable state we have an implementation now on it full implementation is now done on the spec there is another implementation there is also on the way probably from an open source community and at least three operators have signed up to test and evaluate the protocol itself to see how it operates from a cost standpoint it\u0027s fairly stable as part of implementing the draft the yang model is already in place like I had mentioned earlier the formats of SPF reuses LS Safi of bgp itself so when we designed the model we naturally designed the model for LS toughy also and we will come up with a draft for Singapore ITF again the model itself is fairly straightforward we do want to start working on while we work on the mod models draft we do want to start working on protocol implementation draft and probably an experienced draft if possible and people keep on telling me that this is a new protocol while I tend to think of this as just a BGP Safi extension but if it\u0027s a new protocol we probably should have an implementation and experience draft from an implementation perspective all sections of draft have been implemented pretty much all of them there was challenge in generating in some cases what the remote router ID can be when the servers don\u0027t run BGP SPF or when you start to have appearing model that is reflection base which is not an inbound peering model we basically gather this information either from lldp or l3 DL or the protocol of choice we figure out who\u0027s the remote endpoint on the link use that information to source and compute SPF as we need then again PFD is always used to leverage for abide by directional link verification so we do that using DFT we make sure PFD is turned on and as long as the link is up the neighbors ship is up finally from intro of also standpoint we ran this against different IGP protocols as draft has mentioned it does "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:24",
    "text": "give higher preference to LS VR and from that perspective when you start to do tiebreaking it\u0027s pretty straightforward where you take LS via routes as a preference give them a higher preference and implement them install them in fibbin forwarding so from an implementation strength standpoint it\u0027s fairly simple and straightforward as soon as we get second implementation from the open source we like to start doing Interop the draft that\u0027s all I have the drafts like I said again in fairly stable State we would really welcome reviews at this time any feedback comments would be appreciated because the implementations are under way we can change it if needed or else consider pushing it towards Ellis call probably seen from at Singapore ITF and maybe later yeah it\u0027s gonna address reviews but not any questions they always told me that replacing distance-vector in BGP is nearly impossible ah stand now thank you so that\u0027s the end of the draft reviews for this agenda we didn\u0027t want to cover a couple of closing comments in the next steps at this point so we just spoke of it now and there there\u0027s a number of drafts that we have that have matured over the last while and we do need to get some kind of Rio Dental I of reviewers and why we want to get those reviews done for two basic purposes we address meeting curvature but it\u0027s really important to get a bit of a better cross-section review so we can actually validate that make sure that we have something we can actually take a working last call what I\u0027d like to do is identify those on the mailing list and we\u0027re gonna look for volunteers now just as a show of hands that I want to figure out what I\u0027m gonna face in the mailing list here who would be willing to do reviews for some of these documents that we really require these for I mean I\u0027m not suggesting you\u0027re committing right now for the review but I need to try to get an assessment or we\u0027re trying to get us it\u0027s gonna whom will I will actually be able to dig into these documents and help us make sure we flush out some of the data there so just trying to pick up tests here show up and of you would be willing to do review [Music] not just in general like there\u0027s some document that we\u0027ve reviewed that you would be willing to review ruffs kind of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:26",
    "text": "interested yeah you should review your own drop by the document even if you do a good job checks and balance okay so we have a few we\u0027re gonna probably then solicit a little bit more looks like at about seven ends you need to eat there I we still want a bit up a wider selection reviewers so we\u0027re gonna have to figure out how we\u0027re gonna drag a few folks in to help us there I\u0027m not sure how we\u0027re gonna date everyone but that\u0027s going to be our big bar at this point we do know we have the LSB our sorry you know you\u0027ve put notes up there great we do have the yang work to kind of work through so I Ignace thank you for bringing it up to us we\u0027ll make sure that we kind of get that going I think we\u0027re a little maybe behind there I\u0027m not exactly sure we\u0027re gonna try to catch up is that was one of our key deliverables you know it\u0027s important to operationalize this um so expect over the next week or so we\u0027re gonna have to work with Gunther to figure out how we\u0027re gonna drag people in to get these reduce time is that\u0027s to me that\u0027s the biggest bar we have this point to make sure that we\u0027re ready for actual work culottes calls so I really don\u0027t want to go up the chain with with documents that then receive review post us you know sending them up there any other comments you have at this point okay so I do appreciate everyone coming out you did have a bit of a short agenda but that\u0027s okay we had lots of real pretty Q\u0026A now before we break there\u0027s any last comments anyone want to say anything the mic okay blue sheets who loves blue sheets if there\u0027s one up here one back there I\u0027ll come Thanks so thank you very much that concludes the work [Music] [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:29",
    "text": "[Music] this morning "
  }
]