[
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:26",
    "text": "[Music] hello everyone welcome to the working group and we\u0027re about to start the agenda for today is I will have presentation applicability draft and then come talk about multihoming and how to control this aggregation and then Tony P will provide latest update on the main spec and then I have a couple of slides on their applicability because I lick ability you know we didn\u0027t get to write everything so I just have two or three powerpoints I can quickly talk about the issues that we\u0027ll be putting into applicability trough probably know just to make just to press the time so are they part of your slides or no it\u0027s it they kind of part of Sandy\u0027s presentation because she\u0027s driving the applicability draft so we talked through all these things but not everything made it made in you know such kind of lucky Luger hat have a receive the site yeah I sent your slides I mean we have time if we run out of time I\u0027m cool I think we\u0027ll have time so zero nine has been posted we\u0027ve issued the working group consensus and waiting her write up reviews her ongoing the document is long so it takes a lot of time unfortunately so we expect to finalize sometime between Singapore Vancouver hopefully we also plan to do land which I wouldn\u0027t call it fixes but simplification so we\u0027re still I\u0027m still looking for someone who is native speaker and you know leisure person who could really simplify the text we have adopted an specification after it has been updated to match 0-9 it\u0027s pretty much ready for working with last call more rocks me there\u0027s a multi custom beer and listen PGP and segment routing so it\u0027s all being planned we also plan to recharge there before one cover since main document is done we are going to focus on progress ink and finalizing the other documents of specifically PGP segment routing the multicast hi Rodney so since this went "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:32",
    "text": "through working west call I am read the document and I\u0027m not a native speaker in case you want me to read it but how are we in this question maybe for you and the Shepherd and the author\u0027s how are we reviewing the model itself and in then we make it a multi-part question you mean 3v part of it yes so I noticed that when we talk about you know doing the modeling thrift which is fine yeah that\u0027s perfect it\u0027s no problem but since we\u0027re the first ones to do it we\u0027re probably gonna have to go through any growing pains that we have to go straight so I noticed several things the appendix is normative right which means that it\u0027s fine but we should you know make sure that the model is reviewed somehow I don\u0027t know that we have anyone who beyond the authors who know thrift I mean we don\u0027t have a thrift doctor or yang dr. sorry we don\u0027t have a thrift doctor that could check the syntax and everything else I noticed that the reference that\u0027s in there is public which is good and I don\u0027t know that it\u0027s stable in the sense that it seems to point to the LDL I think or the idea and when you look at that page it\u0027s like well this is for a specific version so I\u0027m not sure that because I just don\u0027t know if that makes a difference going forward if at a different version just going to be a different result if that\u0027s going to affect interoperability in the future or not and and if you know the reference gonna be stable enough for us to look at which goes back to your reviewing the synthesis itself right the fact that it compiles and it runs and there are multiple implementations doesn\u0027t this really mean that it is correct right meaning we go through this all the time with yang models so they compile and it looks okay but then the young doctors say well you should really format it this way or etc so much questions but I think we need to think about this stuff as we go through the process not bring down this era but yes we go through the process we need to have answers to all that because I know that I can\u0027t review the thrift same pians very valid concern so I try to find people outside of ITF fox general drift but the answer solves why should they so I assume we are going to iterate same way we do with young models after we have published and if you found by building new implementation that something doesn\u0027t work we can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:32",
    "text": "always risk pin and you know do quick update yes but that doesn\u0027t I understand but I mean obviously Tony knows what\u0027s in it right but asking him to review it it\u0027s like drinking so kool-aid so it doesn\u0027t really help run 20p juniper so finding someone to review the thrift is more up to the chairs okay the stones of thrift in the industry are not necessarily you know in our field now why should they I don\u0027t know up to the chairs to like do the salesman\u0027s job as to the thrift compiler well we will be facing the same problems GRP c2 and the GRP c3 right if they move major version is like good luck to you thrift has been very very stable because Apache you know put that stuff away back and the compiler has been stable there is no like official binding spec of thrift language but neither there\u0027s of G RPC and I wish we had to yank that does the job but we don\u0027t and maybe we\u0027ll have long term right so that\u0027s about this best practical ascensor this can be even right now right so I don\u0027t know if the ATF has done any formal specifications you see in G RPC so if we haven\u0027t then you know it doesn\u0027t matter the comparison but every other modeling language that we have right we have doctors to look at self now you said something that I want to ask about you said if Apache goes and changes a compiler to some other major version or something there may be issues meaning that if you did your implementation and it did mine and I compile it with something else we might not be able to control it is that true or am i understanding so I will just for a second Bruin is amazing that\u0027s open so Bruno I I jump in an approver can talk so first thing it\u0027s more subtle because the compilers deliver actually the code in different target languages Umesh issues between target languages welcome to the beautiful world of modeling that\u0027s why I\u0027m so happy we have actually three programming languages implementations and each of them have a different back-end code come from the compiler and they all interrupt second a bola will probably talk about it we very carefully checked whether what thrift was promised is actually valid like when we omit elements and the optional without default and whether the stuff really shows up and we can we can decode something we added an element and so on so we did pretty I would say annal checking with Bruno whether the stuff "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:32",
    "text": "holds up because otherwise you knew we couldn\u0027t progress the model without like doing go going through the major versions but yes I mean Industries is doing tons of ideal now it\u0027s all over the place and we kind of have to catch up and I I guess over time we probably have to evolve evolve the yang if we have the energy and the time to do those things otherwise we have to you know learn to live with all these ideal languages sorry so Bruin I can hear but cannot speak he\u0027s saying that when he tried compiled for another language he had some problems with handling and a number soon we\u0027ll see some minor issues between languages but at least the songs that have been test should be probably and the interdependency is not really idea domain right well we\u0027re supposed to be producing interoperable specifications right yes vacations Interop about the companion behavior to say is that all the first two you know some other time that you want to argue that with someone else but what I was going to say is that we should at least include I just look at the draft and there\u0027s some there\u0027s an implementation looks like maybe considerations section maybe you wanted to include an implementation status section that talks about you know a little couple paragraphs of what implementations have already been done yeah this compiled to this language that compiled that other language you know etc so that when people look at this at least you know they may not have the same thoughts or it might be easier to go through in the same draft no in the same oh so 7540 whatever there\u0027s an RFC that talks about best practices in indicate implementations so it\u0027s basically a section that talks about the current state and in fact if is removed when the RC is published so it is mostly for information of the reviewers and you know everyone else and so when everyone starts saying we don\u0027t have know where the heck this and you know who reviewed it and whatever at least we can say well but look it\u0027s compiled in different languages and you know whatever there\u0027s some inference ations they interoperate I know that is that doesn\u0027t mean that the objections right it just means that yeah if this is a moving target we could have some sex idea our link to be KITT where describe the link itself is immutable but the content is true either way well discussed Estonian so yeah okay no problem let\u0027s put an implementation section in that get basically nuked before the stuff gets you know RFC as proposed standard as a meta observation this is not different than having an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:33",
    "text": "implementation in the C compiler bug but just a different level I mean it\u0027s not like we fundamentally changing the world right we\u0027re getting better tools and each of the tools we\u0027ll have it quirks and the quirks can affect that now the resulting output and these quirks will be fixed if enough people have interest and run this stuff so it\u0027s not fundamentally unfixable or moving target I agree I just you know trying to guess what issues may come later so that we try and solve them now and not wait till okay so points taking and so again for three three views specifically if someone can help you know I try to being some people at Facebook no one wants to spend their time on this unfortunately and they they shouldn\u0027t really okay Dima i I want to discuss controlled desegregation and multihoming in data center networks it\u0027s not specifically about reefed but I want to go through the slides to show problems which are difficult to solve without reached so essentially why we want to do this creation and aggregation of course some problems which are difficult to solve if we are using BGP which is commonplace in a really large data center networks now that basically boils down to following things in factory if we consider any particular level it\u0027s completely disjoint nodes don\u0027t know about each other and some decisions cannot be really made using only local information but it can be solved with reefed and quite elegantly to limit the scope of discussion we are talking about layer three data center networks only considering only enriched ability but not considering the asymmetrical bandwidth and we are not talking about details of rift implementation because it was discussed many times before just to remind the topology of the network we are talking about in examples I will use these two spine levels and one Li for totally level all the directions south north east west and essentially we are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:37",
    "text": "following quasi quasi core closed building procedure recursively we are taking some elements with some radix combining them into Samson which we can consider switch an element with higher Alex and if that\u0027s not enough very repeated that\u0027s it and basically different ways to scales and data center networks we are usually doing hire addicts and multiple levels so viagra gate first of all it\u0027s to get smaller state both for foraging and for outing and second to potentially achieve small breast rattles but there is a problem potential problem when we aggregate in multi pass routes what kind of multiple routes we have and how they propagated I\u0027m talking about propagation of routes to contrast what we have this distance reactor and BGP to what potentially can be done with drift so what we have first is default or entire data center network aggregate which Kyocera seen it it\u0027s usually not usually it\u0027s always owned north toward top of fabric and it propagates south from top of fabric it shouldn\u0027t propagate north from some node on the intermediate level and there could be small aggregates situational they appear in foreign cases when we do for example host multihoming or when we introduce extra mesh between spine levels or if you\u0027re trying to do something like redundancy on the top of Port lado which some hyper scalars do it introduces valley routing so basically a traffic could go down to the leaf levels and reflects back to spine one level and then reflects back to correct leaf and it\u0027s problematic because it has its own corner cases those small aggregates raise a point - it depends on the place in the network say my points house they might point north really depends on where we are in the network and then normally propagates from the origin up to the top of fabric then reflected and propagates nose or south to the rest of the network okay there are some positive things with aggregation why we do disagree eight basically the reason is when we combine multipass and there is an aggregate this aggregate covers multiple destinations and we have favors somewhere not on the dirac next-hop but remote favors reach "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:37",
    "text": "ability becomes a symmetrical basically not all the intermediate next hops are valid for all the remote destinations and if we try to use only aggregate Road what eventually can happen is that we come to some node which originates that aggregate but there is no way to go further from that node does a particular destination really need and says B : and in particular if we consider cost apology classical cost apology there is specific property if you look from top of fabric down to the leaves there is only single pass from any particular top of fabric node to any particular leaf just single pass and if favor happen along that path anywhere then that particular top of fabric node becomes ineligible for routing traffic towards all the destinations which are behind that leaf node and that means that we can\u0027t really use default anymore because some next hops are valid for all the destinations and some next hops are valid only for subset of destinations and we do need to desegregate and of course there is a fallback scenario basically the simple thing to do we can just start with disagree gated everything never greg 8 it works but it doesn\u0027t scale and essentially we are leaving with the worst case scenario all the time and really forwarding state especially multiple Fortin state can be a problem and I will show that later so what can it be decided based on the local information we cannot decide ears following things do we need to propagate some specific routes which we received from notes south from us because do we need to propagate that specific because as notes on our level advertise aggregate but they don\u0027t have rich ability don\u0027t have routes to that specific destination and we really need to inject or propagate specific or and another question is do we have a full set of all possible valid valid routes in the network is a current moment because if we don\u0027t then we are potentially broke hall in Samson of course once again one of the potential solution if we know all the destination in advance in can distribute that to all the nodes in the network so it could be potential solution but it\u0027s really it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:39",
    "text": "not feasible most of the time and here at some examples it works excellent so what we have here is a stopper fabric spine to note and we have Ferrer on the wing from this node to the node on level one that means that we cannot go from this node to this node and this error just shows a way we want to send traffic so this particular form means that this node and these links which with the dashed lines they\u0027re ineligible they invalid if you want to get to that particular destination and that means as three of the spine 1 notes these days and these cannot really use the default is they need to have more specific routes because they cannot send traffic to this note via this top of fabric note what\u0027s interesting is if we have ferrous lower in the topology like anti note or link from spine 1 down to tour note then affected part of the topology is much larger so boa Stratos is quite large and that means that we need to disaggregate not on the spinal arrows but we really need to disaggregate on the leaf layers all those leaves cannot select any note from this plane to go to that destinations they all need to go through the hero plane that\u0027s also a property of PLAs topology because basically the higher up you go in this topology then narrower and the smaller subset of remain Interpol Japan you can go and once we select plane as it is so this we cannot switch to another plane we went to this note we are confine it to this plane and if it\u0027s a problem with the connectivity from this plane to the destination Belloc just be code and well that\u0027s how it looks with 2 spine layers situation becomes a little bit more interesting if you have more than two spine layers but essentially the same the lore is a little we we have failed the largest by Australian small notes need to disaggregate more notes cannot use the default but really most of the deployments are fine with one or two spine levels very few deployments they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:39",
    "text": "really need more than two spine nails and another thing is favors and forward and state problem is that in modern switches especially if we are talking about commodity hardware S\u0026P fortune state is a scarce resource and it\u0027s not vendor specific it\u0027s just how workups lookups work essentially once we\u0027re dealing with ECP after a longest prefix match lookup you have a couple of additional tables we have a simple group table which in turn points to the block of next hops and those resources are limited so we should be careful and they can be consumed quickly because usually it\u0027s okay to have moderate number of groups but especially of intermediate spines which have very widely seen P looking north the number of consumed next hop entries is basically a number of unique next hop groups multiplied by the weeds or PCP and Boozer PCP could be 32 or 64 on modern switches so it\u0027s really scarce resource all the Leon leaves on top of rack switches number of potentially unique next subgroups is usually limited by the number of combination of next hop for example typically if you have some slight 8 up links there are only 2000 5256 potential combinations of our valid and invalid next hop so that\u0027s 256 next four groups marks another situation where we have to deal with aggregation and control the disaggregation is if we want to do host multiform and and specifically a layer 3 host multi forming so setup is 4 and we have a pair of switches and a number of hosts our door home to those switches each switch is a bear originates the same obligate and in this situation leaf or Torah don\u0027t have enough local information to figure out foreign things first if the host is dead or it\u0027s just the link towards earth crust is dead locally we cannot really decide that means that only horse decides and host makes a decision to inject more specific routes in case of one of the airplane sparrow and another thing is that leaf cannot decide locally if another leaf in the pair is alive or dead and if you have a bunch of specifics and we are sure that another leaf is dead and not an advertising the aggregate it\u0027s okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:39",
    "text": "to suppress that specifics those specifics but if we don\u0027t we need to propagate them and that decision cannot be made locally that could be a really serious problem because if you consider a scenario with a power cycle or powerup for pod or even entire data centers switches in the prayer never comes up at the same time and it can be a real massive injection of specific routes so how it looks first consider that pair and just couple hosts at such are patched and whatever for on one of the links so both switches but originated aggregate for the pair they agree Braca been propagated north and host x sees that it has lost one of the op links and decides to inject more specific routes and everything basically works as expected because that specific attracts all the traffic towards the host but consider the situation when entire switch goes down now or all the hosts attached to the pair of switches are injecting more specific routes because they locally decided that it\u0027s time to inject specifics to be reachable but in this case really switch eight have to propagate also specific because switch pin is down it doesn\u0027t recognize aggregate it doesn\u0027t attract the traffic so it\u0027s enough to only propagate that aggregate but it\u0027s impossible to do that decision locally without information about neighbors so that basically scenarios what\u0027s common in all of them is that the proper decision making in those scenarios depend on non-local information and it\u0027s very difficult to achieve if we are using path vector routing but it solves all scenarios nicely in particular because of both link state propagation north and south reflection South\u0027s reflection allows to distribute information about neighbors on the same level so we know that if the neighbor is alive or dead and what kind of support information and what kind of reach ability it has and it allows to solve a lot of those problems without some extra mechanism or trying to attach finite States machine to the BGP or whatever without some external decision-making logic that\u0027s it Tony we decided to let you talk now and then to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:40",
    "text": "continuous applicability any questions thank you Dima so if you\u0027re interested in backup section you could download slides it shows you how next web structure looks like and I love to explain in details what was told and I\u0027m only told you half the truth because they\u0027re doing very interesting things yeah and actually it\u0027s a practical output from having people lab that staff and looking like this aggregation behavior right in the cost of routes is that some people are asking actually for knobs were at between the leaf and the pod level especially the run server they would like to have the desegregation all the time because that singing 3 speeds up you know link failure to the to the leaf without actually being a big burden so if you have a rack with 40 servers it\u0027s like you know hundred addresses so they would like to have to Don the server always pretty for desegregated they don\u0027t want to deal with the first link failure whereas at higher levels of course you can cause a lot of these aggregation all right so I basically tell you what was going on in nothing too exciting specs done which is like going through the motions documenting more and more so the village sketches is another thing so I just tell you what\u0027s going on the review status so that\u0027s like the second round we had actually already a first round on the force stuff done and now we progressed to the age so from the security side we kind of cleared everything up which I mean those are the people most interesting questions so that that stuff is all wrapped up and all from the ops inform the routing year we had basically you know issues to clean up and on the Jen art from sparks we got like not ready and somewhat a larger discussion I talk about a lot of although I improved on the on the truss but basically the beak I\u0027ll talk talk also about what is outstanding but would I not mention is that from one reviewer came well instead the spec that will work right like it\u0027s under specified by my feeling like yeah so the argument was okay we have to and you know the spec is not precise enough people will do weird stuff so the best answer we had was okay you have to interoperable implementations fully document that you know carefully it really lasts two years look it up we have a circuit implementation come going at least I know over fourth and all the questions these people ask can be basically pointed at the spec so I asked for well "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:42",
    "text": "please please give me a measuring stick right what you mean like the spec is ready except your gut feeling and nothing came back so I assume that it will take care of itself so let\u0027s look what I cleaned up and what is still outstanding and where I asked to like some participation so the Yaak of way whatever is to contest that you just remove it and the life goes on so the requirements section it was not as much as discussion of requirements but like why is a requirement section in there right so like well we removed it fine why should we care is that extra came from two reviewers like one reviewer and more had discussion if two reviewers said like you know why is the requirement section there though requirement section is going the SR extension section is gone because that\u0027s in a different draft so they asked why sits stuff overlapping and it\u0027s not complete so that\u0027s removed and that was actually fairly persistent that it\u0027s very very much surprising because it is very contrary to what I heard originally from people which is that they like a narrative right explain it better and please push the implementation super detail somewhere off so there was only in appendices now two reviewers came back and said like well I didn\u0027t even think this stuff works until I finally arrived the appendices where I actually could reach out the protocol works so they wanted it Pauline so all the FSM and all the procedures oh okay I pulled it in so that has been done then there was a lot of very good actually like three reviewers people really chewed through this one reviewer kind of you know ran out of time of 3/4 of the document but two reviewers really chewed through the document like really really careful reading and the glossary section has so no dag and ztp I think there was a little bit of arrow but then they hammered on the three-way well this is a 3-way which is a bi-directional idea sincere i this is loose so that has been specified out precisely there was actually a SPF north and south split was not specified so that is now in glossary properly there was something more so security and the law right they said basically when you read it with with the time it becomes clear but when you heat it you don\u0027t know what it is so it makes just lowers readability of the draft so I thought it was it was really excellent I mean there really must have gone carefully through his stuff and thought about it then another very good comment was that with the anti and estée people were confusing anti with the node thai because we have no north I note South Thai and the one writer we started to throw this entire nest ice and in some examples people got confused so the whole spec of the entire estée has basically has been expanded to north or south Thai it was it\u0027s a small thing but two people said that you know that is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:43",
    "text": "where the stumbled in a know mentally the general topology they cross Bart bar cross bars which you know is very key but obviously not an easy read no matter how well we try to put it out there that has been what people nailed on it there was no terminology section so we were kind of like introducing the terminology as we went along and a bunch of variables here and there so that has been pulled up to make for a simple reading and then you know these pictures ASCII art right people were stumbling because it\u0027s really complex stuff you remember I told you the HH will confuse the hell out of people let\u0027s make it an O right so everything is going to replace with a little dot because people we have these 2h h for an rj45 jacks and people stumble like other one is this - or in our pictures change it sounds trivial but you get from two people means like yeah it\u0027s a mental hurdle right to understand this back then we had a lot of things where things were still called spines which is like a very very old staff which were really top of fabrics so that improve you know just properly named things the way we introduced them on readability of example there was I mean that\u0027s an is is flavor respect so we have these deep clauses and there were 1 point 1 point 2 point 3 / 4 and you know after discussion with a reviewer eat much better to like change the numbering which to XML to RFC allows you so you have like you know number alphabet Roman something right so it makes for like easier discussion it doesn\u0027t needs but I mean ultimately this thing if it comes multiple times it will help people I mean not a big price and then lots of stuff on the normative so stuff like UI 6 T 4 you know those discussion I mean the spec I agree we have been lent int right so people start to point out well that\u0027s really normative that should be caps right so there was a couple of cases that we corrected what fell out was an interesting discussion and there\u0027s more like open to the group I mean we\u0027re very far where like in the last things but taste so we\u0027re not an immovable think the question was brought up or do we should introduce something into the schema to support the BFD strict mode so I put a clarification in how the PFT is supposed to work because that wasn\u0027t clear it wasn\u0027t breaking the spec but people could do different things so there would be mildly unexpected so at night basically BFD behaves like all the undocumented OSPF eyes eyes behavior which is basically lengthy and you don\u0027t wait for BFT and now the specs are out with the BFD strict mode on bgp and I as I saw SPF right because it\u0027s somewhat a real problem in certain deployments or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:43",
    "text": "should we put something into the schema still if you make it normative you\u0027ll have to wait and strictly beeps nowhere close to the top I don\u0027t know it\u0027s a good I don\u0027t even know what the strict mode has to be normative right so like you can safely ignore it everything will work but if you don\u0027t have to indication you don\u0027t know whether the other guy desires and strict so like you have no signaling you you may ignore the signal by you don\u0027t have to signal you cannot know whether you\u0027re willing to use it or ignore it just become and the fact that it\u0027s optional doesn\u0027t mean that it doesn\u0027t need to be normal so it\u0027s a separate draft on strict BD in read yeah but you unique the information element to indicate that you want it strict which would basically necessitate a minor schema revision and since we know that RFC da to do with just one little field so what\u0027s the big deal I don\u0027t know just a question to the room and after you know the reviewers went through the stuff you know with pincers then and that\u0027s a very interesting discussion for Alvaro now I basically the spec has somehow to pour the schema into registries right because that\u0027s what we have and our registry are only built for maybe one small space with 200 numbers this schema is generating pages and pages pages of requests right because every schema element if you want is its own namespace and it has elements inside and each of them have a reserved value possibly right so the first thing is you have the schema element I wish I would have and so now you have a structure something and you like GRP see every element is numbered so you have to reserve those elements you have say I need a namespace for whatever tie an entire I have four different elements and they have numbering one two three four so we have to reserve that and then within that their structures again right so you start to generate pages I mean knowing me I just wrote a small schema compiled on bank how he comes right here is all my requests now he said the right thing to do if you want to keep the registries I do yes because otherwise we basically have to say we don\u0027t use registry the schema is the registry in fact well so and here\u0027s one value of registries I see a big value actually because the schema could be the normative registry there\u0027s comment from Runa the registry is not the right place to publish a model we don\u0027t public young models in the registry do yeah so here\u0027s observation brew noise is always almost right he can talk and that\u0027s good so there is a big value to the registry I see and you will see that when so let\u0027s say we have this schema version two and now we go to version 3 so like yeah okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:47",
    "text": "so we have new set of registry for version 3 right but mostly we go miners like let\u0027s add a field that\u0027s an optional field and those are the schema goes from 2 0 2 to 1 which means that anybody who runs to 0 will find a we work is like a drusen I as I still tell thee that you ignore but now we could maintain in the schema something that reserved structure but actually versions with schema version supports this field and now if an implementer that\u0027s really really helpful because I can write an implementation and I can look at the pack and go like ok it\u0027s comes with two ones oh I know oh I can go and look at this field and it comes with two zero and now I know I don\u0027t have to but now if you just have the previous document with your schema to zero and then another documents get probably with two one you have to run a diff and hope for the best whereas the registry is very normative it\u0027s very you can look at the whole thing and see which version supports you know which field so I think there\u0027s a lot potentially lot of value having registries running this way no because the histo histo Racal track is then very normative very well controlled and what also that can of course happen so let\u0027s say you have the schema version 2 I\u0027d really are completely independent of riffed if we go into now schema stuff that\u0027s all just price of living right for luxury of avoiding 90% of the dumb work we\u0027re doing manually that the schema compiler does for us this is the price so the other thing that the registry will avoid is that we have a document published to zero right and now two extensions come up like two eyes I steal these same thing and they basically start to extend the schema and they go like to one and the other one is to one or even two too but they can collide by taking a code point on the structure right so if you don\u0027t have anything you may just happily progress those documents and extend the schema and everything hits the fan even publish them and everything hits the fan where people named implemented they say do documents look the same code point right even if the schema they even if they talk to each other and they realize are you thinking two one oh you better take two - right now the two - does it imply that - one is in it well maybe not even right so now you have to synchronize the guys who gonna do that they may talk to each other if you\u0027re lucky but if they meet on the registry and they have to ask okay I\u0027m coming with the - one with this field and the other people tell them no not first two ones already taken and second this field is possibly the same value then you cannot devolved its utilizes the schema evolution right because the schema the beauties in like eyes I steal these multiple people can progress it but ultimately when multiple people progress eyes eyes extension they have to go to the registry and ask for the number and if the number collides it\u0027s a no-go and here the registry would play the same serialization right it will make "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:48",
    "text": "sure that the schema version progress in a linear fashion and second that you will not have a collision of the code points so I think there\u0027s value I learn what do you think I mean it starts a discussion years ago right how we\u0027re going to normatively what are we doing with the schema so the document right now has a long iron a section I\u0027m assuming that you\u0027re doing registers right now right well which is a news item generated I compile the schema and I produce this wonderful Lyanna section but it\u0027s all the same reason that you just said avoid collisions and in case of extensions something that I agree I have no idea how often major schema verses are gonna come by yeah or anything like that because if it\u0027s every six months then who cares I just engine stand I think things are really make sense so either this stop will be not successful which means quiet life or otherwise if this thing becomes let\u0027s assume it becomes wildly successful just like is Isis then I mean what is the resolution I mean how often do we extend eius eius so command like six months jabber come in from Bruna so I\u0027m Jeffrey so they say I\u0027m a green let\u0027s just serialize the models themselves her publishes Model T one first wins the other party has to fix the merge conflict and publish to the to yeah but then you know how do we publish models because right now it\u0027s just part of a document I stuck it isn\u0027t append exist at the right way or maybe we have a special registry type called schema I know but I mean we I think we won\u0027t be able to avoid the benefits of schema longer term alright so I just set it out there in the room that was what was going on then a very good comment someone read the math section of the sequence number and realized that I was full of it when I called in all the relations symmetric so they needed fixing so there is the two to do store out there so one observation was that it\u0027s very cute that I\u0027m giving them a dot thing and you can run into a dot compiler and look at the FSM but it\u0027s not like you know the most beautiful thing in the world we have the version 3 and exactly one RFC published so it\u0027s like going because I think we looked at it six months ago it wasn\u0027t there yet so I have to put the SVG in which we have right off the FSM and publishes as as version 3 in PDF with the pictures so that\u0027s something isn\u0027t it the second one is basically simplify the language right you know that the famous thing like so the same who said the speck it maybe underspecified heads said that it\u0027s too much text maybe it should be simpler so it\u0027s like the the Mozart movie you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:49",
    "text": "where after the opera the Emperor tells Mozart you know too many notes a great thing was just too many notes right so we but we have to tie it in the language I mean I\u0027m sympathetic with that which means probably shorter sentences smoothing over the declaration you know the the some of the descriptive text volunteers highly desire right and it\u0027s basically just reading and just smoothing the language into more readable text it wasn\u0027t like it\u0027s factually wrong or you know it\u0027s very unclear some of the sound like can you at this and the other but basically smooth this thing for easier reading sentence is too long maybe no little bit on complexity sometimes you know context may be better clarified so that\u0027s just no no magic just need some good reader who is willing to discuss stuff a little my scale here the RFC editor is usually fantastic at helping doing this I mean could we just open up a bit the envelope of what we ask from them and say eh in this case you\u0027re allowed to look a bit more into the working of our sentences because they help already doing this no okay Adrian off you know something I don\u0027t know well Adrian is editorially true the RCO does a wonderful job all the time however we need document to be readable and reviewable by a bunch of other people so I would prefer if it\u0027s Jeff\u0027s just before if this was done before in other words we don\u0027t want to just leave everything to the editor because you know they have a lot of work done hundred and fifty four-page spec writes and I also think it\u0027s non-productive right because what you want is sit there and have someone read and ask question and smooth it it\u0027s not like you throw it over to the editor it comes with a bunch of question he\u0027s like hungry 140 pages right so I mean I got these comments and it wasn\u0027t like it\u0027s unusable it\u0027s more like well no it could be smoother all right sentences sometimes too long edging on here get on the grammar look at stuff so no I need volunteers who are willing to sit in a room no in a room for an hour and read through sound as well that doesn\u0027t read well can you like smoothie I mean I\u0027m not I\u0027m not I\u0027m doing the editing so not a big deal but it just needs someone who will put the brain to look you through another lens okay comment from Bruna I suggest just given up on going SVG diagrams ATF to support that\u0027s not good enough it is a huge hurdle in reading text version let\u0027s just do ASCII art fsm diagram instead I can do it not really but next week sure I mean these things are complex so I don\u0027t know whether we can squeeze in ASCII well I assume Bruno can or we can break it up into multiple HSV\u0027s just subsets of transitions publish these things are so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:49",
    "text": "bloody rigid you touch anything you know you have to manually update it but yeah so I don\u0027t know how good these days VG stuff I just started and I saw that it\u0027s pretty arcane but I assume it works if it doesn\u0027t and of course you know it\u0027s much less fun alright and the last one was people pointed out that more stuff should be normative and that\u0027s again you know we really need yeah just quick question format its document already in version 3 or just relationship no I started on version 3 and I look for example I realized this one RFC published in version 3 right the one and he doesn\u0027t have any picture so like yeah yeah exactly so then I started to look at Wade\u0027s document and how you put a picture in and it could be the first yes it looked fairly arcane but you know my mana if you know good well a well meant assumption was that the stuff actually works well I think I\u0027ll be pushing the curve and Bruno does the ASCII art we see where we end ok and don\u0027t fine-tooth comb on the normative that more stuff needs to be normative I got one two examples which were correct right but it\u0027s again reading and thinking through the stuff that\u0027s probably less for people who just enjoy you know and English and smooth English that\u0027s more the people who are actually well in the protocol for a bit because it can lead to discussion because the protocol is because it\u0027s very free routing is extremely permissive compared to normal stuff we allow tons of stuff because well do what you want you can break it like you know replace your algorithm what do we care right which normal protocols don\u0027t but there were a little bit of discussions but that\u0027s pretty much the output from them from the reviewers so basically I think that I addressed except the Jen art which was Sparks and possibly I think the ops dear gave me some of these readability comments which I have to address yeah John you Tony Jones cutter it occurs to me that since you spent so much time intimidating people by mentioning the page count on your document and then saying that you want detailed review lots of these appendix don\u0027t worry and since you\u0027re so good at parallelism maybe you know it might work I mean it\u0027s you get a certain quality of review this way but to the extent that what you\u0027re trying to do is smooth out sentence as it could work as you could farm out you know sections to different reviewers so maybe I don\u0027t have time to do 150 pages for you but maybe 20 pages would be pretty easy to a certain extent I think the introductory I mean so I have been misled by this group who was originally very you know insistent that they like in their ativ rather than the drawers "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:50",
    "text": "back and then their ratings do not paralyse that well but you know they\u0027re the narrative\u0027 is the front so I don\u0027t think that can be practically split up especially it has to like lead one into the next you have to understand why you desegregate and you understand what is a Fallen Leaf and why you need negative but from their own yeah like ztp could be probably just completely ripped out and reviewed separately John have you just volunteered to to review it hugely without a commitment to a date for the purposes of the minutes I have absolutely not agreed to do that but Tony can buy me a beer later and we\u0027ll talk so it surprised it\u0027s not with Joey where\u0027s like that you ply him with beer or beverage of choice and hope for the best okay so that\u0027s pretty much the status on the documents I think we\u0027re in a good spot just grinding forward until the reviewers are a happy bunch I think I don\u0027t think the reviews have been um half of them were fairly stringent which is a good thing all right but I think they can be satisfied and rolled forward I mean there\u0027s no road blockers like major stuff except this one comment like is it the specification good you know for which I get no answer like you have two implementations now what you\u0027re looking for an IQ spec where ITF right so okay questions encouragement bribes no all right I\u0027m done good working thank you for addressing terrorism time and we are moving to the applicability statement presentation so yeah I wonder if it works which one the door Mike no not the Mike the clicker oh it stopped working okay so now going to the applicability draft basically we are talking about updates since the previous a Jeff and next step so what was changed and mostly not changed most landed as well escaping examples please especially with miss cabling between layers ipv4 over ipv6 fabric no home in summers fabric with a controller we scrapped off options where to attach it submit mismatch and addressed feminists and any cost consideration next light please so here we mostly have diagrams from the applicability draft and from is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:50",
    "text": "cabling we consider interaction between ztp in particular and not only but also ztp and mascara in between levels which is in rate apology so what kind of miss cabling can we have and how pruning works in that case because if it\u0027s not part of well it apologies that link should be pruned next place before will be six so basic idea is drifted in advertising before prefixes and using v6 network same as our C 55 for 49 for example so using online v6 topology and using it as next hopefully for and it\u0027s expected that Intel fabric you supports at the same time of just families but it\u0027s possible to indicate what kind of rotors families no supports so it is possible to have two different topologies for different addressed families on top of the same physical topology also there is a section for doorman servers and disaggregation scenarios I relapsed a lot is what I discussed it before and also options for touching the controller which can be attached as if from the top so top of fabric notes or from the bottom of the fabric there are some things to consider when we are touch controller to the top and when it loses some as a connectivity to the top and nasan unusual when we attach in controller from the leaf because sorry it\u0027s more benign situation essentially because every scene is distributed across the entire fabric also was that it subnet mismatched and addressed families and next slide please so any cost considerations and the reference to the policy guided practice prefixes because normally if you have any caste and look from the top of fabric it\u0027s essentially multi pass route there is no way to sit in a particular node we have no way one for them to disk in Russia if it\u0027s just multi pass or single destination or E or any caste but there can be well it situation and we might want to specifically guide traffic for example if we inject traffic from some leaf "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:50",
    "text": "nodes and we have any kind any cars destinations behind some other leaf nodes we essentially want to distribute it to do Rio anycast and if there is another leaf with any cost destination attached within the same port we will never reach they remain in nodes normally because it will be shortcutted inside the port we don\u0027t want to that and to avoid it there is an option to use policy guided practices and I guess that\u0027s it yeah want comments there are also some to-do items on the applicability draft so I guess there will be at least one more iteration before adoption \u0027but one I record least for circular sections we used to do items that\u0027s it any questions comments okay thank you and we are done for the SE TF will continue working dony d ma I swear at it if you have a minute this is Bess Callaghan so I understand for the anycast sometimes you don\u0027t want to route down within the pod you want to go to the other pod room yeah yeah we want to go to all the destination and distribute traffic more or less equally if you have some anycast destination which is very close to us basically try and normally traffic routes shortcut to it yeah yeah and that\u0027s because we actually put in the rib the the information from the pod itself and we had the discussion about tunneling a long time ago and maybe you will resurrect those ideas in a separate draft but there might be cases where are you in the in the top of that you don\u0027t want you learn this thing from the flooding but you actually don\u0027t put it in your writing table you just pass it up sort of yeah and if you do that then you get the kind of results you want right because because you don\u0027t have the rot self to the unicast address there are cases for me the case was more mobility if things move very rapidly you might want send them to the tough because maybe I need a tough as a real state of where things are yeah that\u0027s basically because we have ties which prescribe to which direction we can bind the route if it were talking about anything not using some direction for any go to the top of fabric and then go other option is essentially to say in designs and network around so we have this unicast destinations not in the same ports where very generate traffic that\u0027s also violet of course 20 P or otherwise you know we can have something I mean we have communities on the prefixes right so you can put the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:50",
    "text": "community on the prefix do not install in the rip unless you\u0027re tough we can just reserve a community does a very simple solution right precisely but I mean we already have met guys we could very easily use for this so that\u0027s probably one of the sections which should be modified because sent in any caste is when a real problem in data center fabrics proper handling click here isn\u0027t working just comment so next one so basically did a couple of pictures to show you like to three things what we talked about so there\u0027s still a good amount of sections like t4 from the leaf differ from the toff that needs to flesh out and these kind of discussions are ongoing and they come from like depending people play with it in laps and you know people thinking through the issues so next one so so we\u0027ll show you quickly there well without pictures doesn\u0027t work because all about pictures all of our pictures can you hook up mine no well glorious failure in a couple of pictures without pictures you want to stick now just give PowerPoint [Music] [Music] 12 megabytes that thing dead was what did it in [Music] [Music] nope thing is unhappy otherwise you can [Music] yeah got a picture here\u0027s a flip forward "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:53",
    "text": "to the picture please alright so here are my book beautiful pictures oh oh yeah okay so that\u0027s the dot all right I\u0027ll if you know the cage so that shows you some of the configuration so what is the v4 of a v6 thingy so basically what happens is that if you come up and you only have v6 and D right you only have link local addresses and that\u0027s it and what riff does for you it indicates on the link whether the link is v4 forward incapable because otherwise how do you know what they can do v4 over v6 or you can\u0027t alright so in case you know it is v4 capable and you have to link locals and nothing else but it\u0027s of course how you optimize your implementation you know you may be very smart about what you have v4 next so v6 link law calls but let\u0027s say you know you have a link loco and you won\u0027t before and nothing else then what you\u0027ll have on your side of the implementation you will have v6 table which is resolving Linley a link-local you know the B to the Mac and that\u0027s really everything that you need if you implement it well so you can push a frame towards the v4 destination through this link and there\u0027s a gateway Mac you just use the Mac of v6 and that works just fine so that is what section of the black ability document talks about now do you have to do it that way no I mean the implementation is fairly lengthy ain\u0027t right but it\u0027s like a technique that you can use that makes especially since we\u0027ve forcing CTP so much on the protocol that is such high demand that makes for very nice et PV for support on the fabric which is basically no addressing just comes up v6 and the other one is so there is this problem that now so let\u0027s say you run your BGP in data center right so you run a v6 session and the v4 session or do you run one session with multiple next stops your divert eyes the same previous ones with the v4 necks or v6 next hops do you want to share fade if the session falls down both address families right so RIF gave a lot of consideration people playing the labs so they could be blistex session I mean that\u0027s not part of the spec because kind of the spec is self-evident if you implemented it but if you didn\u0027t then you know when they applicability document is very helpful because it explained to you that the way that rift works is that you have multiple address families but they do not share faith right because we have two types of lies there\u0027s a v4 lie and a v6 lie and the point of those lies is that that\u0027s how you get the source address of the other guy because you have to resolve the next hop now so that\u0027s well here that\u0027s what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "I omitted right you get from node B when you get the lie with the v4 capable that\u0027s also how you know what his address is right source address and then you can resolve it to the Mac that you use it as his gateway to point as to him as a gateway but in this case something funky can have happen people can change configuration and all of a sudden the v6 address he said the subnet mismatch and there\u0027s a really dump idea to forward through subnet mismatched links which is is also used to do and but there are documents explaining what happens if you do that so you better not so you probably go and check subnets and if you check the subnet what can happen is then we\u0027ll check the something that you will lose the v6 but the adjacency will stay up because the v4 is still up and drift document however says that we do not remove a F\u0027s once we have them right because otherwise you end up in a hot mess of a really complicated FSN so if you really want to rectify this condition you really have to clear digestion see I mean you can just give an alarm and say look the v6 got an address mismatch and the other thing that next one Jeffries sorry I really have to be in front and point to it so this is some of the stuff that we talk about the loot bags for controllers and controllers consideration and basically it all boils down to how much of internal reach ability do you need on the fabric by internal reach ability I mean which nodes do you want to get to from where because in the most extreme case this is a fabric and without glue bags without anything it\u0027s literally switching fabric just comes up to switch on v6 and the stuff works but now you go well maybe I\u0027m not that comfortable with it and I want to get to those nodes by a loopback or something and there\u0027s also the attaching controllers and so on presents the same points to the same no problem you want to hit a specific point on the fabric somehow so if you start to look at the loopback reachability so when you go from leaf to leaf the green stuff link failures present no problems you just you you pop up the default right and even if it isn\u0027t desegregated it means the default works because otherwise referal desegregate and guide you the right way and once you hit the top of the fabric the guy knows precisely which ways are feasible to get you to the leaf so leave to leave no special consideration leave to leave loop X always work right without actually on a seeing B loopback it\u0027s unnecessary you just send towards B and the fabric will figure it out but if you want to go from bottom to top things starts to get interesting right so that\u0027s kind of the North normal case and some people like that for bazillion reasons now imagine someone wants to do egress engineering on the fabric because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:00",
    "text": "they go out at the top of people does that about half no so half of the people just leave to leave strictly to leave and some people like come from the top exit at the top and there is for example a desire to to figure to go out a certain gateway so now you have to heat from a either alpha or beta now think about it since it\u0027s all defaults it\u0027s not such a simple thing because a sends it default but from here on it just has to defaults now if it goes to alpha but it picks up the D for two hits to beat that do a black hole right so if you want that to work then you have to push the loop back of the node one South which is no big deal right with just like you advertise D for out you just ad is more specific all right it\u0027s not desegregation because we have special ties for this aggregation right for computation purposes it\u0027s just you D for doesn\u0027t have to be a default actually the applicability trough talks when is it that you really don\u0027t want to advertise the D for you want to advertise the internal fabric default right and it goes to its the role like you may want to have more prefix if something like any caste or something like Emma was talking right like I like really this prefix from the top so I\u0027m attracting this stuff and if link fails it may be actually not even enough right because let\u0027s say I\u0027m coming from down here and I want to hit alpha now if I see default both ways and I hit it here either I will not have an alpha because this link broke only this guy who has had an alpha which means that the top of the fabric loopback has to propagate all the way down for this stuff really to work with link failures I mean that\u0027s that\u0027s just an example what goes into applicability draft in details right and how you achieve that you can do PGP you can do multiple mechanism but that\u0027s basically how you deal with the internal rich ability right do you want to come from north to the south you know no do you want to go from the bottom to top do you will need loop X and so on so that\u0027s just something to flash it out a little bit makes it work Thanks there\u0027s many more section we will be filling in and adding more pictures and whatever no not really a question but a male comment when we inject in specific are basically horse trout\u0027s on the back routes for top of fabric notes and propagating them down it\u0027s much easier on the hardware resources because all those routes are essentially unipass it\u0027s they\u0027re not consuming it simply resources so it\u0027s certainly not difficult to handle well not necessarily an order yeah depends also new implementation how you pick it out right I mean but because if if beta advertises loop I get slots it to everyone right so these well these guys is unicast but if it floods farther "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "down that the these guys will have multiple paths as I said yeah it depends on the topology in this one we have additional meshing between spine levels so yes there will be multi pass anyway it\u0027s not going to be very wide at least well is as wide as you fan out in the port right yeah okay yeah also that you concerned yeah yeah it would be like port file okay so yeah so that\u0027s I assume this is applicability dropped will actually take another at least two revisions because more and more stuff comes up the more people bang on it and do lap things and think through the stuff you know just which i think is exactly what Alvaro desired you know because we have been called the marketing document but you\u0027d still this okay thanks thanks good work and it\u0027s very useful to see the difference with other protocols and why would you deploy one versus another and I mean it\u0027s good work on applicability statement so thank you everyone and we will meet in Vancouver "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:39",
    "text": "you "
  }
]