[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "foreign can you hear me can hear you but you're pretty choppy foreign people are still joining we'll give it a moment or two more for the join rate to slow before we start"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:05",
    "text": "why can't my office have a floor-to-ceiling window like Liz's yeah yeah that sky is pretty weren't we supposed to all have like uh some kind of uh uh Sun uh Skylight fiber optic skylights that connect our basements to our roofs or something wasn't that supposed to be a thing in the 80s does it have to be a roof in California though I mean isn't that well I mean if you have more advanced portal technology than me then you know sure can I have a backyard the animed I guess is the question yeah because the roof in Northern Virginia or a full a full light a full window in Northern Virginia is not going to be as nice as the one that Liz has behind her I guess it's fine as long as you're willing to share your water with California well if we're still in the Laughing time then I think it's it's really it's just Northern California that needs to get Southern California to shape up because um in fact Sacramento has too much maybe southern California shouldn't have built itself in a desert that's why the desert's coming for you I as a as someone who was born in La I'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "happy to have everybody who wasn't just leave and go back to wherever they came from it's all the East Coast people who come to Southern California but yeah no I agree not not really trying to shut it down we just need to go ahead and jump in so um doesn't look like Jay has completely joined yet maybe he has so the uh notes have been up for a few days um the outline of the notes set the agenda does anybody have any agenda bashes before we start thank you as we get into the meeting if you're capable of sharing video please do so having it around the table experience is our goal the uh do remember though that this is being recorded and will be made available on YouTube at the end of the meeting all right let's jump in first thing that I want to brainstorm with the group about is whether or not there is anything we need to be doing tool-wise in preparation for ietf 116 that we are not already doing for convenience I copied the upcoming pertinent important dates into the notes I will call out as we talk below we've had a round of focus on meeting affecting bugs um so there's been a big push um on clearing bugs that in particular affect scheduling and then affect the use of the agenda during the meeting so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "we think that we've cleared the the really rough parts of that out of the way that I would like to um get everyone here to think about whether or not there is something that really got in the road at the last meeting that they haven't seen evidence that we've cleared away for the coming one so this will be our first draft deadline with the async submission tool API yep so I'm curious to know what percentage will come in with the new versus the old and um can we make that uh uh can we make that reduce that to zero for the old for the for 117 once we know what the trend is I don't know if we have any Trend right now data right now yeah realistically the users of the apis um the you're you're a pretty rare case using it with scripts that you wrote yourself the rest of it is just heavily dominated by the Mt um right but they have to update they have to know to update their their code and a lot of people don't know to do that so um anyway I think this was great because you know that is a that is a pain point where people do want run into errors um this may be a new experience for some people that they have the asynchronous stuff um and um uh because some people only submit the draft you know the hour before the deadline that's the only time they do it um but at least I think I feel like we're gonna it's gonna be much better experience for overall No One's Gonna Get a timeout and be confused yep I'm not seeing people rush to the microphone for hey what about this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "issue that we had so do do rock your brains if you um can think of anything that we need to address before we get to the meeting it would be better to know about it early all right we'll move on we still are planning to move DNS into cloudflare we've run into several things that are taking longer than we had originally anticipated they would um one of the ones that we're working through right now are the consequences of um who our current registers registrars are we won't go into details on that on this call um Michael asked a question in the notes um in response to the reminder that there will be a short period where the zone is not signed yes we do mean that the DS records will be withdrawn some time will be allowed to pass to let caches all catch up um than a new DS record would be inserted later and the the chain would um be built on that doing a proper in place signed rollover is really utterly impractical the combination of what the registrars provide what the cloud service providers provide um we you know we would run into trouble trying to do that at cloudflare because of some policies that they have that would not let our old key in nicely in upgrading you know row track and roll our keys in place before we went to the move has different problems and really we've we've mined this pretty hard and the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "path that makes the most sense to go through is the one that cloudflare is recommending which is to just go through a short period where we're not signed so it would be interesting to have someone um debrief you guys as to what your hassle was because it sounds like this would be actually a good BCP yeah yeah maybe over beer yes so it's still our intent to get this done um in the next few weeks if we get to where we're right up against the draft deadline of course we'll hold and wait and not disrupt the the infrastructure when we're under one of the crunch loads but we'll see Where We Are I'm going to move forward now so the next thing that I wanted to have discussion around was our progress on postgres my migrations and just the Improvement of our postgres environments in general so I'm going to cover both of the these next two topics at once as we noted at the last meeting we needed to reschedule the the transition because we discovered that we had some non-trivial issues with the differences in collation on postgres than we had under my sequel um we've done a lot of digging we are fairly confident that we understand where all the places that we need to change are we've changed most of them we've got just a few left on wrestling right now with the Django user username so that we don't end up with um the potential for collisions in the username just because of case folding"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "um life's going to be a little bit better for us under postgres in that the collation that we have been using under my sequel to date did some rather questionable things where it would fold accented characters back into unaccented characters for equivalence purposes um the next few days are going to include an attempt to migrate the actual production database our efforts so far have been focusing on the test database um we're going to trial a migration of the full production database on a machine that is the equivalent of the full production machine will basically be hijacking our hot standby and trying that work there that will inform us give us a better sense of what the actual downtime we're going to need for the true production cut over um so we should be able to report on that um before and at the next tools call so while we were down in this um Discovery period focusing on collation we noticed that the postgres install on our main production machine is very old was probably originally installed before utf-8 was the ubiquitous answer for what your default character set and galatian rules should be based around"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "um to address that we're planning over the next again couple of weeks to uh rebuild the postgres cluster on ietfa using the more modern sets of of defaults there's only one production database in postgres on the production machine right now that's the database that backs the wagtail portion of the website um that database is fairly small and updates to it are at a pace that's under our very much under our control so this rebuild of the cluster doesn't we don't anticipate that it will truly inconvenience anyone um and will be in a better place once that's made anybody have any questions any input anything that you think we should change in the direction that we're taking All Right Moving On because Sarah has been pushing um pretty hard on bringing ID diff into parity with RSC def um to get the last pieces where ID diff was not doing the same things that rscdef was and discovered that the amount of effort to bridge that last bit of Gap was probably not worth the investment compared to switching directions and moving back to continuing to support RSC diff itself um what we had been trying to do was to move to a inside a programming single programming language framework in Python was where ID def is so that we had self-contained tests that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "we had built around it as opposed to what we have with our C diff which is a shell script that's calling out to you several other languages like awk um but again the lift to get that last little bit tells us that we should just continue to focus on the RSC death instead um and go ahead and build up our test framework just expecting that we'll be shelling out to Shell for the execution and it just puts the the work in a different place um so does that mean that RFC diff will become the default again that is our plan uh uh are are the I don't experience changes that bother me I know there are a few who are quite vocal about the changes and I a little bit wonder whether a button on the ID diff output that said give me RFC diff and I don't have to enter all the details again would it satisfy what I suspect are small minority of people that notice the difference and I I I I understand that RFC diff has a significantly higher CPU uh load um and is much much less flexible uh in terms of inputs um so I'm surprised about this direction but um I understand what you're saying yeah so the biggest problem that we had with rfcdif if we back up and look at it from the the highest um level is that our web service implementation of it used a proprietary attempt to build a python-based rapid deployment thing that Henrik had written"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "this pyhd um the security issues that we had are all wrapped up in the pyhd code um the uh deployment of RSC desk that we have at authortools right now does not suffer from those issues so however we proceed we're going to deprecate the pyht wrapper as currently exposed under our GitHub organization um put appropriate red tape around it you know the the warning tape and then um eventually just archive that that particular Repository um it then gets into a question if we're going to be supporting rocdef anyhow why continue to put the effort into keeping both code bases up to date and impurity so um and an RFC div on another tools RC rfcd will be a drop in replacement so you will not lose any features that you currently enjoy with idd like providing a different format or anything like that those will be in place so let's kick around um because our Michael's suggestion for at least while we have both of them in place a really easy way to bop back and forth um from the UI um and then Michael think a little bit more about the the issues that we're bringing up here about long-term maintenance and see if you're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "um if you think that we're doing the right thing it that we would be doing the right thing by moving to just focusing on RSC diff going forward if if you say that it's like this is the you know short term next year yeah we're just going to defer some of this then I think that's great I I think the part of the issue uh going forward is that the number of people that have the awk plus shell plus this plus that knowledge um deep knowledge is is very rare it's already seemingly rare um and uh you know awkward just aqua's terrible 25 years ago right um yeah Pearl for that reason and you know we've literally had an entire generation born that uh since uh who probably you know so that's just you know even just getting contributions from people you know it's a real I would think it's a real pain to do things if someone wants to set it up themselves and have it locally wow that's probably a big disaster for most people um but anyway I I'm not I've I've read the complaints on the tools list um and I was like yeah not really that important to you you can't cope but uh you know change is hard for some people so okay it's very been very good input thank you I think we'll we'll take and um look at it again um for the the long what what our path is for the Long Haul if no one has any further questions about iddf rfcdef our next topic is about our potential"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "use of Mastodon there was a flurry of excitement suggestion that we set something up um to give it a try Nick is already given us a proof of concept that we can run an instance of Mastodon that is fairly well controlled for who would have access to it who could post um we're wondering if the right thing to do is to move forward is to try um running with this site such that the only thing that can post to it is either automated spots in the data tracker similar to the places that people had been feeding off of and see sending um messages off into Twitter um possibly having a queue similar to ietf announced that um Gregory team could moderate so that things that were outside the bounds of what might come out of an automated processing chain inside the data tracker could be sent um to this instance um they have them all be of an announced nature so thoughts anybody think that this is a good thing to do is this a waste of our time what's our what would people like to see happen Rich go ahead and jump in yep your me button one one of the many mute buttons is in your way okay there we go um too many uh too many different uis and conferencing systems um so I'd be in favor of doing some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "announce only thing where it was actually tied you know coupled to the data tracker and somebody you know a working group could just say yeah I want these kinds of announcements to go out um I don't think we should be hosting a service that lets people get a mastodon account and do their own um the way we had tried with Jabber perhaps uh but um yeah I it's uh it's fun it's the new shiny thing but there are a number of groups who are using Mark Nottingham's or other tools to post announcements including HTTP API because we have a lot of non-itf contributors so yeah I would definitely put this on the list as something automated announcements as something we should do and including that things like oh there's a new ietf blog post there's a new you know announcements of upcoming meetings and things like that um not just working group stuff any other thoughts um if the effort is low it feels like a worthwhile experiment but I think it would be good to pose it as an ex so that if um it turns out that people don't actually use it that we don't get stuck maintaining another server and service that no one ends up using actually so that that would be my suggestion no we didn't Nick j just turned his video on how it looks like he fell off the call um we may end up coming back to this because it looked like he was getting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:04",
    "text": "these activities like draft changes and other other events is that going to be done by some um ad hoc service that's going to pull the data tracker or does this mean we're adding some kind of outgoing events from the data tracker the second so we've already reasonable activity right even if the Mastodon turns out to be disaster and no one wants to go there um then we would still have that outgoing uh those outgoing Hooks and I think that's a interesting useful thing to be able to do something with anticipating it we would base this kind of in the same places that we have the mail trigger hooks so Jay you dropped briefly did you have you looked like you were about to say something right when you dropped okay um anybody has any other thoughts please um go ahead and send them to the list but we'll take a look at um not burning a ridiculous amount of effort but seeing what we can what we can do with a small amount of effort to get an experiment rolling so um next topic I had I don't think is going to take a lot but maybe I'll be surprised we've got a bunch of names of lists that we direct people to send bug reports to that are just no longer self-descriptive Django project data tracker projects a little bit better Django project though doesn't really mean anything to people that aren't like deeply on the inside um I would like to do a cleanup around"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "where we scrape all of these things away with redirects until enough time has gone by that it doesn't matter but what we start advertising is just simply um tools help at so we could bike shed the name the tools team spend a little bit of time kicking around names and tools help is what we landed on um as the thing that is most likely to cause people to know when to use that versus just normal support at ietf.org so thoughts on this idea yep nobody's screaming about it we'll just go ahead and go down this path Ryan you want to talk about the IMR reports sure um so this item is just to kind of communicate that we're doing some work on um moving some Legacy reports so there's some Legacy progress reports which are monthly reports that live at the address and the document here um that contain information about draft actions group actions and some mailing list information number of posts and subscribers um and these reports were produced with some rather old Pearl and Python scripts um that would periodically fail when the underlying systems were updated so there's work being done to move the reports into the appropriate systems data tracker and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "mail archive where they can be um easier maintained so that'll be done and then this page will be updated to link to the new locations for the for the monthly data anyone know of any uses of the IMR reports that what we're doing here would disrupt any use cases that we haven't covered anybody remember what IMR originally stood for yeah okay um into the FYI section um some of these we should probably have promoted up into the hot topics but so we'll go through them a little more slowly than we might otherwise have um the infrastructure strategy topic the the RFI has been released it closes at near the end of the month hopefully everybody's aware of it um if anybody knows of somebody that they think should be sending us an opinion on what we should be doing make sure that they're aware of it so that we have the best input we have that we can get available to us at the end of the RFI and we start moving into the RFP phase for our Wiki migrations from track into Wiki JS um Greg has reported that we are nearing the end of the content migration effort Jay calls out Victor trust is raised a question about how we're licensing things and tracking attributions and problems of that nature um if people haven't had a chance to read the the last minute update to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "notes give those a skim right quick and if anybody has any questions or wants to have a conversation about what's happening now um go ahead and jump in all right I'll go ahead and move forward for the data tracker um the report form is the same as what we've had before quite a bit of activity since our January meeting with the the five releases focusing on the the three points that are listed in in the message there a few extra other bug fixes in addition to those with those really framed up the um the larger parts of the efforts that went in we're going to finish out the media impacting issues and then spend our time between now and the next meeting focusing hard on finishing the postgres work setting it down then queuing up the move to Django 4 which we expect to happen right after postgres this is becoming much more important as we are starting to lose dependencies and have to pin to unsupported versions of those dependencies as they are dropping support for Django 2. from our upcoming work um Michael already brought up that we've got the API draft submission going through the asynchronous tooling that we built we're hoping to add the basically update the the GUI submission endpoint to use that async back end as well and hand hold the people through the submission experience change so that there's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "as little confusion as possible this is something that we're hoping to have deployed before we get to the heavy crunch of submission for 116. the rest of that I'll let people read all of those dots are fairly big blocks of work if anybody has any questions about data tracker and that'd be a good time to jump in casara lets you call out anything from the next five blocks that you want to um bring up in real time no I don't have anything to bring up any questions so I added a note issue 339 for bib XML Services is blocking for the RPC for the publication of rfcs it looks like a trivial issue and um for for the bridge here it the target URL for references points to RFC versus info and so um it doesn't point to the info page and for us to redo all the references to get something published would take a whole lot of time so it would be wonderful if that could be fixed quickly so um if you follow the there's already a PR against that issue um I think it's scoped me a little bit a little bit too large um I've got a question back out to ribos about whether or not we can scope the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "change initially to the bib XML RFC data set where we know what Target should be we're fairly comfortable with what Target we have an answer for the short term for what Target should point to for some of the other data sets it's not quite so obvious yet and I suspect that the Global change would probably bring in Target values that pointed to the wrong thing I know that when we asked them to take the target attribute away earlier they were for instance pointing to the archive text for internet drafts instead of data tracker so um so yeah we're we're going to continue to push getting this resolved as quickly as we can so this is I guess just to make sure this is a a the train has stopped and no rfcs will be published until we straighten this out level bug that's correct okay if I have anything else we want to bring up about the XML service author tools xmlrc the whack day website Ryan's here if anybody has anything they want to ask about the male archive service otherwise you can take the report he has um in there as red which would bring us to any other business"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:04",
    "text": "anybody have anything else that they would like to discuss today once again thanks everyone for their time um the the conversations on these calls are very important for the tools team as we're moving forward and I really appreciate the level of Engagement that we get from from our community members and making this making this all go in the right direction so we'll see you online and our next tools call is right before 116. so we'll see you then thank you and bye-bye"
  }
]
