[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:22",
    "text": "sir [Music] can somebody please close the door at the back so let\u0027s start welcome you have all reached the lsv our working group session so for the next 90 minutes we\u0027re going to be discussing that topic so let\u0027s first start off with the at the beginnings here so a few things actually happened now before going into the content let\u0027s first do some administrator so we do have a jabber scrap we also have immunitech it parish thank you for that so the minutes we\u0027ll be taking in either part it\u0027ll note or whatever the thing is called if you would like to contribute which would be very appreciate and please you know add your comments particularly with names and so on words just to make sure everything is done correctly so you have seen a note well already a few times if going from the assumption that you attended at least one session already if not retesting be aware of that anything you say and do actually is part of the ITF you know community here so before we step into the today\u0027s agenda so this is what we have set up "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:23",
    "text": "here so first we\u0027re gonna have like of you know like a few short notes on what happened in the last three months that\u0027s going to be followed up with an update of you know with the latest document of the bgp SPF you know in Alice we are then we\u0027re gonna have like three different updates to do with late release you know discovery protocol followed with the updates from I Triple E on the tlvs for LS VR and also with LTP v2 in the progress onward actually exactly yes so that is your gender for today any questions anything that we need to you know swap around or discuss additionally okay now let\u0027s go onwards so if you look into where we are you know at this point in time and you know from where we start I think we our deliverables based upon the shorter are like in a reasonably good progress we have a demo already available for the a lot of e we also have done a working group last call on the bgp SPF document that went to cast foley this document has very recently been updated so i was waiting for that for creating the shepherd right up and pushing it onwards the document already actually also had some directorate reviews there was a routing directorate reviewed which came back with some issues and those have been addressed in the latest version so maybe you can actually say a few more words later on in his update on where we are with you know with the comments from the routing Directorate now we addressed those and the obviou actually also gave us like I get ready to go pass here so everything is in good shape for the you know at this point in time for the for the Shepherd right up then also in the last couple of weeks we act we had an update on the applicability draft so we will be doing a working group last call on that one very soon after the IETF this meeting here and then close that thing down also and push it together with the BGP SPF document for further processing now also what we have seen in the last you know couple of weeks is we have seen some increased progress with the l3 DL documents and beyond the base specification we actually are doing some further in a work to do with security signing and so onwards with some automation and configuration elements of it and also to do with you know for the technology itself to help out on services running on top of bgp SPF hasn\u0027t an underlay for example and initially when we started with this work attack so from the ldbl perspective it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:23",
    "text": "actually had some properties which went beyond the lldp v2 v1 technology which required us to work on something like that which you know included for example things like you know a big ramp you size a better handling of fragmentation re assemblies it implemented like a push model instead of like a political kind of update and it also had some improved rapid recovery technology involved there now that actually triggered of also some programs in the work on LTP v2 and take these particular elements you know into account for further progress also and work upon the l-ltp v2 technology itself for which you\u0027re going to be hearing like further updates from Paul in this session here so this way we are right now so any questions any anything else before we start with the first session okay good afternoon guys I\u0027m gonna give a quick update on bgp SPF the draft version six was submitted right around the end of September first week of October working group last call has been successfully done we did get reviews we have incorporated that in the draft implementations are now available so as part of the last call at least the working group last call there were comments where folks came in and said hey would be nice to sort of provide a mechanism to mark the node and at least say if the nodes not capable of acting as a transit or cannot participate in SPF and we we have incorporated this mechanism through the Status TLV that was already present so we do now mark the node and that would allow the node to appropriately participate within the SPF itself there are we did also receive lots of needs and I think will take care of that in version 7 that is going to be post posted post IETF from an implementation update standpoint we now have at least one BGP implementation that is fully conformant we do have another open source implementation that\u0027s in works specifically on FRR and we have at least three operators who are looking to sort of start playing around "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:26",
    "text": "with the code base in the lab from the update standpoint the yang model for this Safi is also defined fairly straightforward mechanism from the modeling standpoint we want to start working on this models draft we think we should have a common model for LS and SPF and we\u0027ll take that work pretty soon we\u0027ll publish the draft out do we wanna as part of this new effort we also want to write in protocol implementation draft and an experience strap that comes along with the implementation from an implementation perspective we have now an implementation from arcus done by Pushpa sheesh pretty much covers all the sections of the draft there was from an implementation standpoint and I think we discussed this at the last IETF to a challenge in generating a remote router ID because we do not have a hello mechanism that it\u0027s establishes the edges in seas and as part of that as part of this draft we have sort of punted that either using lldp or l3 DL and or else you can statically configure that and sort of build up the efficiencies so that took care of it again from an intro up standpoint when you receive the routes and when you install this routes into rib as the drafts suggest we do give this Safi a preference over ipv4 unicast and ipv6 unicast and that\u0027s all the problem pretty much from competing Safi standpoint from an implementation testing point of view we have made sure we have enabled it with both ipv4 ipv6 as well as SPF Safi and seems to be working just fine a little bit of a test details on the test setup that we have tried this Safi we\u0027ve used standard Claus each point apology 10k a v4 and v6 routes with 32 a ecmp so you\u0027re looking at 320 K paths for v4 and v6 he will start tested peering was done in band between leaf and spine the early convergence numbers we have gotten suggest no particular convergence deviation from iGPS in fact this is turning out to be a little bit on a better side that pretty which means that from a convergence standpoint the southeast holding up pretty well by next ITF and in the implementation update Raph will be posting some numbers as of with respect to how many updates were generated and do we see any optimized behavior here a little bit of details on implementation to that\u0027s done on FRR again it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:27",
    "text": "implemented by Santosh from VMware office a fee support for the BGP is pretty much done a packet and code decode support is also done he is actively trying out ten code D codes to make sure it\u0027s conformant with darkus implementation the SPF computation is work in progress and post SPF computations that are out downloads would be the other part of the work that remains on this implementation but we are actively working towards interoperability two implementations are going to be out there so that\u0027s all I have from the traffic update any questions rowella you said you have a young document we are working on a yang document okay so it\u0027s not ready no and in that same time I think your other drafts you said you wanted to write yes I want to write an implementation spec and our protocol experience back can you show the slide so I think one more oops where did it go yep Pro implementation draft what is that two different documents probably one would talk about specifically an implementation specific details on an interim Interop side and the second would probably talk about how you would what are the implications as you start to deploy this as a new technology within the cross networks and that one is different from the applicability yes unless you want us to write one draft and cover them I would have to see the concepts with that second one sounds near closer okay just watch me work with those are thank you AC Linda I just want to say that we tried for this base specification we tried to keep the amount of function low we didn\u0027t want to put all the bells and whistles that are in a GPS in this especially since you already have the richness of BGP policy that you could apply anyplace but if people see things that they think should be in this base spec it isn\u0027t yeah III as we were going through the implementation I had one thing in my mind and I\u0027ll discuss with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:28",
    "text": "the implementers you know let us know if there\u0027s something something we\u0027d like for instance we decided we purposely didn\u0027t put areas in because we didn\u0027t think we needed them and we didn\u0027t think the use case the initial use case needed them so that would be saying that we are in our borrows comment about the protocol experience we had that was a requirement for new protocols now we haven\u0027t done a new protocol for a long time we got a couple of them coming so you know back in the old days I remember there was these you know in order in order for a new protocol to get the protocol specification published you needed the protocol experience or maybe that was just to go from standards maybe that was to just go from Pro yeah that\u0027s what it was it was to go from proposed standard so we\u0027re doing one better than that I guess we\u0027re doing that initially the protocol experienced thank you anybody else yeah and just as the last point we we could probably solace it a working your feedback to that point I mean there\u0027s so much confusion within clause that a protocol experienced draft would just help but I mean if you want to you want to bypass that happy to do that yeah thank you okay [Music] hi I\u0027m Randy I\u0027m from Marcus also that just email address is older than Cisco um and so and Rob also works for artists so this is conspiracy um this is actually a sympathy play I have to work with care every day okeydoke l3 DL it\u0027s this this is the fourth version and it hasn\u0027t changed much so just a quick review remember the primary goal is topology discovery for layer three okay then the principle customer is RK or an AC etc etc SPF but I will reveal some other uses okay just a review is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:29",
    "text": "and you\u0027re not gonna let me move huh it\u0027s layer 2 protocol to get layer 3 data across so here\u0027s what we\u0027re talking about down here and I will not get into this time how it pushes it up to SPF because it\u0027s boring so it\u0027s just a layer 2 protocol single links at a time it\u0027s not a routing protocol it merely discovers the addresses on the layer to link the layer 3 addresses on the point-to-point link and announces him to each other what\u0027s new details ok so want to be clear about PDU retransmission the question is should apd you be retransmitted if so it must be sent as the identical set of data grams as the original transmission and the transmission sequence number informs the receiver that it is the same one the sequence numbers are knots okay so every PDU which is composed of lots of frames as this magic number it\u0027s sequential it\u0027s obvious okay and if a Datagram a Datagram not the PDU but a from one of the data grams in a PD you fails checksum verification drop it on the floor the sender will retransmit the PDU and the receiver can reassemble it right reassembly is if you remember TCP it\u0027s pretty dissimilar okay there was an Oracle there were two cases of authorization failure authorization in open and authorization in a non open PDU that formed an Oracle that you could tell what the PD you type was by the error so therefore now they\u0027re both one just failure just security nut stuff okay the transport layer can handle rather large PD use and it\u0027s really pretty clearly delineate delineated a Datagram can be 2 to the 24th of them 2 to the 16 the octet syn a Datagram except it has to fit probably in the Neath ernet frame so if you see Ethernet frames that good you\u0027ve got different glasses than I do ok so it kind of looks like this these are datagrams ok with that transmission sequence number Datagram length etc checksum reassemble them and into PD you just like we do with the TCP ok and why "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:35",
    "text": "not use TCP I mean why reinvent TCP it\u0027s because we don\u0027t know the IP addresses of anybody we\u0027re discovering the IP addresses we\u0027d love to use TCP we\u0027d even put it over TLS so it\u0027s a cheap TCP like protocol with state and all that stuff over layer two okay reassembly transmission with back off BTUs or acknowledged long-lived sessions okay it\u0027s fully stateful session per peer so there\u0027s no chatter okay it\u0027s hard state it\u0027s got graceful restart state may be resumed on failure because in every PD you there\u0027s a serial number so if I lose the session I can reopen and say hey this is the last serial number I digested you want to take up where we left off okay duplicate Datagram and PD you detection retransmission on timeout etc one of the things that\u0027s been enhanced in this version is they need a peak in the PD you that\u0027s announcing and withdrawing addressing at endpoints the actual protein of this protocol the encapsulation flags are now you can announce and withdraw single encapsulations at a time you can say whether this is a primary address on an interface you can say whether it\u0027s an underlay an overlay address and this will get exciting in another 15 minutes you can say whether it\u0027s a loopback okay for each encapsulation for each address okay there\u0027s explicit acts with errors error type code zero is just an act everything else is in error vendor extension hasn\u0027t changed okay we now have as I think it was Gunther said one Python three open source one is in golang that we\u0027re hoping to open up it\u0027s going into our product a false within drop maybe in Vancouver we\u0027d like to start thinking about moving to weg last call okay I can take question at this point otherwise I\u0027m going to go into the security and signing stuff and so forth AC AC Linda I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:40",
    "text": "think we better working group last call this as it seems to get bigger every time we don\u0027t it seems to get more function or capability hasn\u0027t changed much in the last version well okay I just what happened really in this version is a bunch of advice about what to do like how to do the retransmit et cetera et cetera that got exposed by a new developer implementing the PD use have changed negligibly Tony 20p juniper so did you give any consideration to DCC P I mean the whole work has been done already to run TCP or UDP it\u0027s published RFC\u0027s everything we did do you mean the I Triple E trying to learn because it\u0027s in its ITF RSC GCC peak that has been done it\u0027s basically TCP or UDP fully published with all the corner cases so I wonder why you you were not looking at that stuff maybe you missed them maybe there was something missing just a question in the room because I see the same work pretty much yeah if it runs over UDP doesn\u0027t it run over IP do it you haven\u0027t got an IP address it\u0027s a layer 2 protocol because you don\u0027t know layer 3 yet if I knew the layer 3 address I wouldn\u0027t use UDP I\u0027d use TLS so this is yeah this is yours thank you I think you fixed several of the retrack you fixed several the returns mission concerns I had with this thank your developer thank you yep yep yep he was rather picky by the way his name\u0027s Harsha he\u0027s not here but he beat me up every couple of days okay so if you remember from this last time you can go to Bess and neeraja extended it to do evpn without ARP snooping without all the crazy stuff that makes you throw that equipment away okay so go to Bess and senior ahsha\u0027s presentation on using this with two new PD use for e VPNs so I\u0027m way back when I raise the issue of security and operator said yeah we want security I said what\u0027s your threat model and the room was silent so I hypothesized a threat model and I said I\u0027m worried about people plugging lot poisoned laptops in worried about people plugging strange devices in etc etc so if you\u0027ll notice the PDUs have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:40",
    "text": "signal PDUs are signed or can be signed or may be signed to be more proper the open PD you may have a type of the authorization that\u0027ll be used the key that will be used to sign with the appropriate length of course okay the PDU is signed by the sender the open pd you had the public key the sender signs with the private key of course and the device sending the open can use one key for all links different keys for the blue links different keys for the pink links whatever we don\u0027t care okay that\u0027s a matter of configuration okay click there we go the open is generated on the sending device the private key never leaves the sending device this is reasonable normal key practice with trust on first use it\u0027s believed without question by the receiver so here\u0027s my public key you believe it it\u0027s used to verify all subsequent videos from the same sender so the sender is the same attacker you had yesterday that\u0027s tofu sorry you don\u0027t have to use tofu you could have PKA I based so the key is generated on the device and then the public key is sent to keep your key management infrastructure it is signed by whatever private key is no known in the system what the where the matching public key is on all the devices okay it\u0027s normal PK i stuff but don\u0027t be afraid it is not x.509 okay it just is that the key the public key is signed by a private key and that\u0027s it none of the rest of the x509 glorp you don\u0027t need it if you are an organization that has an x.509 infrastructure of course you can use x.509 enjoy okay every device though to do this must have burned in or distributed to it somehow the public key of the trust anchor of the PKI so it can verify it but this gives you fairly reasonable sign PDUs okay verify the two methods are indistinguishable the key in the open pin used to verify the signatures if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:42",
    "text": "it\u0027s PKI based it\u0027s just when you got the open pd you you could check that the key was authentic from then on you\u0027re cruising okay the choice of which type of Kings left to the operator and in fact they could mix and match the pink peers get tofu the blue peers get it PKI okay and we\u0027d like to request WG adoption would you like to do it here or an email email would be preferred I presume yeah okay so Oh question zon that one sorry some of us are security geeks so we wanted to have the darn thing reasonably securable you don\u0027t have to do it by the way you can have the key authorization type B zero and no security at all right sorry I didn\u0027t mention that um so the purpose here is 4k or NAC to be able to talk to BGP to each other okay let\u0027s remember why we\u0027re doing this so wouldn\u0027t it be nice if we could give Kher NAC the information they need to build their BG peace SPF session okay so huh so we have a PD you for building upper layer protocols and in this instance so it\u0027s it\u0027s a simple TLV with a protocol type an attribute count an attribute list and the attributes are the protocols want to provide the minimal set of parameters for bgp because open is going to exchange all the rest and you don\u0027t want to be in conflict with the parameters exchange in open because then you have two sources of truth and my mother always told me that\u0027s bad news because then you have to resolve okay so what are the minimum parameters for bgp open okay they are what my is my ass what\u0027s my peering address and what\u0027s the bgp authentication data okay and yes of course there\u0027s one for ipv6 okay and that\u0027s it that\u0027s all it is really done really stupid really simple and you can automatically create your bgp sessions questions it\u0027s not even from sewerage on there we go "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:45",
    "text": "John Scudder I\u0027m only coming to the mic because you called my name it\u0027s you know like anyway um no actually I don\u0027t have any questions I have your document queued up to read when I have something intelligent to say I\u0027ll say Edna okay you know so we\u0027ll do the we\u0027d like an adoption call on that too and then for dessert there is no internet draft on this but I want to show you an OP stack okay no protocol just an ops hack at layer 3 using l3 deal so the folks doing kubernetes etc etc have you know tours connected a rat full of servers and servers have you know they might have an ad or whatever and tons of micro services maybe a hundred of them on a server okay and we can use l3 DL to automatically build and discover this the simple thing would just be running a l3 DL on the server\u0027s external interfaces and on the tours and you\u0027d have an L 3 DL configuration to say inject those well that\u0027s fine now the tour knows to add us find those interfaces big what we do that\u0027s not very exciting so remember active and passive interfaces in is is nos PF okay where you can say that an interface is active excuse the juniper I believe that this is an active interface it sends and receives the protocol that\u0027s what\u0027s meant by active and it injects its l3 addressing into the protocol a passive interface it does not send and receive the protocol it\u0027s silent but it injects the l3 information into the protocol database so that was thank you the encapsulation flag for under and over we\u0027re going to use that whereas the underlay is passive and the overlay is active actually I think that\u0027s reversed but the underlay overlay terminology always confuses me but the overlay we\u0027re going to take all these interfaces SW 0 through 7 and inject them passively into l3 DL these interfaces are active now these interfaces know how to find "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:46",
    "text": "all of these interfaces and they can move around between servers between interfaces here they can be spawned they can die etc okay you can do multi-tenancy just do V ahrefs here do something like VX LAN here put the matching VRS up here and you have multi-tenancy okay so you can have a rack where her services are moving around etc and remember l3 DL is going to be very quiet it\u0027s only going to tell you when things change now you can turn up lair to live in this checking or not use it at all but if you want detection of failures in motion if you want to detect the server down within one second ten seconds or five minutes you can turn that on okay so you can have hundreds of micro services on a server 30 or 40 servers Iraq you can cross pods and racks can have service mobility and creation deletion micro service failure server failure etc it\u0027s dead quiet only changes are propagated and that\u0027s it hi Paul I so I think what you\u0027re saying is you really only need to one run one instance of vel 3dl then not for all of those ll or whatever that are the virtual ones in the overlay is that what you\u0027re saying yes and so if there\u0027s collisions with IP addresses or things how does that result or and you use the verse if it\u0027s multi-tenancy you will use verse l3 DL verbs etc okay so they can use the same address space that\u0027s what we mean by multi-tenancy right right that you and Sue are both using Network 10 right and so are those in different TLDs inside l3 DL or how do you combine them in l3 do I guess multiple free do instances oh so they are multi-tenancy you\u0027ll need another instance perverse there multiple ASIS but you only one run one lively instant liveness instance so they\u0027re not all doing hellos making sure they\u0027re alive or depends upon what you want to worry about being alive yeah no I\u0027m just yeah it\u0027s your choice and tuning it you\u0027re mentioning it\u0027s quiet and so that was the part I was trying to employ ah the two aspects to quiet first of all you tuned liveness for what you just like you tuned BFD but the protocol "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:47",
    "text": "only announces changes right and that\u0027s the big thing about quiet it\u0027s not going like is is and OSPF every 30 seconds hitting you on a hit with hammer right okay it\u0027s like bgp it\u0027s the only announcing changes and that\u0027s all I got so you better ask questions because I\u0027m well under time right yeah okay so at the last ITF we promise to produce a draft that showed how to write the lldp tlvs for the information that is needed to be exchanged for LS VR so that\u0027s what this draft is about again so you know why I was motivated as Randy just mentioned L SVR needs to get this information to bootstrap itself l through Yale does that uses TLB formats to do that lldp also uses tlvs and so what we\u0027re trying to do is define the tlvs that could be used by lldp to give L SVR of what it needs and also we\u0027re also one of the judges I had was to demonstrate how a ETF can define their own tlvs AC pointed out that there is already a draft in IDR where where that\u0027s been done so I wasn\u0027t aware of that which is but that\u0027s great but it does point out the need for coordination in the ITF on defining tlvs for lldp so l DP has a mechanism for organizations to define their own this is the format of that organizations can be vendors or they can be other standards organizations and you simply you stick in your o UI into the TLV itself and you have a subtype field that must be there and that subtype you need to manage so that\u0027s what the ITF would need to make sure if they\u0027re gonna create their own that they manage that space so in this draft what I did was strictly was go through l3 DL and try to look at the information that was being exchanged there and just simply create lldp tlvs for that with with some caveats and some things I\u0027ll talk about that so as I mentioned I didn\u0027t wasn\u0027t aware of the ACS draft and IDR so I thought this was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:48",
    "text": "maybe the first time but nonetheless again pointing IETF does need to manage these and perhaps it\u0027s RFC 5342 is place to do that yeah yes this is Susan Harrison this hat ID our co-chair it\u0027s an individual draft but it is worth a read as you\u0027re on the same thing yeah yeah I\u0027d already gave it a read and gave some comments back actually as well okay so let me talk a little bit about the design of these Tobs so till the TLV themselves have a bunch of fields in them I didn\u0027t define those fields just made a normative reference to l3 DL so things like the lle eye the attributes those in caps flags that we just looked at all those come from l3 DL as a normative and the I did not include the per TLV signatures that are in Elfie DL but that\u0027s kind of the the way elf and yell can define very large TLV so maybe a signature Portillo v makes sense here I think in lldp if we\u0027re gonna do signatures we need to do it across the entire set as opposed to inside each one we we have a limited space for TL v that\u0027s one of the that\u0027s one of the things we need to work with and so just some minor things I you know the the encapsulations for IP v4 and v6 I didn\u0027t include a count when you list multiple of them because the parser could figure that out and another thing that was important was we only want to try to run one instance of lldp here not an instance per interface or might be in an overlay underlay physical virtual and so the way to work around that was then to just add the lle I into each of the tlvs so we don\u0027t need to again run multiple instances of the protocol and so in order to get the full set of information that you need you probably have to send multiple of some of these tlbs and that\u0027s perfectly valid in in lldp you don\u0027t just have to have one of them you can send ten of the same type of l TLV just as long as they have different data and log it put together and so I guess the other important factor is to make this really work for LS VR probably need to use the lldp v2 which is going to allow you to send the amount of data that you might actually need here so that\u0027s expected and I\u0027ll be given another update on on the status of that protocol so again most of these are just strictly TLV formats now there was the attribute account and I noticed that got changed in Randy\u0027s latest draft so obviously I didn\u0027t track some of these changes but this would just be simply that attribute list the assumption would be we could fit that into a single TLV so we should really only have one of those not multiple of those my PV for or announcements would have the in caps "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:49",
    "text": "flags and the address and then of course you could replicate that as many times as you can to fit in the size of an LLB pto V so you might send multiple so we have a v6 as well we have the MPLS v4 the MPLS v6 I don\u0027t think we need to look at them in details but the way the the fields in there are structured again are either normatively referenced to l3 DL or they were slightly modified to remove the count field or something okay so that\u0027s sort of the main thing in the draft it doesn\u0027t really tell you how to process them or pack them or anything like that it\u0027s just trying to define them and if we need to sign these things we need to probably figure out maybe we should create a whole new l2 or TLB just for the signature we talked a little bit about that and clearly if we want to pursue this there\u0027s interest in this we need to fix the clarifications and get it up to date with l3 DL so so any questions all right Randy Bush Garrett what\u0027s the rhythm in other words how often will I hear this stuff and um how much payload do I really get okay and that\u0027ll be covered in this presentation where we talk about lldp v2 so all that other with the drought is just defining the payloads that that you need so this presentation is going to tell you about the latest status of project 802 2.1 a b d h if anybody needs a secret decoder ring on the letters meet me in the hallway I can explain a Capitol upper and lowercase they are significant so that\u0027s what we\u0027re calling lldp v2 so first of all I\u0027m giving an update on a standards project and the other SDO this is just my personal view kind of need to slow this slide it\u0027s not an official liaison okay if you want to do those the past letters back and forth this is much more efficient way to do it if you trust me so that\u0027s my discrepancy okay um so I\u0027ve already given an update in the previous one so I there\u0027s some background material lots of links of things that you can get history on I didn\u0027t repeat him here and so that\u0027s the first link the second thing is the project has been approved this official project now it was proved in September the most recent technical presentation is at this link and I have incorporated a lot of it here and I we just talked about the draft and we\u0027re gonna be doing a press where the 802 is gonna do a press release here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:50",
    "text": "about the project kind of a call for participation we proved that last week so I don\u0027t know when that\u0027ll go out probably in the next couple of weeks or so or who knows so one of the big changes since last IETF just we added terminology and definitions you know trying to get it ready for actually starting the documentation there\u0027s a thing called a manifest which is a new TLV which effectively describes all the other TL B\u0027s we tweaked it a little bit so that we could get the the set of data that you\u0027re going to exchange to be bigger basically and and that needs to be tuned that\u0027s there\u0027s nothing that\u0027s up in the air on how it\u0027s a trade-off between you know kind of collisions reliability and how much data you want to send and then there was sort of a worst case scenario shared me can\u0027t brain-dead thing where you might have multiple people in the same MAC address you know we I\u0027m not gonna cover that it but needless to say that corner case has been evaluated and the protocol survives that no problem so that\u0027s the that\u0027s the worst case scenario you shouldn\u0027t have to worry about okay so a lot of words on here and the next couple slides that there\u0027s some good pictures that maybe make it a little more obvious so the goal here of course the main goal is to send more data than can sit and fit in a single Ethernet frame so the biggest restriction with lldp is that everything that you had to send was in one frame you couldn\u0027t actually send multiple frames of different stuff that that wasn\u0027t the way the protocol it was designed to be ultra simple and so obviously there\u0027s big restrictions in that so now we\u0027ve tweaked that you can send more than one frame but we\u0027ve tried to do it in an elegant way that is backward compatible and doesn\u0027t increase the quote chatter or amount of data that that needs to be sent so we want to support the the ability to limit you know that also we do the opposite so in in 802 there\u0027s a thing called time-sensitive networking which is debt net in here at layer 3 and there\u0027s a lot of like super time scheduled stuff and we don\u0027t want to we want to be able to actually shrink an lldp packet if we wanted to in order to get them to fit in the timing so this this LOD pv2 actually works for that as well so it\u0027s a separate sort of a separate what do you want to call it benefit or requirement ok so an important aspect of this in our approach is that an upgraded version to person can still talk to a version one person but obviously only sharing the the first PDU because the other stuff that the like he wouldn\u0027t know how to do it but so you have basic connectivity you have the same level of functionality and an existing lldp implementation but you have the ability to send more data now if you support an enhancement and so that\u0027s important because we don\u0027t have to just upgrade the world or deploy something shared media is supported and you know obviously we want to make sure everything we send we can account for so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:52",
    "text": "the other important thing another objective was we want to support what we call receiver pacing so a lot of you know really really small IOT type devices do things like lldp right so we don\u0027t want to have them have to swallow a big giant database every time you send it I know OSPF and is may have had some problems like that in the past so what we do is we allow the receiver of this chunk of a series of data to be able to request them at the pace that they can so that means I can stop very cheap implementation of lldp without a ton of buffering and things like that need it and we don\u0027t want to increase the chatter any more than lldp v1 so there is no increase its you simply periodically transmit exactly like you do in llv p1 if there\u0027s more changes in the extension data then the receiver will request that there are some other optimizations you know that we we looked at as well or looking at that could be considered the project scope was written in a way that we could do I think some extra things if we really needed to here without too much feature creep and then the whole authentication security like I said I had punted it in the previous presentation on tlvs but we can certainly address that year by defining some secure TL ease that that would you know provide some kind of integrity across the whole set okay just a quick reminder so so I\u0027ll repeat again super simple protocol think of it we like to think of it as you\u0027re exchanging a database I have a database which is just a set or maybe a data set is a better word of tlvs I have a set of TVs and I just want to tell my neighbor about them and if I change something I want to tell them there\u0027s a change and so what happens is periodically you just go out like an in period you can be like thirty seconds you would go out and you would just and here\u0027s my latest database now the receiver again very simple when he receives the packet from you and it checks sums out and everything\u0027s good he throws away the old database and replaces it with what he just got well he actually compares first to make sure something changed if something changed he replaces it and he tells us higher layer protocol something changed that\u0027s it and then when you change something you immediately go ahead and transmit your PDU you don\u0027t wait for the periodic you know transmission so you can get a rapid update if you will but you know things settle down and just basically you\u0027re just exchanging a database so the version two is doing the same thing it\u0027s just that the database now will consist of more than one packet and so now we have to deal with how do we know we got all the packets and blah blah blah so there\u0027s this is where you get a lot of words and they\u0027re basically think of the the original lldp packet as a foundation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:52",
    "text": "PDU we call it so the original version one is is the same as the version one today it just has one additional PT LV and the additional TLB is what we call a manifest TLV and so what that is is effectively a description cryptographic hash check sums whatever of all of the other extension PDUs okay and so when a version one guy receives this he\u0027s not gonna know what that TOB is so he just ignores it he actually stores it but he doesn\u0027t process he doesn\u0027t know what it is so it doesn\u0027t do any he doesn\u0027t act on it when a version 2 guy gets it he\u0027s gonna look at that that manifest he\u0027s gonna go okay I\u0027ve got let\u0027s say seven more PDUs out there let me make sure the ones I have matched the check sums in this manifest and if they match then you\u0027re done everything\u0027s good so I just received that one packet if they don\u0027t match then that receivers gonna go out and request to receive the missing PDUs so again the whole database it\u0027s basically a foundation PDU plus these extension PDUs and yet if you don\u0027t have a manifest at the act just like a regular PU now the number of additional extensions PDUs that I can add to LLB pd d b2 is is limited by the size of a TLB so a TLB he currently is limited to 512 bytes so that puts a restriction on how big we can make the whole thing and that\u0027s we\u0027re playing with the size of the manifest gives us a bigger set or smaller set and so anytime a data changes in one of these extension PDUs the manifest would get updated that would get sent over the receiver would notice that it\u0027s changed and then he would ask for the changes basically so now we have extension PDUs these would be ignored by a version one so they wouldn\u0027t even see them via different ethertype or we\u0027ve talked about various ways to do that and then it would look somewhat like a version one PDU but it would have some identifier on which extension it is and it\u0027s sent as a unicast so lldp is multicast but if you if you\u0027re you know real familiar with 802 standards it uses one of the special multicasts which is used to just talk to other bridges so it doesn\u0027t flood through the network it is stopped by every bridge so it acts a little bit like a unicast but if you had a true shared media like a old repeater or something in there it would go to every every person the extension P to use the new ones that we\u0027re sending our unicast so those would not flood anywhere or not get propagated any further than they need to and then we have a time to live so when you when you in lldp when you tell your neighbor about your your your latest state there\u0027s a TTL that\u0027s associated with that that means that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:52",
    "text": "data is good for a certain amount of time after that time you throw everything away but or it gets updated refreshed so it\u0027s again really pretty straightforward that TTL will apply to all the data across all the extensions ok and so now we have another another packet which is the request for PU so this is one two person asks for all the extensions he asks for the updates you know a lot of text here I don\u0027t know that it\u0027s overly important to go through the minutiae here but if you have questions about it we can I think what\u0027s probably best is to look at the the actual protocol here so here we have two lldp agents on a wire the one on the left let\u0027s say he makes a change he reconfigures for some reason LS PR adds adds an interface that\u0027s gonna change one of the tlvs in the in the overall database which is gonna cause the manifest to change and so we\u0027re gonna have what we call something to change local which triggers me to send a PD you out and I\u0027ll tell my neighbor now all I\u0027m gonna send is the the old-fashioned foundation PD you but it\u0027s gonna have a different manifest so that receivers going to get the packet he\u0027s gonna look at it\u0027s different than what he currently had and so he\u0027s gonna go okay something changed and he\u0027s oh it\u0027s in the manifest something\u0027s different in the manifest now he\u0027s gonna go about the process deciding exactly what is he what\u0027s missing which extension is missing and then he\u0027ll send a request for that extension and then you know as he can consume them the sender will unicast the the the information back and then eventually you go back to everything settles down the change the configuration change has been propagated and you go back to normal lldp operation so that\u0027s that\u0027s effectively the version two pretty pretty straightforward so I guess Randy to answer your question we have the same lldp transmission we in the tio V\u0027s I proposed in the previous draft we only run one instance we\u0027re not running an instance of lldp for every virtual thing above us so we\u0027re just running one instance on the physical wire because we can distinguish the information and any things are only a lot of things are only sent when you make a big change like you\u0027re saying whenever I make a change the specific PDU that held that change be requested but you have this the same periodic like 30 second of the single foundation PD you just like lldp one so it shouldn\u0027t be when things aren\u0027t really tweaking and changing all the time you shouldn\u0027t really see any additional overhead than you used to and when there is a change then there\u0027ll be a little flurry of things and that\u0027s it so any other questions on how the protocol works or what what we\u0027re trying "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:52",
    "text": "to do pretty simple next steps is to continue to the technical contributions I mean love to have an open-source implementation there\u0027s somebody to work with on you know taking the open-source lldp and and prototyping this these particular changes to it so we can better evaluate that yeah I I don\u0027t personally have the time but I\u0027d love to love to do it if I had the time yeah a see a synonym Cisco so this is good this is happening independent of LS VR and and hit ends and since you\u0027ve done it have you gotten like other use cases people saying they\u0027re happy that this is being done yeah good good point yeah I mean Alice VR sort of stimulated it because you had the immediate need but there have been other people that have come up and and and already asked for it so there\u0027s there\u0027s another standard going on a tour 2.1 qcj which it does a provider backbone bridging you know I said to VLAN mapping thing and it\u0027s a little protocol that sits on top of lldp as well and they have a need to send more data than you can fit I didn\u0027t talk about some of the other things I mean general there\u0027s a lot of vendors that have made a lot of their own tlvs and every protocol that we keep inventing in dot one we keep adding another TLV to negotiate it so so the it\u0027s it\u0027s definitely a need so yeah and this is done in the general sense right it wasn\u0027t just done for lol SBR but we think that was one of the key people that could use it we\u0027re yeah so again we\u0027re in the process of saying okay we\u0027re going to make changes to the current standard to version two what are those changes the next step is to actually create what we call an editors draft or an individual contribution individual draft because there hasn\u0027t been an editor assigned yet but usually that\u0027s the person who puts that together and and I welcome a etf participation I what I should have put on here was a list of when our next meeting is and how you can how you can participate care hey K because I as I listen to this I think it\u0027s an amazing thing and I think the work should be carried out I didn\u0027t I I get a feel as I look at it is it this is two different transports at at a very different level and I think we can progress both of them in parallel as long as we have a common TLB layers and then just point it to the industry if you will for lack of the better terms to see who wants what kind of transport they need depending on how the fabrics are being built but I think that\u0027s the way to code that\u0027s pretty super sure I certainly wasn\u0027t proposing that this is in all a exclusive alternative what\u0027s going on with l3 DL now there\u0027s gonna be other use cases for this as well what we understand from talking to various "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:52",
    "text": "operators is they\u0027re already running lldp anyway so why not you know let\u0027s try to try to add to it but there certainly was an intention to be an exclusive method and then I guess yeah as I mentioned IETF people can participate we\u0027re in entering the early stages of what we call a task group ballot and it\u0027s up to the editor we can accept comments from anybody it\u0027s not to get to the later stages where it kind of gets a little bit more closed and membership required blah blah blah but early on there\u0027s no restrictions for participating so you know Philip II can do that yeah thanks for the update and both you and I think hear something like you said the same thing that you know to one maybe eh so you can see all the work and and through the L our two alternatives who basically do the same thing right something like you both said the same thing no well for carrying the information that you want to exchange for LCR I think there\u0027s two ways to you have two protocols that could meet that objective that Elfi DL does some other things as well but yeah like the liveness alright so the question that I want to ask just because we need to do some coordination going forward and all this stuff so you just said that there\u0027s some extra this some extra working so Metro features an LP DL that are not covered here so the the inverse question is does LD PV to satisfy the requirements that we need for LS we are are the things missing that we get rid of through the other we don\u0027t get with LD P b2 or not what since you quote in mean cute pretend like I\u0027m just I don\u0027t know you said you stood there just and this is this question not necessarily for for you Paul or for anyone else it\u0027s more question to the you know to the working groups want to understand where we think we are so now he\u0027s not answering now he\u0027s looking the other way look since he quoted Mikael written arcus um I was simply saying they\u0027re two different transports and therefore two different semantics as long as we have common TLB definitions and set of TL ways that go onto different transports depending on which fabric wants what transport and like all said some fabrics to deploy lldp today some fabrics very deploy already L so I think working do taking both work in parallels yeah so what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:52",
    "text": "you\u0027re saying is that LS we are could use what are the other or both right I think you missed darkus and IJ um they are not the same TVs but right that can be okay if they\u0027re the same semantics it\u0027s not clear that they\u0027re saying semantics because we haven\u0027t really dug into this okay and the semantics include not just the content of the TL V\u0027s but what happens in is their state and how the two states are maintained at both end and what\u0027s the story about failures etc so I think and I\u0027m not saying good or bad I\u0027m saying we haven\u0027t looked so to answer your question I think we don\u0027t know is it the only answer I could give certainly I okay but right so we creative at some point we knew something more right since there\u0027s already collaboration corporation you know it would be nice I didn\u0027t notice that you changed the tlvs I think you said at some point that in the other presentation that it was basically the same thing you\u0027re actually normally normatively referencing the 3d I\u0027ll graph for the definition of all the all the fields but you took things out like counts or something like that does that mean that we can\u0027t just define the TV\u0027s once and use them in both protocols no I think you could define the T Ovie\u0027s once and use them in both places I just and I could provide this calm feedback to the l3 Li there I don\u0027t think there was a need for some of the feeling that the Ovie\u0027s but I certainly could have mapped it better or more identical and that there\u0027s definitely a different packing problem when you look at the overall set of if I have 50 IP interfaces that I want to advertise here the way they get packed in lldp is gonna look different than the way they got packed in in a TLB it might be one TLV in l3 DL but they might be three or four tlvs in lldp that have the same format so no I mean I think it\u0027s possible to define potentially defined identical tlvs the security one I was like again I\u0027m not entirely sure we want to sign every TLV that that\u0027s a discussion to have that\u0027s probably an aspect of the way lldp packs its tlvs because it has a restricted side so I don\u0027t want to waste however many bytes signing every single one of them I\u0027d rather sign the block of them so that\u0027s the difference that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:52",
    "text": "probably the one main difference that I see in the TLV formats otherwise I think they could be identical okay ready again excuse me Alvaro is he\u0027s got a real estate problem yeah so first care you don\u0027t have a real estate problem because we can pick out so the constraints on what happens to the TL visa now you pack them yeah okay so all um you know I\u0027ll do my best to make sure I announced to lsv are when we\u0027re you know making drafts available of our protocol and again Oh inviting people to participate in the process and of course coming to our meetings is fine too that\u0027s great and I can announce that as well whatever you guys want me to do there just let me know okay any other questions okay well I think we actually you know are are at the end here and I also you know between you know the common dlv kind of structure I think it\u0027s an important thing because so what we have seen for example you know one of the complexities I want to avoid is between some of the you know IGP tlvs being constructed and then the encoding with BG pls involve to it it\u0027s image sometimes to have like a magical decoder ring as was mentioned before it would be very nice if we can actually avoid that and for that you know I would really you know appreciate collaboration between the two different transport mechanisms it would make life a lot easier going forward and also I think for vendors having something common it\u0027s very appreciated so if nobody else has anything to say then I think we I\u0027m giving you back about 20 minutes yes okay I one last comment I I I don\u0027t think we got a chance to address it while Randy was presenting l3 DL but we have an implementation for l3 DL that is fully compliant and I just wanted the working group to know so happy to work with if there\u0027s any other implementation out there would be happy to do summit drop testing okay thank you who has the last blue sheet there should be one more clipboard okay I\u0027ll come get it it\u0027s good okay that\u0027s it folks thank you "
  }
]