[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "good morning folks i think we're gonna wait maybe until five past the hour but welcome to the tap saturn to everybody who's already here and i think aaron is going to join us a little bit later he had a conflict but yeah feel free to share your video and meet your mic if you want to say hello hey guys oh can't hear you see maybe it's on my end hello hi hi hi i'm from china i wanted to work with you okay and i also write a draft yeah another uh yeah another welcome group okay so this is the tab center room uh so we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "are going to be discussing uh the three drafts that we have been working on in the tabs working group but if you want to follow along you are very welcome to do so i wanted to change my draft to to this work group you know my drafter is a yeah another worker group i wanted to change i wanted to replace the two tps and could you please give me some suggestions my i i wanted to paste my uh draft address so if you would like the working group to see your draft first i suggest you send an email to the tabs mailing list which i assume you already found yes you need a pointer because i don't know your draft yet but i'm happy to take a look but you should send it to the mailing list and high folks we're gonna take uh until five past the hour and then see if we have quorum to get started you know which meetings i'm talking about you me i i just send the uh send my draft by email uh yeah so you would send an email to the mailing list and explain like what your draft is about and how it relates to tabs and then the working group could take a look at it and maybe express an opinion on it i i i also wanted to work together with you you know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "i read the uh tabs introducing yeah okay this is also my risk research interested okay cool uh so we are currently working on three different drafts that you are potentially going to hear about today and um yeah if you had any thoughts on those drafts you're also welcome to send an email to the list and share your feedback on the draft and we also have a github where we are collecting issues we're gonna be probably looking at quite a bit when the meeting is end uh can can you please give me some more detail i want to paste my draft address it's also about a quick and tcp oh quick okay i mean i can stay for a few more minutes and see if i can help you along but um i'm not sure i can address everything hey go ahead i can still not hear you unfortunately i'm not sure can you hear me now yes i can hear you now as i hit yeah jian i think i've asked you to write your queries in a mail and send it to the chairs and me uh i'm the real director and then we can sort it out your questions from there because i'm kind of getting i'm not sure like i understand what exactly you want so please write an email to the chairs tap shares and taps eddy um i i'll send the email address and a private chat to you so you can send it to me and the chairs and we'll take it from there sounds good thank you zade okay so we're five past the our we have a few folks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "who joined uh yeah i'm not sure if we maybe want to wait a little bit longer in case we get more people but at least it looks like we have a bunch of pr's and issues that we can be discussing today thank you all for being so active on the github so uh do you want me to share the github like i've done before uh yes that would be appreciated i wasn't sure if people were sort of still waiting um i'm just trying yeah yeah that's fine"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "we can still wait i just wanted to check and we had a bunch of people who will be joining late aaron has a conflict for the first hour and um and it will be mobile brian will join for the middle hour so i assume that means half past until i have passed and um and i can't make but i hope we should still have a bunch of folks see colin gorey michael finish that it you can tell how long people need between meetings so who's joined from the iab meeting and he's not yet oh right there was a meeting right before this one which run late yeah i just got up so if if it's possible to have a look at the way the agenda requests are going in in future it's it's very hard to find the link for these meetings it doesn't appear i uh reply to the email again two days ago and there should have been a link in that email for some reason it's not appearing in the calendar entry that the data tracker generates it just lists the agenda okay that's strange i don't normally look at that calendar"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "i don't even know where to find it in a data tracker i only look at emails that sounds like a bug because it should absolutely have um oh should absolutely have a link okay i might have found a calendar all right so with 10 past the hour i suggest we get started looking at some of our issues tommy if you could please drive this uh the github again that would be sure very much appreciate it thanks yeah screen [Music] okay so here we have prs and we have the issues uh shall we start with the open pull requests yes i'm trying to see taken over the open pr's yeah okay um let's let's go newest to all this since some of the old ones may be trickier so i have what i assume is an approval from gory on this um had a little bit ago made some editorial suggestions for the implementation draft um and i tried to just apply those they're mainly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "just some clarifications yeah looks good to me at a glance yeah i guess the one kind of interesting thing is you know there are some suggestions about if you have this capacity profile maybe you want to pick a different path kyle was pointing out that scavenger that is it's a little bit weird to imply a path based on that um so i just kind of removed this advice um because normally it's like oh this is telling you to use lead bat um saying that you prefer a path with the highest available capacity is a bit odd so if someone has another suggestion for what we could say here we could also just try to revise the text rather than removing it so is capacity profile necessarily only about a path right it's not just so i don't remember who had kind of originally worked on this chunk here so i think that this is a bit restrictive i mean you could for example have a multi-path protocol and influence the decision of the scheduler in the number of paths that it uses if you know that a couple of paths have a larger rtt but you want to pull them all together to get more capacity and this might work well for scavenger for example sorry can you say that again um i was wondering what would we want to say here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "um yeah i mean the question is why do you want to why did you why do you want to remove it um so the original comment here which i agree um you know scavenger implies doing lead bat congestion control which is how we interpret it to essentially just say you'll take kind of whatever is not being used but you're going to defer to everything else yeah that's not the same as saying i'm going to try to find the path with the highest available capacity true because i i wouldn't i don't know let's say i have a device with you know wi-fi and sell and sell is more expensive and no one's using it right now and so a scavenger will just like start blasting all of his traffic that way because that has the most available capacity at the moment um yeah i'm wondering maybe more like capacity seeking yeah yeah but so yeah i'm wondering if you need a preference for a particular path here or we could just say something more generic about scavenger right right and like this entire section is just saying is like you can use this to prefer paths so do we even really need to say that there's a specific preference that scavenger implies or i mean i i i actually i don't think so i mean it's it's kind of the opposite of being having low latency right so in case of low latency you may want to lose only one path and that's the one with the lowest round trip time whereas in case of scavenger you may be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "able to handle uh more delay that comes from interleaving multiple paths so you have to reorder things on the receiver side and now stuff may take longer but that's that's kind of the trade-off sometimes when you pull multiple paths together so i would guess that this is a more appropriate behavior for scavenger type traffic now the way it's phrased is not great i have i agree with that i mean i think we can find readings here this might work can i oh yes is my back what we hear you whoa sorry yeah i was just trying to get many things working that i heard the conversation appearing i i think the text of 363 is wrong i i think this is prefer a path that supports the scavenger service isn't it where it doesn't impact other flows so it's not to do actually with throughput seeking or capacity available is to do is supporting the scavenger service and then not impacting other flaws the ark scavenger yeah that's even better right because you wouldn't just deal with the trade-off of having higher capacity or having lower rtt but you might just pick a path that nobody else picks it doesn't get in the way what happens am i talking to myself i can hear you michael but everyone else appears to have gone no i'm here i just i was just confused"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "that the screen share just appeared so i restarted uh oh i see i don't know why my screen i'm sorry uh connectivity sort of one sideways i i i could hear i could hear you guys the whole time yeah i mean i can't see the screen so it stops sharing it i think crazy in the gory set fits very well because in the end it's in you know up to the implementer to make a real choice but making a path choice that suits well for scavenger type traffic or fits scavenger service that that is probably what we want to say so can can someone suggest specific texts here i can type i'm wondering like how do you know this right like i mean the scavenger is mainly just using a pass and trying to be friendly so you're like what's the best characteristic that supports this well it's very easy i mean you may have three paths and you have uh three connections let's say three connections and two connections they they use two parts so you would use i mean you would put it on the third where it gets into gets out of the way of all the other traffic so at least your own traffic isn't being harmed by it and in addition that congestion was all on it i i would generally expect actually that a scavenger class traffic would just use use whatever the default path is like it wouldn't try to jump onto some other path necessarily like it would just say like you know just just use whatever you can of the path that would otherwise have been selected yeah well that may increase the chance of having an impact on other traffic on your own other traffic at least so i said there can be different strategies here i suppose but something that fits i mean"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "we can say generically is just making a path choice that minimizes the chance of impacting other traffic no no no no but i think the way you minimize other impact on other traffic is through using something like lead bad well on top of that yeah so you wouldn't have to make a special path choice to minimize intake right because you're minimizing it yeah that's what tommy is saying but you by your condition yeah yeah yeah i i get that i'm saying on top of that you may want to make a different path choice as well and you could use a dip serve chord point since we have one if this is widely used so i'm with mike that's not a path preference that's not a path preference [Music] so description really isn't it we got um the whole time we discussed this was past preferences in different ways we said um an implementation can take this things like capacity profile into account when doing a past choice and i think for um for scavenger it's the same i would expect for for today's implementation rather to use the default person if available enable that if an implementation is smarter and we we have for example some kind of satellite low cost high bandwidth link available in five years the implementation should be free to choose that one for letter traffic but i think this is this is something open for the implementations and for future use you should just expect you get high latency and the traffic may be preempted if something else is more important right you know another point as you're bringing up kind of different radio types it's hard to even predict because some of these other links we have to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "think about coexistence problems of you know if i bring up another path like a satellite link or a cellular link if that's going to cause radio interference with my other paths that's also something that scavenger should not be doing right so corey has written a specific uh suggestion in the chat that looks good to me ah right my suggestion was to avoid discussing about all this stuff and just make something very generic as a statement let the api pass it and then steve anyone builds a network that needs it [Music] yeah i don't know what that means yeah well that's why i prefer like leaving this off like i don't think we have anything particularly useful to say about this one and i don't know if we need to be exhaustive in this list but i mean it is one obvious sort of setting for a capacity profile we would like people to implement it also we have in another part of this draft we do have and an example about the capacity profile can guide usage of a protocol offering scavenger type congestion control as an example absolutely we probably just want to leave it in there well i like having scavenger as an example there but the scavenger is defined in the api as well right i'm tempted to just keep leaving this off um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:04",
    "text": "okay i retracted i'll go with tommy i mean um in reality we don't easily know how to automate this choice so including as an example doesn't help anybody so but i mean like maybe um would it happen and just say you know don't don't optimize for this this flow i mean would it help to in the previous paragraph just be more clear um just yes some some examples of some examples of path preferences based on capacity profiles include like just to say that this is not an exhaustive list these are just some suggestions yeah i like that actually i think the difficulty and of leaving this out is that we really much constrained for the future because if if you have um the more examples you have the the more open this will be otherwise people will say oh we don't see scavenger here we can't implement that or on the other hand we end up with a lot of choices that will be much difficult different from implementation to implementation so i think it's diffic that's my fear uh if we remove more and more of that stuff but but at the same time like i don't want to constrain someone by giving advice for scavengers that this is really based on actual experience and i'd rather leave that open for someone to decide in the future"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "if they have something that is meaningful for them yeah so so i'm i'm completely fine with uh was making the um was making the capacity profile this general description um clear that it's just a list of examples i still would prefer to have at least the scavenger type in the list because it's something that's at least implementable and we have an idea how to implement it but well i mean this is not the list where we define the capacity profiles that still exists right about right but one might implement it and also like for example like there is also a default capacity profile that we don't mention here because it's not interesting for the path selection we are not we're not removing scavenger from the main list yeah i think we're actually doing the right thing i think we're accentuating the idea of scavenger being a congestion control type thing uh where you can make relative priority decisions in taps and we're not saying that we can choose between network class and the week one actually has low cost or a high available bandwidth and whether we think that's acceptable to use which i think actually can be tricky trade-offs and we shouldn't go there i'm happy with with the um example one that chloe got okay i agree as well an interface i agree to okay cool all right let's merge it well we agree"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "okay um next one this was a i think a very recent issue that was filed um essentially saying we're talking about these preference levels but we didn't reference them yet in the implementation draft and so i tried to do a very simple approach where we essentially just you know very early on say you know look at this section of the api document for property preferences be more explicit that these are selection property preferences and i took this suggestion to say okay you know first your talk about prohibit properties and require properties and just kind of add the references turbine is that fine with you since you opened the issue yeah yeah thanks that that is uh exactly sort of that fits the spirit of my issue report and looks good okay great i'll merge that in then okay and then this one was opened a little while ago we so this is an architecture one because we got the sector review recently some of the things they talked about were protocol fallback being a tricky subject and i think the main issue is that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "we were not really meaning fall back in the sense that tls often thinks about it as and instead i changed the language to talk about kind of you're allowed to specify the minimum version that you want to allow for this attempt and then you could change that for future attempts um also talks a little bit about trying to clarify the key material sharing and how you shouldn't just use keys across protocols that they're not meant to be used for and again kind of fixing up this language about fallback and switching it back to minimum versions and we got an approval from chris which is good um are we okay to merge this do we think opinions looks good to me okie dokie yeah i do it we'll do it yet so pointless merged done yes ah hey hey brian i guess it is half past now so you are you're with us fantastic okay um michael what's what's going on here oh yeah i was just looking at that i just saw that philip has made a few updates so well i mean as the description says right that i i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "what i did is i i read this i read this email and it has a good number of suggestions that are just small wording fixes you see a timer timer i don't know tiny stuff like that so this is my effort to put all the tiny stuff together and in doing so i also noticed that uh there are these references to property names that use well that's that has to be the old style that we once had before we invented property right so we were referring to these things by the section heading like you see in on this multipath transporter policy for using multiple transports that was the name of the section adding in the interface so i replaced that now uh with the actual names of the properties and i also opened an issuer i'm asking if i should make this effort for the interface draft itself which is quite big so i wanted to check before doing it but i suppose i should um because in the interface draft it we define the name but then the section heading is a more like you know an english phrase that that seems reasonable right to have are you suggesting that the section headings would change in the api draft not just [Music] i thought it's better to refer to these things by their name rather than the section heading here what was the more proper english on the left saying lifetime priority ordered and i changed it to a term that is message lifetime and so on but i think to me this is better maybe yeah everything sorry but what what were you mentioning for the interface draft you were saying there was a larger change there yeah because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "well it's just uh regular text like here in the interface draft it also refers to properties you know saying this and that property has this effect or something like that and it refers to them in the same style as here so i think that these textual references to a property they should be just like here they should be replaced with the name of it or than the heading yeah that's a bit of a pain to do because there are many such property references in the interface draft but i do think that makes the document clearer yes that sounds right aren't all of the property references that we have also next to actual references to the section so i mean it makes it a little bit easier to find the places where you're referencing the things i'm not sure all of them are but most yeah it's a whole document pass already yeah i think it's worth doing but yeah i i share the mur and how much work it is yeah i mean it's not the end of the world i can do it cool we have some of these property names of camera case and some of them with dashes i don't know if we care but yeah it seems like it may just be the multipath one that's a dash exactly i didn't notice any others uh alternative addresses advertisers l dash alt adder 6215 and interface stream ah yes advertise alt editor um perhaps my suggestion would be to uh to merge this as it is without incorporating this command and then i open an issue that that says yes turn all the alternate property names into camera case and i can make that uniformly sounds good yes i agree okay then i will put one though"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:27",
    "text": "assign yourself okay all right i think this should build now once it does we'll merge it come on yes we had that issue that uh the checks failed if there was a space at the end of lines yes yes and i i wrote a tiny piece of python called for myself to just find lines to have a space in the end and remove them with it with a push to the master and after doing this uh the pull requests after that didn't have didn't show a mistake so because they're probably written against the master branch that has it if that has fixed right this was a new white space introduced by this change that was going to fail ah yes okay so that one's merged uh we have our selection properties reading uh this one has a bunch of approvals so we're probably good on this um i think we talked about it last time yeah after a connection is established"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "yeah i guess if if tom is good with it i think he was the main guy bringing it up but i believe i addressed it yeah so i didn't see anything that doesn't look to me okay okay great please match it fast before anything translator property problem what was there a issue with it building oh no trailing white space into reintroducing them oh oh no that one seems like it's that must be the old because this is an old branch yeah that's just merchant okay great um here we have framers for connections protocols this is fairly simple it replaces some old text by explaining how you can use a message framer to make a connectionless protocol connection oriented with the handshake that you define yourself and then we have a comment here hmm i'm not entirely following this comment i think it might be related to our sort of ongoing discussion about how a framer frames messages but it can also do more than just sort of performance modifications and so i think the ask was to make it clear that this is just one example of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "what a framework can do as opposed to this is like all it can do or something along those lines oh wait this is actually or we can also um i mean i think once one thing that we could do simply just in this definition of a framer uh right here you know we say a framework can encapsulate or encode outbound messages and decapitate or decode inbound data into messages we can also just say framers can also send and receive but how do i put like essentially you know their own handshake or protocol data um i thought they already defined framers yeah it's not just doing decoding and encoding it's it's in it's it's on it's on path like i mean it's on path everything's right um but yeah it's really so interesting about messages i would say a framework can encapsulate or encode outbound messages decapitate or decode inbound data into messages and provide other um [Music] oh how to say framing without saying framing yeah or right it's like the language is there makes it sound like it's a one-to-one mix between the framer does a thing and a message pops out which is what we're saying is not the race right like the framework can be a completely stateful thing that you know is running an entirely absolutely and like in process like or control data or protocol translate that doesn't translate other internal state into on i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "mean it can do anything right it's like it's turing machine um implement parts of protocols and implement parts of protocols that do not directly turn into application messages yeah yeah yep yes yeah i just wanted to note we also do already have some explanation of framers in the uh interface draft it's a nice diagram and all that right right this and if you want to spell it out what you're allowed to do when implementing a framework right yeah okay all right i think that is helpful i'll mention to chrissam okay oh no we have conflicts tragic um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "i don't know why that had a conflict hmm okay while we're waiting for that to build um these are some older ones now colin did you want to talk about this more i don't think if we've seen additional updates here okay so let's skip it for now we had this okay is this oh let's see is this one ready to go now as far as you know so there's um a bunch of yeah minor language issues that someone that is a native english speaker should probably address [Music] okay we could this one common thread with corey this thread with corey yeah yeah okay i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "think um i think you were knit tommy so i think they're probably can be tied up using the thread uh do should you want to make a suggestion here or should we just fix this up later before we merge it in what would you like a question directed to me i either so i guess it sounds like we we should take i i can take a pass and try to do some grammatical suggestions and then merge it in yeah that would be great so um should i assign it to you or can you take it yourself no no uh yeah you'll you can just leave it and i'll i'll um i'll just do it editorial pass on that all right yeah that's what i have to have to do as an editor okay um and then there's we have this super old one which is a do not merge yet and probably is very out of date at this point but we'll come back to it okay uh shall we move on to issues then priests sure okay here actually okay both the other apr yet still doing this yeah i'm just gonna see if i can merge this yeah still waiting okay um all right so this is the one we just filed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "uh i probably spoke the name this is this the one that you already are doing yeah so we should close this because we just did it no no i haven't done it yet i did only for the implementation draft that's the one where i am oh yes we should do this yes okay you can probably make it pass on that on friday okay i mean yeah this is extremely editorial all right um okay okay under discussion yeah that was weird this seems right to me and your suggestion here for the changes um yeah and so we want to move the send and receive do we need like do we just delete this section or do we uh i would have to look at the text again but i i mean i wrote here the text on bounce and send and receive rate should be moved elsewhere so i thought this was probably useful text uh i don't know where it should be moved i don't remember now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "okay do you want to take this as do you have an idea of what you want to move or do you want should we find it i can figure it out like i can i can make it okay okay that'd be great uh why does that take so long sometimes great okay normative language there's no implementation yeah so that was this email right where i said that there were many things that were tiny small fixes which i directly applied but these for example i didn't i mean i i thought i should open an issue just in case because i wasn't sure about it yeah i feel like this first one doesn't feel normative so we could just do a needs to um or i guess no i guess it could be must enormous i mean it's unique could it be occasional oh sorry i collided could it just be uses without a need to or must oh yeah yeah i like that solution at all okay and then the second one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:08",
    "text": "yeah we can also make the second one lower case and he's pointing out that there are multiple others later in the document right there are other places where should is lowercase then we do have some uppercase language and maybe we don't need it i'm trying to look for any other up uh normative shoulds all right but maybe he might maybe he maybe he meant that the other usage is is lowercased because it's getting aligned with earlier usage and so on later so maybe that's what he meant right uh the sctp text has normative shoulds which seems unnecessary probably my fault probably something i need to apologize for long ago no that's fine i'll apologize for the um the framework text yeah yeah sctp also has norm uh and musts then other than that other than that i don't think we have any yeah okay so i i i can take this um that should be a very easy change to make great"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "let's see gloria signed this to me oh boy which icmp to forward for multicast [Music] yeah and the question is about handling of icmp in multicast just while tommy reads it and the question i think really is what do real stacks do because i'm not familiar with this part of processing at all like does it actually happen [Music] do we care i see because this is so this is um yeah so section 10.4 yeah for multicast received mentions yeah yeah um oof yeah i probably shouldn't um ah could you have a well i guess yeah because you would have an initiate error if you fail to join the multicast group right wait a minute how do you know you join a group you can't respond i mean you could you have like a local"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "system error to for some reason you're not allowed to join the group um okay i mean you could have yeah they maybe don't even support multiples so you might get an arrow yes okay right right or like you know we have cases where like a your app is not allowed to use multicast because it doesn't have permissions to do it and so you can have um yeah yeah we should probably just remove that okay yeah i'm just wondering if you can get errors if uh something changes while the connection's active right potentially but i don't know if there's those would be icmp errors right if i mean if it's an ssm group probably not on a receiver for an asm group you might i don't what you would send icmp with a multicast address no but you make it i'm not trying to remember how it works it's been too long i mean if you have an asm group and you're receiving from it um you might pick up errors relating to anything you're sending i don't know how they've been delivered like ttl exceeded yeah or if someone put someone uh if a path failed or a path changed and uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "you started getting uh um sort of uh destination unreachable or something would they come up as icmp errors no no multicast that's why we had all this problem having to have um looking glass things to figure out what was happening but you get tpl errors right perhaps maybe yeah i mean do we either do we need the text or can we just kind of um be quiet and ignore them [Music] i'm not sure we need to enumerate every possible error here right right yeah but yeah i mean errors they should be reported yes yeah so we can just mention something vague of like if there's some error that happens during the middle that can report it but not mention what specifically that would be yeah and we'll fight back on ttl if anyone um really wants to push it to us to why it might exist yeah but we're not using an example less is best yep okay what is going on here so udp connection error um okay so this is now just getting to generic udp icmp errors which do make sense um do they include additional info um [Music] right this is the quoted packet information yeah i guess if you're operating that's often not available right but if your operating system provides it then i guess tops could provide it to you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "no right yeah i mean we just have some text of like if you are able to get the information you may want to be able to attach there's um i think that's a good addition because i'm increasingly in six mile and other places people are talking about all the using icnp messages if they see a quoted packet and otherwise just not ignore them got it uh gory could you suggest some text for this yeah um twiddle something to assign me or ping me and i'll do it yeah i'll i'll say i think it sounds like you have a good idea of some of the context on this too is the content of message always bikes i don't think a message always has to have the message can't have empty bytes um is this is this contents bites or is it saying does it return a bite array rather than a structured object i can't tell if it's asking about just an api thing or whether it's asking about whether empty messages are allowed right that's it um let me look at the api that we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "so because i mean we have partial messages which makes in some ways suggests it has to return byte arrays but otherwise it would be nice to be able to have an implementation that returned it as in a more structured way depending on the protocol so we already have the the key values thingy in the frame i can fill so you already can with the framer you could just completely chop out the protocol into uh this dictionary thing and return an empty byte array just by the current implementation right the question is when the api allows for this um and then i think in the implementation that would be in section 5.2 so the only question is whether we should uh hint or provide help for an implementation that wants to let's say construct a message object in the framer and then return that message object whether we should somehow um provide either guidance or a hint into towards that direction but this is difficult because it completely depends on the object system the implementation would use i mean it does the the parsing of a message does let you specify the message context which is where you do this so it seems quite reasonable i'll i'll i'll take this and suggest some text"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:09",
    "text": "okay um it sounds like this may just need to re reference the fact that it's using the api documents pseudocode where where do we define that in the api document i guess it's section 1.1 yeah okay what's going on with this one final message propaganda message yeah um right finals the last message on the connection yeah exactly um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "i think this is just again sounds like this needs a reference to the api doc are people people still able to hear because everyone else is muted yeah i can hear you hi i hear i'm a little confused about that one because it's been a while since i looked at this but i'm wondering where this is end of message thing is coming from uh well yeah so end of the api document uses end of message and is mw message is what was being used in the message framework examples as the thing you pass so you just change it to end up message oh okay yeah again it's like yeah this part is using api style things and just needs to call up to it yeah yeah receive partial called end of message not a centered message end of message shouldn't have a capital e write it right here in the issue so that you don't get it wrong yeah okay okay that's good yeah okay yeah that that's pretty easy okay privacy implications for using the same tokens on different paths what token are we talking about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:08",
    "text": "um is it the token or is it just in general commenting that that uh if you're in connection racing you can potentially correlate the different uh the the different connection attempts until they're all from the same host because they they look very similar and use that to figure out what what addresses are referred to the same host and from protocols right right i don't is this something that we need to address in the implementation document because this is that's just kind of a property of doing xero tt connections at all right um it's possibly an implementation warning to if you're worried about that you maybe need to be careful how you're doing connection racing because it does we do have a privacy and security considerations section in the interface draft already [Music] i'm not seeing anything on early data in there there's something about dns resolution so is this a is this an implementation detail of zero rtt or is it something that actually does need to be surfaced in the interface i think it's the latter i think so to because the implementation just says this is how you implement but the concern is about when is it safe to enable it yep yeah just which is an api level thing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "yep it's not just zero rtt it's connection racing in general right yeah and it should go in the bit that reese said because um this is just properties of the underlying system you're using now people just need to be aware that they've understood what the problem is and the system does the right thing yeah so in the interface draft there's a section on early data where it also i guess cautions that your data has to be safely repliable and has a reference so i think that that's too specific i mean yes of do doing zero rtt is one case but if you're doing connection racing in general you can potentially correlate the different addresses that are being erased from but but i guess if i'm doing connection racing without any data inside so if i'm just racing tcp handshakes yeah are those you you if you're racing v4 and v6 connections which is regular tcp handshakes you can probably correlate the timing and see this this v4 address and these this v6 address are likely the same device which is an information leak i guess that's separate from this kind of like the the content of data being on different paths yeah okay yeah it's kind of similar to but not quite the same as this one that's probably the same sort of warning watch out for both so all of these are related issues with racing okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:05",
    "text": "uh does someone want to take a stab at this you can assign this one to me okay great thank you and on that point i think i need to run to my next thing so all right perfect well we assigned something to you so you assigned something to me so yeah i did a thing sorry it couldn't be around for more uh see all the next one all right all right uh this one i just need to do so i think at this point we've now gotten to a bunch of previously assigned issues and then we have mappings so i think that's kind of it then for our open issues they are now all assigned we have a bunch of reviews which resulted in the issues that we just went through and i'm not so i think we did also convert all points from the reviews that we got into issues at that point oh we had watson that sent us a review i'm not sure if that got at rest it was a section early review may 30. i'm not seeing any uh reply to that email in the chat um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "they have missed it i think i may just oh a wait so this is the sector on architecture 5 30 on uh oh yeah architecture wait am i yep okay uh the the sector on architecture i i did reply on email and i mentioned the issue in pr and we did merge that today oh okay sorry i guess i got two emails about it then yeah i i had replied on june 3rd for that oh yeah i'm not i'm just not threading this right okay cool cool yeah it looks like that might have been it for now so um i am wondering so torm you were kind of having this ongoing review on the implementation draft are you done with your review at this point i wouldn't say so no um i find that much time yet um but i'm willing to continue pretty much in the same fashion um if that's right with you right so i guess we sort of i'm not sure how strict we are on anything sort of calling it working group last call but then effectively we are sort of leaving it open for further changes anyways unlike all documents because we have to align them but also we want to be done at some point so i could have hurry up until so maybe be finished at the next meeting right so we do not have a tabs meeting in philadelphia at the next itf meeting but we do have a draft deadline in early july"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "and i was thinking if we could it would be great if we could just publish another revision of all of our drafts before that deadline even though we're not meeting [Music] and then sort of see where we're at yeah that makes sense so when is that deadline it is um internet draft submission cut off july 11 right yeah to submit the drafts but yeah you can also take that as a deadline okay just so we have a deadline and then i assume we're not meeting in july because people will be busy with the actual ietf meeting but resume after yes i'm gonna write publish a revision of crafts by july 11 let's pre-ietf114 deadline and then we'll see where we're at and i also have to circle back over aaron who i'm not seeing on this call yet how far do you think we are from being finished with the three documents then when we get this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "date in the next rev what's the next bit of process do you see so i guess once we have gone through all of our implementation draft documents we will most likely need uh maybe another sort of path to see if there's anything we missed when aligning our three documents because we were gonna hold architecture and interface until implementation is done uh yeah but then i think we should uh get uh shepherds right abs i think is the next part do we need to do another working group last call or do do the chairs want to just work out whether that should appear while we're doing the review of the three documents or not i mean you're called okay i kind of like the idea of having like one final last call on okay we're aligning our documents before we actually ship them but i'll have to talk to aaron about it yeah as long as we all agree in the process sure it'd be fine maybe maybe just like a short a short one because i expect we may not hear too much if people have already done it um i i don't see we have shepherds assigned yet do you know who we did talk about shepherds a little while ago and i'm pretty sure we have it in one of the meeting notes so we had basically we had assigned three different people uh each of which is not an offer for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "that particular draft that they would be shepherding and we have okay i'm seeing implementation with brian interface anna and architecture michael is what i'm seeing from my notes from an interim we had last year if those people decide that it's okay you can actually just put in the tracker as the chair just click on it oh okay i can't just i would get them to confirm first though that they really believe it yes it sounds good all right i think we're done for today and i'll circle back with next steps after having talked to emma unless anyone had anything else they wanted to discuss right now not hearing anything uh i wish everybody who's going to philadelphia a great meeting and um i'm gonna see you later see all hopefully in philadelphia"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "yeah cool um thanks for everything bye-bye yeah bye-bye thanks for the meeting bye"
  }
]
