[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "want to give a p just a matter of time we we don't have for the moment yeah yeah no I I actually think that we might want to just um let things go till September um and focus on getting the two documents through off 48 and um regroup when we have more energy anyway but again thank you for taking the time for that it is very useful for for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:10",
    "text": "hello hi I don't think Spencer's actually here he said he was at a funeral didn't hear from Michael maybe meant coming here no he said he actually has to go to physical funeral this afternoon uh I don't know that we're going to have a lot to talk about today but uh let's give another two minutes for people to show up um for is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:28",
    "text": "for okay so let's start here um do I want to do here I'm going to share the uh the notes there's the right button for that okay so um uh welcome to uh the uh uh mark April meeting um thanks for coming hi Dave I see you there um and um what's up so uh you're all here please be nice to each other you've all seen the note well uh and I see you put your names in here great thank you very much and let me see I got regrets regret Spencer is said he's at a funeral um any comments on the minutes from the previous meeting no it was fine same for me okay all right so uh we have um three uh metosa branches chapter codec codec control uh and then we have ffv1 V4 it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:03",
    "text": "in a different state of the world and finally we have the tag I guess is also metosa I guess I could move it up here maybe makes sense for me um so uh flak and rrasa are in the uh RFC editor Q um it says that flak is being actively edited right now uh a bit surprised we haven't seen the O 48 for uh matros yet unless I've missed it did I miss it no no I haven't seen anything okay uh so obviously as you can tell here the flak document can't Advance before matasa but I mean that shouldn't be a problem we should get the documents through in that order um and um RFC editor means it's it's just waiting it's waiting for its turn to uh be on the the uh top of the stack uh and the stack looks a bit like this so there's a bunch of documents in front of it a bunch of clusters um and as I said it could be any day now um that uh it comes up um so as you know during o 48 in the theoru we're supposed to have 48 hours to uh proofread the result and respond in practice we have as much time as we need um and um uh we shouldn't rush but we should feel some sense of uh urgency to get it done um and uh it's a big"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "document so I'm not surprised if it takes them a while longer to get it all completely uh into the right form uh for them um uh do we know of any last minute edits if there are last minute edits to metosa that we maybe have noticed since November October um then we can we get a chance to put them in during off 48 um if if they're wording issues then there's no issue with that um if it looks like it's a little bit of a semantic change then we may need to ask our area director to approve there that there was actually one discussed recently a change of an Anum actually the Anum label uh the text of the enum was changed to reflect the common value in quick time actually but we didn't change the label and now the label doesn't match the text so we would like to change the label as well we all agree on the change but I wasn't sure if we need to wait yeah so make a have a clear um chain poll request but your poll request is not going to be applicable to the XML file that they're editing so you're just going to have to to recognize what the resulting XML change is and um and then we'll have to get that in and off off 49 do you have a a PR number on this I do let me check 819 okay okay so that should be fine we're just fixing a some uh edit not a semantics so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "I think that should be fine anything else about these two documents that are in the RFC editor queue no I'll just I for Li for ebml I had label o 48 for the edits we did during that phase I just tag that PR with that so we know it's going in there okay uh so the next question is uh of the four uh matasa d uh you know add-ons tags control codec and chapters um you know I don't know if there's one document that we would should focus on for the next few months or all of them or none of them um I recognize there's only so much energy uh to to do things forward and I would prefer we spent them on flak and matasa to as that time comes up um it might be that we want to take a break for a couple months uh regroup after the summer or maybe it's the opposite I don't know you tell me how you guys are feeling um and um sense of urgency you have the most important for me is the codec one for having the mapping I don't know for TV if you agree on that I agree it's important but uh we actually talked about that the previous time I was planning on working on tags because for me it's an easy document that should be done quickly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "working on tags yeah first first tag and then codc yeah okay okay also we're going to have a student in the Google suar code for VLC that's going to work on the on some menu features so there might be some person and me working on the chapter codex as well this summer it's not very useful for most people but it's going to happen Okay anything else like I said I beginning I think this could be a very short meeting um we're scheduled to meet again uh on the 23r which is effectively in two weeks um maybe we don't need that meeting I don't know how do you feel well it depends if we get the or 48 for matosa and maybe Flack then we'll and then we may have things to discuss okay so do you want me to cancel the meeting if we don't have off 48 for me it would be okay but okay so so that's what I that's what I will do if if we have off 48 questions to deal with then uh the meeting will go ahead if not then um we'll it'll get can Will no new things yes any comments from Michael or Dave Maybe you need to type them I don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "know they've wrote something in the chat but uh that something needs to be change in the codec but since it's in the codec document it's not urgent I think okay I can see trying to speak but I cannot hear anything uh he should have audio be not nothing blocking him except his own microphone mute there we go there we go you can hear me here yes now we can hear you okay um all I was going to say was just kind of supporting What drum was saying that I was kind of interested also in working on the codec document but I realized that's not to the um immediate timelines we're discussing right okay all right well I think I'll just declare any other business and if there is none I have one more um I wanted to point out that the the no time to wait conference is scheduled for September 11 1213 in Carl R Germany okay anybody else all right well thank you very much and uh we'll talk to you in two weeks unless uh uh there's we're not at off 48 which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "case I'll cancel the meeting Jerome thank you just say thank you thank you by great bye bye thanks bye"
  }
]
