[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:37",
    "text": "foreign too far away all right yep Janice it's uh next door if you guys can see that last thing so I can remember okay yeah we have her at the uh at the end at the end just to think of what you do yeah no we don't I was gonna have a group I tried to set up all right I think that means they're great"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:06",
    "text": "all right okay okay started okay okay sorry getting set up everybody online give me one sec trying to get the minutes in the right place okay all right as people trickling we'll deal with that um people online can someone write in the chat room if you guys can hear me perfect thank you Robin okay all right welcome to ietf 115 this is the DHCP working group here's the note well hopefully everyone's seen it this goes through all of the ITF processes and policies um you sign this when you're registered but here it is again please read it over and follow all of the policies including you know code of conduct and IPR the two we always want to talk about and make sure that people are following both of those so if you're not sure this group is always been good to me so I expect that to continue um the note well went on if you're not at the mic um please wear a mask that's been going on all week that's the policy of the community that's the policy of this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "event so thanks everybody I think people have been doing a good job this week um for blue sheets Bernie still leaves that in there uh meat Echo does uh does that for us so um please make sure if you're in the room that you're signed into me Deco that you're clicking on the right button note taking I've started a doc people could help out with that that would be great okay Eric would like a volunteer because we can't start the meeting until there is a scribe in this case you know I'm solo up here chairing so I won't be able to do it so if we could have um somebody start the notes or somebody online or even um in the room would be great foreign Eric's offering cookies for anyone oh a beer tonight look at you just just the best ad [Laughter] Eric if you just want to put it in a note too you can just send it to me too there is there is in the meetings and I know if you go to the retail there is a good takes you to hedge dock or something but I'm also okay Eric I can track you down if you want to just use a dock and make it up and send it to me and I'll drop it in there after I'm just thankful somebody's writing down my musings though"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "uh please don't do that it's gonna be a real short meeting [Music] all right I'm gonna assume Eric I'm gonna go on and assume that you'll Chicken Scratch something down thank you you're my hero um I'm Tim Winters I'm chairing this group Bernie my co-chair is in Cuba scuba diving so he's having a rough time with it right now so then Bernie is not here he misses everybody our agenda today administrative stuff we're going to talk about 8415 to internet standard for a little bit and then we have a distribute Sr locator by DHCP we have registering self-generated IPv6 addresses and then we have a couple of next steps um anyone have any problem with that agenda I want to change it Jen is in a different meeting so I have her at the end so I don't want to move that if people want to move anything else at the court we can do that All Right Moving On status um we don't actually have any working group documents at the moment um I think we're going to have soon a bunch after this meeting but we currently don't have any so there's not much for me to talk about there there are three related documents right now um all of which are presenting today so that's good everyone's made updates and they're all moving so that's good um just a quick thing we put on the slide is the Milestones we're aiming to have oh that's a typo 3315 Bays should be 84 15 days sorry um we're aiming to have that done in January of 2020 23. um and then after we're done that we can talk about rechargering and shutting down whatever makes the most sense all right let me switch slides so I'm gonna talk I guess the mic is still on I'm going to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "talk a little bit about advancing um DHCP V6 to an internet standard so some of these are a retread but just people aren't aware we're trying to advance um DHCP to an internet standard it's the last main objective left in the DHC Charter um so last meeting in Philadelphia we decided to take this on um just a quick reminder here's all the requirements for everyone to read you can go read these later but these are all the things we have to do as part of the process of moving to an internet standard um independent implementation status so on that slide there was a Implement you know implementations that have to exist here we have um lots of lots of implementations exist of DHCP B6 I don't think there's a problem there um there's a little bit of trickiness here measuring 8415 compliance versus 3315 compliance but ultimately there's a lot of DHCP um out in the world and it's being used so that's good um the proposed schedule for 84 15 Biz so we just published 0 0 of this document we started a working group last call that ends next week um sorry work and group adoption call thank you in this book um yes we're in group adoption call that ends on the 18th we haven't seen much on that so that's going to be one of my pleas today is everybody take a look at it and you know I think this obviously makes sense as a DHCP working group graph I think it's something we should work on um so I'd like to hear some noise in the mailing list about that um we're going to publish that republish that document as a working group document we actually got some feedback from Bad links from Ayanna thanks for their review um they did some so I think we'll probably stick those in the zero zero one that goes to the working group so that's good news um we're hoping to put 01 out in mid-December with any changes for as part of the working group last call working group adoption call geez"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "um review we want everything wrapped up by February 8th um we'll do as many updates in between there and March 16th is what we're aiming for yeah yes 23 I have not built a time machine yet yes it does it's wrong it's one of those days yep so 20 I'll slash that through sorry um yes 2023 February so we're aiming to have this all wrapped up by a March ietf I think if there's anything lingering we can deal with that in at the March GF it's kind of our game plan um one thing to note here is we're going to need a Shepherd for this that is not one of the two co-chairs because both of the co-chairs are our authors so that's something we'll be looking for if you're interested please come talk to me about that I think Suresh so I should volunteers to Shepherd that that's awesome um Okay so things in the 8415 Biz that we've done since we last talked in Philly we addressed all the erratas um we removed iatas we discussed removing them for 8415 when we did the update from 3315 and this time they're really gone we took those out um we also took out the server unicast option because don't find it we didn't find many use cases for it um that also additionally resolved one of the erratas it was out for it so that's been removed and then we added a reference to 79.43 or the those are the four things we did uh any questions about any of that so there was a couple of things we wanted to get some feedback on um one of them was the reduce the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "background material sections in one one and one two um we talked about potentially bringing those down there's a lot of extra stuff in there that I think can get removed now I don't know if anyone has any opinions I guess I'll go through these one at a time um if no one runs to the mic I'm going to take these as we should probably do these this is going to be my position on this or so is there does anyone have any strong opinions about leaving the background material in no one's running to the mic um we should remove all texts related to unicast Transmissions so we took out the server unicast options but there's a lot of text about what to do in unicast situations we could potentially remove them all of that text we could leave it in there it's a little odd that you tip out that option which almost I'm going to ask the next question as well is should we deprecate the use of the multicast status code so the one thing that's here that I wanted to see if anyone had any opinions on was if it's an 84-15 proper device it might be using multicast and a new server might not respond with use so I don't know we're not aware of any deployment so I don't think it's a problem but if somebody really wants we can leave the use multicast status code and all the text to unicast in case there is what would become a legacy device that's out there trying to use unicast um I I you know personally I think Bernie was leaning towards removing all of that I I think that's okay um but I don't know if anybody really knows if if any use of the unicast status code um Tomah confirmed that KIA doesn't support it at all um I know that there's other servers that do support it but it's not used so anyone have any opinions on any of that oh okay um I I guess what I'm taking from this is we're going to go ahead and do all of these changes unless we hear something for one one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "this is the play I was talking about earlier [Music] um please send an email if you're in support of this becoming a working group document please send an email if you're not in support of this becoming a document um please say something about this uh I'll I'll pack again probably after this meeting but yeah ultimately we want to adopt this and and so we can move forward yeah I mean obviously when you're looking at it for the group to adopt it please feel free to review or looking for reviews I think that's my next slide yeah my next slide what you can do to help review the document when published and Report any issues to the author's working group um anything the faster we get these issues and quicker we can get these things resolved so if you find anything you think anything's out of place please let us know um I think we'll make all those changes in o1 that we talked about that I just talked about we'll see if anyone has any issues with that and I think that's everything so the main thing here is please do the adoption call and then review the document any other questions about 8415 all right I'm gonna move on uh we have the SR locator oops I don't know if somebody's online or in the room for this looks like online um guys see both of you are on there I'm not sure who's presenting based on the request so one of you guys want to jump on into the queue so I can admit you perfect hello hi we can hear you just fine go ahead do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "you want to do you want to run the slides or do you want me to share them sorry I didn't even think about that yeah so uh you will help me pay Jeff okay the yep yep just tell me next and I'll switch to the next slide whenever you're ready okay I think let's begin from this page uh so uh the draft have been present in last ITF meeting and uh according to the comms we updated the draft Johnson from Channel mobile so next page yeah I will go through the uh slides quickly because most of the diamonds have been revealed in last meeting so the background for this draft is that the operators began to deploy ASAP six in major Network uh you know the number of CPS are very big even more than 50 subset covered the whole city with uh High Mobility however the normally normally the CPS don't deploy igp so operator needs some way to this distribute the i76 locators dynamically to simplify"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:04",
    "text": "the configuration next page uh the basic idea is that the device or the dhccp server treat the siber 6 locator as the IPv6 prefix uh then the dgcp server can allocate sr6 locator as the prefix next page here is some basic format of the i76 seat there may be two cans of seeds the original original seed format defined in IFC 8986 uh the locator like IPv6 prefix the locator of the comprised sr6c is separated to two parts located block and locate a node one DHCP server allocate the locator uh the structure was a post-original seat and a comprised the seed should be covered next page uh according to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "comments last meeting we introduced a new uh identify uh Association for the i76 locator the structure is showing in this figure next page uh under the new IA we Define the iae as RS6 locator options field uh which will be used to specify the srv6 located as a figure should the post original and the comprised s760 the structure are covered next page the uh encapsulated format of the new IA as you need the thicker and I a Sr V6 locator option may appear only have IE as rb6 locator option uh more than one I8 i76 locator option you can papaya in a single uh I I cyber six locator option so it's similar to the IPv6 prefix X page so here uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "we will provide two application scenarios first is what works as a dgcp server um the behavior we choose here it will allocate locator subnet prefix from the prefix poll and then generate the locator sum item router locally and distribute the local subnet router to other Athletics note so it's very simple and next page the second scenario is that the brass works as EGC pv6 release agent so the behavior is also very simple it is really DHCP v6pd allocation messages generate the locator seven item routine locally and distribute the locator prefix routine to other rp6 node so it's very simple next so here we choose uh what we have updated compared to the origin of the revision [Music] uh a lot of them so fortunately we Define the new IA"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:04",
    "text": "option inside of using the option in the IE prefix option the second day point is that we Define IA i76 locator option to specify a Services located associated with our I as I was six located so it's a uh just a scene with the comments received the last meeting next page so uh we are seeking for the comments in DHCP working group as well in the spring working group in fact we hope to apply a slot in Spring working group also in this meeting we have not got it we will try to contact the chairs of the Supreme working group to see if we can look for some slot next time so any question or comments yeah um one of them is a procedural question have you presented at Spring about this yet what is the status of the spring working group with this document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "so no uh we we have another priority in Spring and uh uh we send the uh request to the working group of chairs before the meeting but we did not get a slot maybe we need some further message exchange with the spring group and shares okay yeah I mean I think we definitely need to do some coordination we don't we don't want to make this option if the spring group has no interest in and making this work so I I think we would need to see some interest on the spring working group before we would do anything more with this document um another question I had about this one was I didn't see what to do if the when they send out the solicit if they get multiple answers back from different servers I don't know if you want to write some text about that I know in this case it's probably not normal with B Razz's but it's definitely possible so that might be something you want to consider adding to the document is what brows should do if it gets more than one of these IA sr6 locators and how it can choose or how it deals with that whether it sends them all down or how that's dealt with more than one server answers it I didn't see that anywhere in the document I could have been wrong but that might be something for you to consider um as well yeah I think you are corrected and we should considered multiple uh locator of multiple other options I think we can add some text as you just mentioned uh after the meeting and then uh generator new Revision in the uh at"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "the same time I do think the spring work group is not interested in this draft I think this draft day is very useful for operators we may try to send some email to uh swimming working group to trigger some discussion on that I think this is a very interesting topic for the spring guys foreign responsible LED for DHC I fully second Tim's point we need to get interest in Spring to use this document before spending valuable time of this working group on this so it's very important to get support from the spring looking group and from the chair of the spring working group sure we will uh try to trigger some discussion there thank you okay um I think that's everything I have so yeah get some I guess our feedback is talk to Spring see if you can get interest there and then come back to the DHCP working group and we'll continue to work with you on this okay well thank you very much thank you hey Eric Jen's up I'm sorry for the late foreign one second everybody online Jen is in another meeting and so we told her at the end but we're running super fast today so we're about 10 minutes before she was supposed to go"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "so hopefully she'll come in here a second no you're perfect we literally just the slide just appeared uh hello uh I think I know almost everyone right I'm Jen next slide please so we're talking about how to use dhcpv6 to record and addresses which were not assigned by the HTTP V6 quick recap to what Warren said last time in Philadelphia so the usual scenario is yeah you have slack or even statically assigned addresses Jose using it but some administrators prefer to use dhcpv6 as a kind of uh login system so they could easily find out who was using what so it would be nice if they might want to have all the information in one place so they could look it up for troubleshooting forensics whatever like I want to know yeah what what particular device was saying in that particular traffic so there was a link to the slides and obviously there is a video of really nice presentation by Warren so next slide so yeah next slide so what we've done in the last few months we try to address feedback received on the list I do hope we address most if not all of it so let's go straight so we clarifying how the registration message supposed to be sent first of all we're saying that it must be sent from an address being registered that would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "help on infrastructure which has some form of layer 2 security Savvy to prevent spoon so you cannot register something you do not own well in IPv6 especially in slack own means a lot of things but at least you kind of responding to ND for that address which also implies that you cannot register multiple addresses in one message so it's going to be a message per address secondly host sends that message from the inter through the interface which has that address so if you have multiple home hosts with multiple interfaces we need to make sure we are sending it to the right place and well obviously we signed and create four addresses which are not provided by the xcpv6 which means slack or statically configured that the changes next slide please okay that was about sending now receiving some clarification on how to validate a registration message I learned something I did not know there is already definition for address being appropriate for a link which kind of means the DHCP server needs to know something about topology so basically we kind of the server should validate that the host is supposed to have that address so if you are on v1x with that slash 64 you should not be sending something completely ridiculous in the registrator message so what to do when the server receives this the whole ID basically let's log it let's keep it somewhere so administrator could look it up later so the server is supposed to log it somehow and draft currently says should Mark addresses unavailable and do not offer it actually is that the question to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "audience should we have shoot here on May because it kind of requires additional capabilities for the hcp server besides just login so it's a kind of going slightly more further not just let's track addresses next slide please retransmits ah we now actually have is it sub the dated slides but anyway that's it uh retransmit so prop oh yeah proposed approach which is currently in the draft and I'll talk about another option which we are discussing as well so just send and packets by default three with some delay between them preferably jittered and let administrator to change those variables if they don't like it so why we are not I can because there is no real point of having acknowledged because initially you still can't rely on that right uh we deploy this on the client and most likely the server would not support it in the wild so you don't know if the server does not support it or it's just not hacking it next slide please so for refresh you registered it like three three packets in three seconds but obviously you need to kind of remind the server that you are still alive so again proposed solution is to send the message either when one third of valid lifetime in initial Pio so when you create an address you go to Pio look in the valid Lifetime and send the timer or because by default valid lifetime is like a month uh let's use four hours like a Magic Number Warren thinks it's a magic number well as good as anything else and yeah original Pio is Lifetime is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "critical because you might get a a subsequent arrays with different lifetime so it might you might get into situations when you never sent an update because it keeps changing otherwise you're also like getting them in the past and refresh messages should better transmitted using the same logic and messages in 10 seconds next slide please however I like being it right here we've had a lot of discussion in the lobby so there is another proposal which is not in the draft but Bernice I think suggested it on the list yeah so let's use standard DHCP retransmission logic with exponential back off and actually if you're backing it off up to one hour or four hours whatever magic number we want to put here it basically automatically takes care of refreshing so you just start changing it faster and then you slow down and then you send it every hour or four hours or whatever then we don't need to separate refresh from initial retransmits and we're also probably minimize the chances of packet being lost so again think about it I don't know I don't have strong opinions on what which is better it just but remember this option is not in the text yet it just okay next slide please yeah so this is probably the main changes done since Philadelphia so as I said to like questions here it's about rear transmit strategy also about here shall we stop giving the registered address to anything else and by the way another idea came up the hcpv4 has uh inform message so maybe this should be called not registration but in form and besides that the authors would like the working group to consider adoption if there are no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "objection strong objections sir that's it questions comments yep we got some people in line go ahead Eric here first Eric clivia Cisco yeah I have a couple of concerns with this the first one released on the principle I I feel like if you want the HTTP to know about your address just has for an address and they will be a lot simpler than uh generating your address and then registering it and you won't need to have I mean yet another mechanism I I see one exception to to that I would be link locals but I mean you never talk about link Lookers I guess you don't want to register link it clearly states global address valid address so uh so that was kind of my first uh uh concern should I follow with the next one or yeah please so I well after that assuming you really want to go with that at least try to make the protocol right and in particular you know you you know that well everyone in this room is using Wi-Fi everyone in the world is using Wi-Fi sending multicast over Wi-Fi is extremely harmful Upstream I do you have comments on this I guess Upstream it should not be so bad extremely Upstream Upstream you're sending from a client Upstream you don't get multicast Downstream which probably it really depends where your relay or server is right so so you assume that that your affiliary or your server is never going to be on Wi-Fi uh Wi-Fi speakers"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "I know I did yeah yeah I didn't see the reply yeah so it looks and and in particular the draft also States well that's the only uh message in DHCP that's not going to work with request reply always you know it does not require acknowledge it looks to me would be a lot more efficient if you just send your registration and get your uh acknowledgment basically or some sort of acknowledgment which by the way could also tell you that the DHCP server has you know you somewhere it mentions that there could be a an issue on the server with the link not being adequate there are some more cases right where where the DHCP server is not going to be able to register your address uh first of all uh clarifying questions in this case again we cannot rely on acknowledgment because it's quite possible that DHCP server does that support that stuff right so what I'm supposed to do if I'm not getting an acknowledgment and how it's different from not having acknowledgments at all that not well if you don't get an acknowledgment then you are back to eventually be transmitting couple of times which you are going to do anyway and that's the end of the story it's not worse but if you get an acknowledgment then you are saving quite a bit of messages well with the exponential book of probably not so many but yeah I guess uh I don't know I don't feel strongly about that yeah so we definitely can consider that I don't think it's a like critical here yeah and and yeah my last point was um if the the client is getting a temporary address which is quite common these days it would be nice to release"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "the address when it's done with it rather than you know relying on the fact that it doesn't feel fresh after a third of the life cycle you say release like as I did it is we ah you mean when you get rid of Sandy yeah when the client's done with the address essentially yeah all set okay 10 year so a couple things um one I actually agree with the uh uh point about acknowledgment I think there's no real downside to acknowledging you know it just you know you get the acknowledgment you stop transmitting if you don't you don't um so it seems like a useful thing and also it gives people an incentive to actually put a server there that's going to listen and acknowledge um I don't really care a whole lot about releasing but you know it is a nice little cleanup there was one thing I it was a couple it was one of the early slides and I can't remember exactly what the point was could we go back um one more uh yeah um so I mean one way to well one thing that occurs to me is a way to make this a little bit more um so actually it was I think it was a slide before this sorry um yeah so um so this thing about sending one message for Iana I mean we're probably going to have like especially if we're doing temporary addresses we're going to have like a fair amount of of churn here it might actually be nice to say that that um you know we send a message it's like a DHCP and form style message and we ask for some information about how to how to communicate with the server using TCP and then do that instead of doing like all these multicasts I mean it's true"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "that we should probably not be sending multicast to the to the Wi-Fi but it's not clear that that's always going to be the case particularly if you're in a home network or something like that I don't know what the home network is going to do with a multicast so it'd be kind of nice if if um if there are a way to uh to make the communication be unicast um and it doesn't seem like it's that hard a problem and then like doing this suddenly just becomes a non-problem it was this that kind of triggered me to think about that I mean I don't know how important this is but it just sort of feels to me like it'd be better to do these with unicast if you could and it seems like you could I mean but just to clarify unique costs instead of multicast but the idea of one pay get power in a is like prevents pushing yeah yeah exactly so that's why I mentioned TCP because if you use TCP you get the three-way handshake so you know you actually have a real thing there okay so as I mean you still would need to send one request your address because otherwise I can establish a TCP session using address which I have and register 25 different addresses which are actually done correct right but but it's it's pretty low-key if you're using TCP to do these registrations one per address whereas if you're if you're using UDP and you're using multicast then potentially depending on the network it could actually be problematic so it just seems like it would be lower lower key um and you know I think it you know we're talking about inventing something new here and also you know if you don't get back an answer saying yes I can I can accept these things then you're done right you basically only have to do this for one message like your message is going to be high I want to be able to registration can I do that and you only have to do that once like or that is to say there you don't have to do that you don't have to multiply it by the number of addresses you have you're just going to do it for any given interface you can only send one so interesting I need to think about it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "yeah thanks yeah I'm not sure how important it is it just sort of felt like a thing yeah no no this would be Greenfield but you know we're it we're adding we're adding new capability anyway so it's not like I mean there's a reason why DHCP does what it does with um with um uh with with multicast right and the reason it uses relays the way it does but this is kind of a different situation if we can establish the link to the DHCP server then that gets us our topology information we know where the client is coming from we could even send an identifier with that information and then the TCP connections could all include the same identifier so now the DHCP server knows where you're located maybe it's this case maybe just build the completely new service which like accepts registrations PCP and like yeah it doesn't have to be DHCP right you just have a client yeah well no the reason I suggest TCP is because you get the three-way handshake so you yeah yeah but you can get that you can get that on the Discover right your discover you're trying to discover the service with DHCP so you get the line ID there okay right here yeah I just want to add a quick point if if we are going to do Acts or some sort of acknowledgment from the server it could also be useful to have uh like a Boolean just business to like yes I am using this I'm locking it please keep sending this when your address changes or no I'm not using this so you don't need to do the every four hours resend or send it again when you if you don't do this you can just say quiet but if you stay quiet then you have to keep resending it because you don't know if it's been dropped or if they're not using it so you can just it can be optional not required obviously so but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "it could just an optional hey I acknowledge I received this but I'm not going to use it um because I have nothing to do with implementions of stuff I have a question how much complexity we are already like willing to add for this well because login a message is just one thing with some minimal validation versus billion causes State machine and other stuff I have again fine with either option because I don't have to do this but yeah I don't I don't feel strongly about the acknowledgment but if that's being added I think that could be an extra useful feature so thank you I guess someone taken minutes right yeah thanks tell them I just wanted to I just wanted to add something to this which is that um so if you um now it's shot out of my head uh sorry um so we're talking about uh it's uh right so so if the server uh if you're if you're sending the message to the server um and the server oh right yeah this was the thing um so so one of the problems that we have with with this current spec is that you could have a DHCP server on the link but it doesn't support this message and so it doesn't reply to it right on the other hand if we do the Discover thing that I suggested that could be done in a DHCP in form and now you get an act back you're always going to get an act back it might not have the information you need if it doesn't that means it's not supported info request yeah whatever DHCP before yeah the details details so so that that would actually that would actually allow you to optimize out a lot of Transmissions um because you're gonna you're gonna get back that information that says yeah this just isn't supported on the network and you probably want to retry every so often just to make sure that it hasn't suddenly become supported but that makes things a little cleaner"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "except Suresh Europe okay thanks um so there's two things I think like you know Eric you had a really good point right like about the um you know the uh ability to kind of stop at some point right uh one thing this is this is supposed to be a best best effort mechanism right like you know the idea would be to kind of keep it simple and say hey I'm forming an address with Slack I want to try to see if somebody wants to log this right because in most cases it's not going to be recorded like you know in home networks and stuff like that it's not going to happen right so it's going to be a managed Network that's going to use this right so that's one thing uh but the second thing was like um like yeah it sounds like Tuesday already so what was the last thing you said Eric no Eric Eric Levy uh exactly Okay so uh good one thank you thanks uh Lorenzo so I think the problem exists with or without this right so if you have temporary addresses like it's going to fill up a neighbor cache at the router right like so if we have a way of clearing it I think it's a really good idea no matter whether or not like it's done here or not it's something we can do because if somebody is saying I'm Gonna Give You X addresses per node right and like you know it's never getting clear then I think this is a good way to clear it and saying like I'm done with it right I think that could be a good thing to kind of follow up uh actually speaking of multicast if like where shark on my machine now amount of neighbor Discovery multicast packet sent by a host will probably will like much higher than what we see in in this case anyway so like I'm just yeah I'm fine I just said can we actually not adding too much of multicast here comparing to all other things UIC and right like like if you have V6 only Network and host doesn't know about that amount of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "our multicast stuff it's saying you can get just ridiculous anyway yeah so for them I think for there's a very important distinction between the ND cash size and this this is uh received by the server committed to a log or not and then it doesn't need to be kept whereas the ND cache does need to be kept so I don't know that this is the right actually message type to like clear the MD cache right and the ND cache also does lru and it needs to forget about stuff whereas the logging is if you use this for forensics purposes you have to keep it forever right or at least until you rock log rotation period expires so I I think the only question there Lorenzo would be is if you Market unavailable that would be keeping state in the server right yes if you had um but you know like in theory dad will take care of that because you know we have this problem today with slack and hpv6 where in theory like the dhpv6 server can hand out whatever it wants and anyone can form slack with whatever on some of them I totally agree I guess my point is if you're going to do a should here I think you'd have to clean it up because the servers yeah I guess we can say amazing because if we put shoot and then you start talking about it and they're like yeah yeah if you're having the DHCP server keep track of anything you're going to want to clean it so on the release actually that is what I like one thing I want to say is like yeah we we try to make this as simple as possible also too and you know particularly also to ensure that like you know it wasn't a barrier to implementation on the release I'm not like sure I understand how it would work because like the server needs to un like needs to obviously Time stuff out when when like because like clients can just disappear right and so if it doesn't do that then it runs out of space you know like basically and the other thing is so I'm not sure what a release would accomplish like you basically like save like maybe one message uh but that's it really because you do still have to refresh it while you're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "still there yeah from a forensics perspective I would assume it would let you know when something left right to be honest practically I don't know how often actually privacy extensions expires versus client dropping off the network going home coming back next day with different privacy I just don't have data because I would expect I don't know what's the what's the Privacy extensions lifetime like at 24 hours yeah yeah not so many clients actually stay in for like some snow but there's another you know there's another obviously issue with sending the releases that like you if you have to send it from The Source address that you're currently that you're not using you have to do that before you release it but but I guess we could I mean it would also like um require an additional message type so I I really think about it I really yeah I'm really not sure about the trade-off here but yeah it's not opposed to adding release it's just I'm not sure it's that useful yeah yeah yeah yeah so everything without any yet not even the head of somebody we've reviewed the draft right so I didn't read it he said the slides so release I think it's it's nice to have it it may mean in the in the locks because if you see this address coming up later you know something fishy has happened but anyway my point is more that why are you asking proposing this only for the end points you say you rely on the Layer Two And The Savvy switches they also know the mapping between the IPv6 address appearing at some point of time they don't get a duid of course right I don't know what so send this information from service switches would be useful as well uh you know what I I try to say this is the draft is not a silver ballet we post to be a single source of information about all addresses used in the network especially if you start talking about forensics perspective right ideally what you have you have this you have your neighbor cash entry from routers you have your Savvy information all together will give"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "you a reasonably full picture about what's going on right so um doing it from the switches well I guess you get this information from switches it's much better way like streaming Telemetry and other stuff right I guess right it will simplify the operation on the network because you get a single source of Truth as you say to the HTTP if all the switches doing savvy are implementing this and the release then is is clear right oh maybe what Eric might be saying is like just have just let's say in the draft that switches can send this on behalf of clients that don't implement this right I I think that that's yeah that's why I say you don't think you understand but and that's I think it's okay except technically as worded that the address has to come the message has to come from the source address and so the switch would have to spoof it but maybe it's okay uh yeah maybe it would put it in a relay message right I don't know yeah uh wait are we talking about DHCP clients on switches now are you going to be younger people yeah something to think about um okay so two minutes left good job um the only thing I'm gonna add is this is a DHCP participant I would definitely use the DHCP retransmit timer having tested boatloads of clients they barely get that right I think adding another one would be problematic at best would be my advice but you you do what you want but I I'm sort of with Bernie on that computer smart people and suggestions yeah that's why we're here yeah so it's basically eight that's why we put it on the slides uh because we realize it might be better hiding yeah okay so um yeah I think we can do there's a lot of interest in this draft so I think we should do an adoption call we'll do it on list thank you very much yeah thanks everybody"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "Okay so here we are at the end um a couple of things just to remind everybody please work in group adoption calls for I think we're gonna do one for that draft and for we've already have one going for 8415 please respond on list if you can that would be great um there are some chats also I see now sorry Vicky in the chat room about that draft too that Jen you guys should go take a look at um okay all right that's everything okay um I'll see you guys all in Japan in March and thank you bye everybody online yeah I won't yeah the chat's on you can go to the chat anyway it's on Zulu yourself all right come on Spotify"
  }
]
