[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:33",
    "text": "just yeah I know so basically this is one page fantastic anyway I think some of you are clever that\u0027s good it\u0027s somebody maybe watch Jenna I mean I headed here but since I\u0027m sharing my chair didn\u0027t summon have a look at Everest weather yeah just I mean if somebody raises its neck or something I\u0027m trying to as well but you know when you\u0027re a single chair just ended or me just put up my communion right so I think she would come can you hear me yeah you are done right yeah good I think you were last time I met you sometime yeah I think so yeah okay so I think we should start and welcome everybody this is the outer working group and my name is hands it off I\u0027m carrying this working group together with VJ goo Bonnie who unfortunately cannot make it he will join em the meet echo and I\u0027m supposed to you will also join me at Java so he should be online shortly and yeah without further ado and if you participate in this meeting this note well applies to you I hope you all know about the note well and I think you know what it means but just to recap it basically means that if you are aware of any IPR related issues if you are aware of any IPR that relates to what we present you and talk about here just you should you must make the working group aware of it and if you don\u0027t know what it means please read those RFC\u0027s they\u0027re closely it\u0027s basically sets the ground roots for this meeting works and so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:35",
    "text": "as chairs let me just work this mmm there\u0027s our area director hai which we went ahead and started is that okay yeah sorry sorry that\u0027s just how we are okay so it\u0027s a good idea that we went head yeah good so and anyway so um the status of the working regen I had a Skype call just the other day and we were talking about how we see the working groups oh really and we really want to focus on finishing the Charter items I think this is what we mentioned also at the last IDF meeting because a lot of this work is actually quite mature and we\u0027ve been we have not been dragging it along but it has been going on for several years actually now and so we really want to focus on finishing the Charter items so this time we set up the agenda very much accordingly to that so the Charter and milestone items come first and we really want to have a good time discussing those so that we can make sure which how they are what are the next steps so we can really move towards finishing them and everything else on the agenda is kind of and we are of course a large and the time for other interesting new topics but that\u0027s best effort basically after the Charter Islands @bj and I actually am really have the goal of finishing the milestones by or at ITF 101 so I just as a look ahead it\u0027s quite likely that both of us will not make it to ITF Singapore so we will probably have a virtual interim meeting instead of the next ITF meeting just for people interesting and for people doing the work in the working group and but we both plan to be at ITF London so our our goal is by that time to finish all the milestones comments Bertrand asked quick question so what is same finishing was I mean submitted last call working group or let\u0027s leave it at finishing right now I wouldn\u0027t nail it down so much I mean if we have something that is close to working group last call and we\u0027re waiting on one final review or something that that that should work I mean you know you know then if let\u0027s say if one item is not finished we can always finish it without having working group meetings but we really want to concentrate this meeting and the one we have in London on finalizing the milestones we have and and obviously yeah I mean principle finalizing means done with working with last call but let\u0027s see how far we get so yeah here\u0027s the agenda and as I was mentioning and before we pretty much did the agenda in a milestone oriented fashion so the first I think seven or eight presentations are really the milestones we have and we want to move those ahead and then afterwards we have I think three or four and other presentations or new interesting stuff or stuff that has been around but it\u0027s not chartered so that\u0027s like I said more or less best effort for now of course we\u0027re interested in those discussions and anybody want to bash the agenda no "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:38",
    "text": "that doesn\u0027t seem to be the case and so what\u0027s the progress in last ITF meeting we actually adopted 3m working group up working group items for actually chartered items or milestones that we have I think the CD and I request routing and that\u0027s partially my fault and also the unit I fight props the authors actually made updates but forgot to make an IETF working group you know make the new name with ITF but we now did it I think Richard you did for both documents so now that is actually done and so here the milestones and what BJ and I did when we prepared this meeting we we we try to give you an overview in the next few slides on how we start with respect to the milestones um so um the submit cause property extension document from our perspective is Stan and Sabina actually will not present on that one today because multicast is now in RFC editor queue and so from from the working perspective we are done with it there are just minor knits here and there I mean I\u0027m following the emails but it\u0027s not really something we need to discuss here if you look at the other M charter my item set who or milestones that we have here from alternative server discovery document down to a post property extension here you see the documents we have and the algebra formance metrics and we think needs some more working group scrutiny but the other ones that you can see a cost calendar and especially also incremental updates and Ekstrom we would like to move to working group last call during this meeting and BJ also send in mail on the mailing list and I\u0027ve seen some nice discussion and we actually had a lot of reviews lately also for these documents I\u0027m not so sure about unified props and maybe when you present Richard M maybe that probably needs also a little more time until they can go to worse working class cause that\u0027s not entirely correct here um hat factor is also something that probably needs a little bit more work um and the CDN request routing it\u0027s also something that needs a little bit more work so basically we have six core milestones three of them we want to move to move to work in glass column we actually and I\u0027ve seen on the email there\u0027s lots of agreement they are quite mature so let\u0027s see how the discussion goes and then we have three more working group milestones sorry where we actually have working group items that by the next two IDs we really want to get done um yeah any other business any other comments doesn\u0027t Richard yeah I do want to say a couple of things that would be one is roughly one\u0027s good time to talk about the interim meeting for IETF because I think you mentioned you and we cannot attend likely not can IVF 100 so roughly what time schedule is and secondly I do want to mention is we\u0027re running a time mini semi with people from Cal Tech from a lot of people and time we mostly around made August in Los Angeles relief it without or impractical Italy\u0027s auto design to apply the ink in the contact HC so I don\u0027t know if for example can\u0027t even more to these two meetings into a single one or not I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:39",
    "text": "don\u0027t know when one\u0027s good time to talk about the business so maybe in a million is all this one sort of for that\u0027s my question and yeah I mean certainly I would encourage you to mention the stuff you\u0027re doing in regarding the large-scale applications and it\u0027s the workshop kind of thing you\u0027re talking about right to mention that on the mailing this explicitly so that people are aware and regarding regular auto entering we reach and I were thinking about something in well instead of a physical meeting in Singapore so we were thinking about something in October or a million knows the deadlines more but in principle you can have a virtual meeting instead of the regular one you just need to set it up on time and we have to check with you but basically we don\u0027t want to meet if we don\u0027t want to have a physical meeting in Singapore because most likely we will not be there so it will be around that timeframe and that\u0027s what we are planning but we can have discussion on emailing this if you if you have enough people that go for a different meeting already earlier for sure that\u0027s we can have that we can do that want to comment but I wouldn\u0027t recommend to go exactly for the time frame because everybody is so busy with it for the community right so I can go a few weeks earlier yeah yeah of course no that\u0027s what I mean I mean that\u0027s why actually that\u0027s what I was trying to say normally when you do something instead you don\u0027t do it during that week but you do it whatever a two weeks before or two weeks after but I think there is an official and no you can do whatever I mean you know whatever you want you have an interim anytime so I would actually recommend you to do it rather between now and the next meeting sure but people have probably closer to the next meeting so probably October time frame is then what we have what we\u0027re thinking yeah okay um yeah I mean if there\u0027s no other business anybody that anybody wants to mention I think we should go quickly to the first presentation that\u0027s cost calendar so Sabine I I hope I have your slides are those the correct sites what screen is that full screen good all right so go ahead yes so yes it\u0027s this is about the latest updates on coach calendar and since last night it\u0027s here so next slide and also previously it was version 1 but we updated on February we collected since the last meeting we collected whatever feedback and so the deeps between the two versions are mainly InDesign updates for backwards compatibility and compatibility with multi just dropped organization and rewarding and cleanup and by the way great thanks to the whole working group "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:39",
    "text": "you said we it\u0027s like okay so we did a couple of minor design updates on the IOT resources sorry sorry so the Canada attribute object in a resource entry now has a mandatory member orko spy planes which is an array of one or more elements indicating the custom name in the IRT entry to which these attributes are tied this is typically in case you have you require or you want to require more of multiple metrics and also to be self-contained so next slide so as an example here for example and also to avoid repeating things you have and you have attributes some of them with for example one hour so next night okay so menu we have other design updates and the request format so that we set now our rule on the members in the request so given that n is the number of requests e metrics so we introduce a an array of n boolean value that just say whether or not you want these very metric or not and with a couple of rules saying that we already must coming exactly n boolean value otherwise the server will return an error and in this field is not present at all so it\u0027s interpreted as you just don\u0027t have any calendar by any metric and this is also called consistency playing supporting my freak-outs calendars and single course calendars so next slide so another minor design update is in the response format so in the custom of responses you have a new mandatory member which is the cross type names again just to be self-contained and well and it will actually will be an array of class names several metrics we also have added the same rules as in section cooler to the two so if the the client request does not provide a member "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:40",
    "text": "calendar or if it provides it with a value equal to false for all the requests across types then the outer server response is exactly as specified in the base protocol and in multiples so you just get the values without a calendar and if the value of member cannon that is equal to false for one of the even requested cost types the auto server must return for this constant a single value as specified in the base protocol so next slide so then in the response format again so for the endpoint post service you have now new members so the cost types and the multicast types and again community and so if there is an agreement about this design so the next step will be to harmonize the text between the map service and basically copy and past obviously how much in use takes place so the next slide so yes then we did some draft organization update so we dropped the very lengthy section 5 with the new spaces because all these use cases are actually for the other sections and if there was a section for the 3 that was a recap of rules related to outer coat calendar which was dropped again as well and the text was moved to the section to the to the tool in the design part and on liability with legacy other projects so next slide yes and we are rewarding well in particular we\u0027ve changed the example metric name which is available bandwidth because this one is actually used in the performance metrics draft and then this is actually a metric that is used for links so we prefer to pick something called banded score which is something that is abstracted again it\u0027s an example but we illustrated it is as a completely abstract expulse a between 0 and 20 of 0 and 500 just to tell you how good the quality is with respect to that it availability with the awareness that ultimately these metric names may have to be two nonsensical names us such as shoe size she\u0027s the case for example for the Arab seem to be much like us so next slide so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:46",
    "text": "yes so we may have a couple of discussion items so shall we consider outer calendar for link metrics such as available bandwidth so then we would have to add a little bit of text to specify the different search between the link labeled metric and entry and path metric shall we also consider also Canada phone for endpoint properties do we consider endpoint properties that whose values are changing over time such as I don\u0027t know color location connection time with respect to time period such as morning noon afternoon evening and there was a working group ease question is it possible that the outer circle has several options of different combinations of pain interval size and number of these accounts for auto clients allowing the auto client to choose or pick from all fine-grained codes Canada the my first answer was yes the server can afford the workload it may propose different Canada attributes for a same cosmic do you have a menu of calendar you pick whatever you want but then the issue is that first of all the client request should stay simple and this would actually require to change the design and format of our two requests and responses and so the basic one of the design options was really to just give you a menu and you pick what you have on the menu too much to me to to remodel the options so well I\u0027m open to the discussion but my point right now is Sabine could you stand a little closer to the mic I think somebody asked on me to echo that they cannot hear so okay yes he better now I think so okay so next slide so the next steps will be final text harmonization between filtered cost map and endpoint cost map service and hope to move it to working group last call and great thanks to Don Legion for fruitful discussion and review feedback okay thank you Sabine I mean any comments discussion Richard hm and I can\u0027t go back to one slides so here\u0027s a while opinion and about of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:47",
    "text": "course we can talk about applying as well is several options of a time interval size times production a central number of interval essentially is I think the design question here is do you think we should allow the server to define different levels of granularity essentially it\u0027s for example so say I can provide a one-minute five minutes 20 minutes one hour units and therefore keep it still tell your whole thing about one day so one so I agree and you need discussion that the request should be simple so there were a lot of options probably complex so it\u0027s the okay for example for the working group to define the following for example design decision that the server should always give the finest green result and therefore the client can do the aggregation would that be a reasonable compromise space I mean if I\u0027m server I can really collect data at a one minute interval our provider by minute and you guys can essentially to aggregation to gather five minutes or one hour or one day interval and I think the the size had me not to be too big because it costs Canada by itself or he\u0027s another China data probably blow up even though by a factor of five but overall it\u0027s small so therefore may not be too bad so therefore that\u0027s my opinion I don\u0027t know if other people here have different opinions yeah I fully agree with that option I mean you can you can schedule all your requests and you do your aggregation value aggregation almost by yourself yeah so um so this is the a members chair head on so in order to move this forward I think if both of you agree and there\u0027s no other seems to be no other opinion in the room why don\u0027t you just state that on the mailing this and if nobody objection and we move ahead like this for me the the issue is rather and how many iterations do we need to get this done so um do you guys agree that you are close to getting done and I mean if you resolve these issues you would think it\u0027s ready for working group last call afterwards correct yeah regarding this question I think it will be very important to say that what the outer server provides as a time interval length it\u0027s the finest that it can provide you should not expect it to provide you a smaller time it brings out so I guess the only tricky here thing is do we want you know document we haven\u0027t is essentially requiring the work for example should for example do we say this server capital should provide the finest granularity and always it may or may be we don\u0027t say anything at all and understanding is this is fine it\u0027s green for this particular user that\u0027s the only thing I see partner shoulder would be right decision no and I I completely understand the issue but so the first question is other opinions in the room of obviously and if they\u0027re if they\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:50",
    "text": "not I think it seems to be that you and sabine richard agree and so maybe we can have a little bit of discussion on this on the mailing list and you just state your way forward and since it\u0027s a working group item then everybody has to call a chance to comment and once we are done with this issue and them other minor issues that mean that you mentioned then we can move to working class call and it doesn\u0027t seem to be completely finalized but I would like still like to have a ham in the room of how many people think that after these issues that we use have been presented are done think that the document is ready for working class call I can from I can take my chair hat off and I think there\u0027s been lots of discussion on the mailing list this document has been around for a while I mean we definitely agree on the approach and it seems to be mature so I just want to like to know of people agree that once these issues have been resolved we can go to work with less call yeah yeah yeah and you can do and having of course if you want to but it\u0027s your judgment as a chair to say this is ready for let\u0027s call okay yeah thank you thank you for reminding me of my powers I feel good I believe in democracy so and I say what I say is right but since we\u0027re here and I think we should do a ham again we\u0027re anywhere only humming off if people think you know these are minor issues and then we can sue move to work in class call we as chairs anyway think mayor we posted this already on the list so yeah so M can I am who\u0027s in favor of moving this soon to working class call please um now who is not in favor please hum now okay so we have the backing of the working group which is always nice you know I can sleep much better now so yeah if there\u0027s no further discussions I mean thank you very much so I think this is and from a chair perspective or from a moving forward perspective I think this is what we wanted it seems there\u0027s some minor issues so I\u0027m you know please resolve them and and impost how you resolve them I think so Richard what you were saying is these are design choices that the working group needs to be aware of so please make them explicit on the mailing list and do an update and as soon as you make the next update we can go to working class call and we will handle it on the mailing list then yeah um okay are there any other comments on this document if not then sabine you can stay you you still have a slot for em context right calendar context it just to be clear this is a different document but since it\u0027s very related we put it on the agenda right afterwards it doesn\u0027t make sense to present it later on because it very much relates but for now the document you just presented right now is the one we see as the milestone and we have to see how we move the other one forward right but you agree with that you right that\u0027s mm-hmm so that\u0027s cost context right and again let me fine okay good just go ahead okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:51",
    "text": "so uh next slide please so this actually so this is about the use cases I skip the first one which was the first motivation well there are several motivations actually to use them and so as you mentioned there was the the the need to have something more fine-grained than a cost calendar even with very small time slots such that such as like 10 seconds or 15 seconds but the the the the story was about a Yui willing to have a calendar of I know how nice the connection quality is but then on its on its own side it can acquire an indicator saying that okay unattended data for example is allowed or not and this hints whether the the actual value given by the calendar tends to better or tends to worse so and there is now there are those two other use cases and I brought them here with respect to the exchanges we had with the pun Archie and this one was actually a more an older use case that the one of the calendar typically when you user equipment wants to know via which access path to connect to an application endpoint and it can use Wi-Fi or cellular and this actually depends the cost of the call or the quality of the connection pens on access type and SLA for example there is another use case which is even older which is related to CDN applications and so some people raised the need to have a cost map where values were depending on qualitative criteria such as policy so the feeling is that it is cumbersome to define a metric associated to context c1 or c2 or CN it is cumbersome to get any cost map especially because of time because of volume and actually the client would be better off just having one metric value with n options so next slide ok so I introduced here the new use cases that are motivated by the discussion with the path aware networking research group and there was a meeting yesterday with a couple of nice presentation and one of them was actually addressing the problem of an end system and host trying to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:54",
    "text": "figure out the capability or the quality of the several party possible path it could actually take well especially here with respect to connection so so this is actually related to the use case to in the previous slide so you would like to figure out shall I use I don\u0027t know shall I use LAN shall I use my phone shall I use Wi-Fi and on which equipment and actually do I have an option at all so that was actually yeah it relates to multi-party but the purpose is is not here to establish multiple paths it\u0027s to have to allow the end host to have a clue of what how the properties on some of the paths are so next slide please okay so the approach to address these use cases is to extend the cost information specified in the base protocol by providing so far a same cost metric several possible cost value where each value does depend on qualitative criteria as opposed to time based criteria so it does not depend on time it depends on like access or SLA or UGA or what-have-you so to this end we propose to add a member called cost context associated to a cost type name in the IRT so this cost context has members cost ID names and and a set of context parameters which are is a an array of attributes array who just indicate with respect to what you can have the value and where these attributes can be combined among the attributes arrays so we also add a member context Bahrami in the metal outer queries in responses that contain the select the combination of attributes that has been selected by the client and as a result the outer server response is an array of value where each value corresponds to one of the compare to each combination so the applicable auto services again our filtered cost map and endpoint cost service so next slide so here you have an example so in the IRD so this is for use case two for example so you have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:57",
    "text": "well so the comments have respect some Wi-Fi line land with SLA one SLA to exit a3 and for example the client can request to combination so I want value for sale and SLA 3 and also for Wi-Fi and SLA 3 and then in the response you have something like that so this is the context parameter combination that has been selected by the client and so it\u0027s the same as in the request input and here you have the two values corresponding each to the combination so next slide so since the first version presented at the in Chicago we have addressed the working group concerns in particular on the near real-time changes in wireless networks so in section 2.1 we have clarified the meaning of the example cellular connection cost and we have named it abstracted air f cost because air f cost has a connotation that may be worrying too especially as auto is not supposed to be a real-time information provider so we also added definition on drools on context attributes and backwards capability compatibility sorry so in section 4 we mentioned that an auto service must provide of course values as in in the base but protocol if no context attributes have been requested or if it is not if the client puts a combination that is not supported so we updated the example combination in the ILD use case 1 and updates it also the filtered cost map requests and clarified some rewarding so next slide so here again you have an example on the use page one because we I think one of the discussions on this draft will be how to smartly arrange the encode the logical combination of context attributes for example 1 or design option is to 2 to encode the context parameters related to a list so next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:13",
    "text": "slide so again in the in the draft so you there is also the possibility that the there is the client just extensively indicates all the combination it wants meaning you da you da and uplink and so and so the response of course conveys all this combination but we feel that this may be like too long so we are trying to come up with a smart design so every suggestion is more than welcome so next slide okay so then we come to the design choices and discussion so we want to keep the cost type definition as specified in RFC in the base protocol we want to keep listing the supported context attribute in information resources so the attributes are encoded in JSON strings with constant value to moderate the number of context parameters and avoid too many indirection and workload for the further server though the the reason is that we we figure that the context parameters are quite qualitative and expected to have few values and there was a discussion on that topic with a Richard I remember if I remember so about the flexibility the lack of flexibility to have like a list of hard-coded parameters so because the first idea was to have only a little number of values so the question would be can a context parameters take numerous values and then in that case is it isn\u0027t it actually rather a qualitative property or a qualitative metric so that\u0027s the discussion actually we I think we need to have and yeah if you couldn\u0027t go back one slide so yes and of course as I mentioned come up with a small design for logical combination of context attributes and also we don\u0027t want to introduce any new mid media type so next slide so the next step is to collect the working group feedback on suggestions and also to work on examples for the endpoint property service and either to adopt extension or consider it for a next okay thank you Sabine any comments yeah there are comments please "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:13",
    "text": "hi sobbing and I remember that you have mentioned two possible solutions to provide the contact parameters right wrong is maybe we can move the slides to the examples okay yes this one this wrong is that the combination in each array is an O and the combination between the array is an end um one suggestion is that maybe we should make a specification for the order of this combination for example and the return value of the order of the returned value can be the UDN and uplink then your the end and downlink but it can also be the UDN and uplink and then the yurina beauty in a uplink right there are possible combinations and the situation might be more complex if the arrays are more than two maybe there are three arrays and for a raise right yeah I started to play with the three arrays and of course we need to specify rules allowing the client and the server to understand how the combination what the combination is and what how we map it to the array of return values that\u0027s so sure and so definitely well this is actually more at least and of course we should also set rules saying that okay within for example you should not have an array with UDI and uplink I mean if you refused if you want to design an arrangement either you either you list extensively all the combinations and then or then you can afford in one array the other example so this is one option but it\u0027s kind of can become it may become very long yeah so and this is the second option trying to come up with a smart design and with the rules explaining how you interpret this arrangement yeah and Richard before we go ahead there\u0027s another comment on meet echo from qua the question is we\u0027re adding the context to the cost introduce extra privacy concerned and is that what you wanted to say Richard as well yeah so the question "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:13",
    "text": "is it doesn\u0027t introduce extra privacy concern and he says he goes on I presume that information such as cost of different SLA is private to only providers and the client who use the service and I think it\u0027s a valid comment I mean some of this stuff is private yeah yes some of this stuff is private but yeah there is the concern that somebody can capture so if my application within my phone for example sends a request somebody could capture and find out while which SLA I have but on the other hand it\u0027s well then I think the client should be aware of that and if the client does not want to get the cost with respect to the SLA then it does not request it so yeah I\u0027m not sure I buy that answer because that means that the users are fully aware and the client might be know what\u0027s going on so I remember in the beginning of the other working group ridgemount he always would say that he doesn\u0027t want other people to know what ISP contract he has because he would think if he has the premium contact and burglary is more probable and things like that whatever that means I mean just trying to give you an example that I\u0027m there I think it\u0027s a good comment here and you should definitely discuss it in the document I mean ITF rfcs now needs privacy considerations as a must so it must have so you should probably at least discuss it yeah yeah so I agree but because if you don\u0027t if it\u0027s any point in time this we move up to the IAS GU for sure we\u0027ll get these comments so better to discuss it now and if you want yeah so so one option will be to yes to make a section about awareness on privacy concern with respect to some of the context parameters all right just as message yeah so virtually and I do you only use this opportunity to overlay generalize the prompt slightly more to an overall prom and about the type system in Auto so opinion this one will the reason a lot you should somehow is about type system so type student of course is a very general very big prom in computer science I get a big part of a computer science program language is about type systems right because the philosopher can process all word lately is used syntax to impose semantics and catch all bugs and so that\u0027s why you move to other strong types design and so on the very early part of ours ours is seventy to eighty five uses what I will probably call a hybrid type system hybrid you know for nonsense example for every cost type we have two members and the Casa metric and Cosmo Cosmo indicate the datatype exam a numerical or ordinal and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:13",
    "text": "cosmically denoted semantics we do a cross product to indicate like a type system so that\u0027s way we import this is called a hybrid and because we don\u0027t want to go over for example like a Java which in haven\u0027t you fine you cannot even define for example of this type of system you must say for example you cannot see end or wanting for Alice Amanda give you cannot see is the temperature temperature would give you most man takes like type system and for this one if we add I bad or I think a form cementing polynomial contacts a parameter is wonderful is very helpful or from the grammar point of view and then we probably don\u0027t will start to read a break the types in a sense that the return value now would be a array but a Cosmo will still be in America ordinal so which means now one part of type students say okay it\u0027s a number and the other halfs oh my grades are ready we start to really see such a break I don\u0027t have the subs from this very complex problem and but overall I think that\u0027s probably your merging is that\u0027s why you like clever encoding but very likely my god the feeling is if we could move beyond to substantial we probably come up with another type system and I try to look at around even per exam types in some Yamato and so on they also cannot solve your problem it\u0027s mostly elaboration you want it you want to avoid generate a here a number of times for example some strong types is older I understand I mean I think you made a valid point in the end it depends on also how flexible you want this to be I mean you could restrict it and then certainly make the problem and a little bit smaller but that\u0027s something that yeah I think it\u0027s future discussion yeah fewer discussion very likely for example what I\u0027m thinking of but there\u0027s a big reason why Java eventually all C plus a go to a fog lamp directly attacks complete stuff and that proudly conserves from but where you probably should talk about this one and of course if we are we want we\u0027re willing to abandon or because I\u0027m fully stretch and they type system we\u0027re okay but otherwise I\u0027ll probably need to go to more complex type system but I think from a simplicity is cement upon where this is a very useful there\u0027s Sabine there\u0027s another thank you Richard I think that\u0027s a good good long term and point for this document and there\u0027s not a comment from Sebastian on Java and he s have been the examples contain strings such as land Wi-Fi etc but they need to be defined and registered via Jana or in this document or what is view your view or or do you assume that a different document will so if this question is you know the terms you use of a do you think this document defines the more do they need to be registered or I think there would be a need to be registered because as father the the other working draft may end up that we were required to instead of using Wi-Fi and LAN to use something like blue oh sweet and salt so I think we well with respect to everything relating to seminar and wireless with a the next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:13",
    "text": "step will also include looking at the other IETF work to see whether they have registered such property somewhere and also and if not or if needed consider also registering some of these properties to IANA okay I think we close this discussion now because we\u0027re running a little bit out of time and this is not currently not a my son item but thank you very much Sabine from from a chair perspective I think this is interesting work and but again it\u0027s not so currently the milestone is addressed by your other documents so we have to see how this moves along um I guess for now we just you you should move it ahead because certainly there seems to be interested in it but we have to see how that fits in the current charter or if we how to proceed with it right okay okay so next up is let me look at the agenda the next one is incremental updates Richard is that one yes it is okay so I\u0027ll talk about incremental updates and I believe this is a very important extension to also and we have done a lot work already and I will always see that is essentially the main driving force is always windy and share your very first version and mostly I\u0027m trying to take over as to do a lot of revisions about of course that you give should come back soon okay so next slide please so here\u0027s overview of what we have changed because it\u0027s a very important capability therefore it\u0027s making a lot of cheese we got a lot of feedback a lot of comments and so you know high-level overview of a summary is we have made of quite a lot of changes if you do a diff RFC documents you can see a lot of changes from oh five which is version five from March you have 98 to the current version which is oh seven a lot of changes and the main goals of the Trina are - number one is we want to prepare for a review because I think there\u0027s tremendous force that we won\u0027t finish a document and number two is actually very important a drive to the change is handle new use case for example the city I use case turns out to really be very very beneficial to occur between author working group and see a working group because a change allowed made a lot of decisions eventually to be coming some other way we can anime clothes design decisions and to summarize we made four types or changes for this document and while make more generic statements and could be more generic number two is we want to make a benefit to be more expedient some people still not fully clear about the benefits and I restart a document and make the text more friendly but during launch the day and we stop being and maybe I get bad job go back some lachan this because I will try and make it either great and last major change is we finally decide to allocate "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:15",
    "text": "some patch so that is a major thing to grecian effort so what else if you give more words so next slide please so now let me first say a few words about the generic changes and I would like to get approval from the working group so here\u0027s compares I\u0027m using our c diff to really show that type of changes I\u0027m making I hope other people are also easier to see because there\u0027s some comments last time was is incremental updates it\u0027s actually really limited to although all can be more broadly and therefore the major change is we want to emphasize that the designs will come jr. so therefore if you look at this document for example here\u0027s I\u0027m only giving you a very simple example of changes which we made and for example the right hand side is an older version oh five the life and inside is a newer version which is oh seven and even look at the first paragraph for example look at first paragraph I love abstract and the old abortion would say alcohol making decisions until I end Otto server provides Network and custom apps and user maps another client can determine the cost and make a decision and so on and if you look at the newer version we suggested also it\u0027s providing information resources and networking apps and the customer is essential just simple examples so there are a lot of such changes across the document and we\u0027re trying to make sure that we\u0027re always talking about the generic resources and not specific in the custom apps or so that\u0027s a one type of meter change next one please second one which I really want to get a get across and get a feedback and so on is the following is that we want emphasize that we want to provide two key types of benefits from Stockholm and I\u0027m hoping that people all agree and we will eventually even theirs and their additional reviews I\u0027m hoping other people tell us Oh finally get across very well I\u0027ll still not we want emphasize two one is the benefits is essential latency reduction I\u0027m meaning the changes can be forced immediately so that\u0027s benefit number one and then if a number two one emphasize as well is that the changes is only incremental minion on whole changes therefore we want to get you two component across now for solid story structure document to make sure that those pounds are get across very clearly for example even look at document over here we said to achieve two benefits wine and - you know Chris document we\u0027re trying to use a little slightly less structured working and so on I know we\u0027re talking that this one it really can\u0027t get across so that\u0027s the second immediate chain is again around across the whole document which is make it clear next slide please so next one is a major restructure and I would like to get a feedback and get a comments from people so here is the right-hand side eighth is old structure and live hand side is a newer structure so if you compare this to structure changes you can see the later product we don\u0027t make a lot of changes for example one big part is we move a lot of stuff into a single background session so we add a term section we move a lot of atom SS e "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:15",
    "text": "JSON merge patch and do some hatch into the single background section in Section four and you know careers design I could they\u0027re spread out all over the other sections and nobody said that\u0027s it really move everything into the single background and then we have overview of the background and you know the old version is we have the ghini of assistant exam section to not become section five and this is may or may not design because maybe people now for example when people reading this and your version is Oh what exactly bigger picture so therefore if people can really give us a little bit feedback about which won\u0027t work out better I think we are more than happy to really take a feedback and revise so that\u0027s a major change okay next slide please so next one and which I really want emphasized is finally we have decided to add into JSON into okay the motivation is very simple all working group all well isla falling multipack IP personal I believe it\u0027s quite elegant in many many ways you have a object model and you say you send a multipack we don\u0027t even see much at all and you March the car model and you pack incremental you get a dart encoding very beautiful very elegant and non nonsense words at all and but unfortunately this one cannot handle or race very well for every single array you between a single element you might catch you have to replace the whole array and array can be a lot for example 1000 or 2000 numbers and you have to replace the whole thing the benefit of JSON packed with RFC 69 OH - it would allow you to do Janaka operations and in critical for example it would allow you to do or reoperation for example take a look at very simple example over here and this a network map for example to talk about groupings of a whole network and so on the left hand side is a network way that one would have two IP addresses and two IP prefixes and so on and you want for example make a simple change and the prefix 1:1 92020 slide 24 from this array in what you don\u0027t have choice muscle defined pay the one to be the new array element which value is now too bad in this example but you cannot do like a Delian element but by introducing jeezum patch and you can see operation is replaced and path is essentially it\u0027s essential in the XPath model and go to all wheel all the way for example this element and you can see remove so there was suddenly now we can handle all or risk which is incredible it new capability and of course if it as a comparison for people who like elegance personally less elegant become now for every single case being specified what operation is which element you\u0027re modifying and what the new value is and you would have to do to specify which is overlap over the helm on topic so that\u0027s a major change X lights please so because of this a change and there\u0027s a basic cascading changes across the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:18",
    "text": "document for example if you look at the old document in the capability in terms of information resources you know the one you\u0027re always able go hey I\u0027m a server I can specification more patch based on as my immediate I could really change it in the dual incrementally encoding but not more so now suddenly we have to really the server say I can encode all kind of types now and all authority station will become more complex okay next slide please okay so those are the major changes alibis the document has been pretty pretty stable for a while now and those are the major next steps which were planning and number one is we want to take a full pass and I out terms in the term section and there\u0027s a review today I think all yesterday asking a section and now we have placeholder but we have now that you find all the terms yet because we don\u0027t have your terms some utilize them somewhat inconsistent so therefore we\u0027re trying to take a pass and number two is feedback from couple people is the following that they want us to really have a consistent usage of all the require eases mass should may and so on and somehow completely more consistent way so therefore I think we\u0027re going to take past will address all those comments number two and number three is that\u0027s actually a comment which we decide to really accept is that finish section 1105 this a new section in in document we should say for all of you if you wanna use incremental push what kind of requirements you must have even though we see what I want to be future proof I don\u0027t believe we can be future proof what if someone defined something really funny probably will not perform very well sort of for what we are asking the requirements section okay if you this one they\u0027re likely this one will not be for example specially UMass and so on would be recommendations okay if you want to this one we recommend that you do the service things certain ways and so for example it should be tax base recent base and so on alibis problems will not do very well and our plan is a final model final version by August of force and that\u0027s our next step and of course one issue which we don\u0027t plan to will address in this document but the more and more we look at it stock we realize is probably working group should think about this it should be a new patching method for Jason multipath is very elegant but unfortunately it has limitations here some pan is very very like essentially powerful complete a sample encodings not an elegant and maybe I could give others good use cases maybe people should you find a new incremental dart and coding algorithm or specification for JSON objects but record this is now the problem alpha working group right therefore be something for other people think about and for ours right so as chair I want to second what you emphasize that this is something that so the last point is something interesting to think about but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:18",
    "text": "not within the current charter of the alto working great total that great good so we have first thank you Richard any comments questions a mic so I can make a personal comment I think the addition of Jason patch was very important for the CDN I use case which personally I\u0027m very interested in and so this is not a chair comment by the first no comment and the second comment which I had now on I would like to make is also this one Vijay and I discuss we really want to move this to working last call but as with Sabine\u0027s document it seems you need to have another round of minor comments at least you have to address but also I should have mentioned this before I think lady we\u0027ve seen good discussions on the mailing this so I think the working group is becoming more active and we having like cross comedy some people read other documents I think it\u0027s very good so in fact what we have here is all the result of the good discussion we have so as chess we want to encourage that still we would like to you know move this sooner or later to be ready so it seems to me again here I would like I know Mia I don\u0027t have to but I would like to hear a hum of the working group agrees with Vijay is in my statement that this should be ready for working class call after the minor issues that you still have here need to you know are have been addressed so I\u0027m if you think and this is ready for working last card pretty soon M please Sam now lo nobody\u0027s having if you don\u0027t think this is ready for working with last call please um now I think people were not aware that I\u0027m taking a hum and so for the record there was no reaction either way but I think the discussion on the mailing that\u0027s actually a lot of people have commented that they think this is ready and the chairs think so too ok you have a comment sabine yeah please go ahead i would say though we had a discussion on that draft at lunch and most of the content is here but i think the main one of an important point would be really to structure and clarify the role and between the the rick who sends a request for what this this needs some additional rewarding or restructuring wonderful so let me respond to i think starting trying to summarize the the wonderful wonderful comment during a lunch and i believe what she ever come after the most substantial then there\u0027s a very short comment over here and if you look at this increment updates this one can not only be between a alcohol clan and auto server we always talk about we want by the way i think probably it\u0027s about you will talk about it is like your main synchronization everyone multiple server to be synchronised this one can be the protocol so this one can be not only for example between auto clan and auto "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:18",
    "text": "server can be a protocol for in out of one auto server to push updates to an auto server to allow synchronization in a very compact very nice way the encoding to Compaq and approach is immediate so there will be very powerful I think the sobbing Sir John one position will be sold a moment we somehow imply assume is client-server therefore a lot of like any faction would be assumed to be implicit I think I suggest we make this one more X place therefore make people go that one can be bumpy eventually if you applied for setting of even synchronization of course for this setting which one the client which is server and it can be a client they can be a server I think that\u0027s a wonderful comment and I don\u0027t believe I can send a common online or maybe any wording most ideal like a bourbeau but I think that\u0027s a wonderful comment which we plan to address probably immediately in the next few days I understand but this also to me seems like a minor thing in principles just you need to refresh that it\u0027s more explicit right you were assuming things implicitly but yeah crack crack right so working in precise again it\u0027s not a design change one agree okay if there if there are no other and comments I would like to because the agenda we already a little bit behind so I\u0027m going to push thank you Richard and the next document is cDNA footprints and capability advertisement and Richard you want me to present this one right yeah so yeah this is a document that actually am Richard thank you very much you resubmitted today under the working group item name so actually Richard and I had a Skype call and a couple of weeks ago and we were so busy with the content of the document that we\u0027re issued a new version but we totally forgot that it got accepted us working who by them so we did this now and the system so as a reminder I think we presented this last ITF as well so the city and I working group has decided to come up with a JSON format for what they call footprint and capabilities advertisement and there\u0027s an RFC which I\u0027m co-authoring and by the way or have Porter that defines this JSON object but the CDN I working group does not specify how the news JSON objects get from client to server or vice versa actually server to client and so there has been a session to define a new address service and the city and I working group Estes I decided this and we we have moved this as a new milestone for the alto working group and so the specification we need is a document that specifies how you transport these we call them FCI JSON objects foot building capabilities interface of the CDN I interfaces how you put transport these JSON objects via Al job so yeah I mean last polity of course you want to do as much as you can with the regular algebra Tikal we have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:18",
    "text": "but in some cases we need some extensions and that\u0027s exactly what we\u0027re exploring here so I don\u0027t think I think I explained this last time also and I don\u0027t think we have to go into much detail here but I think Richard you made this guys thank you very much I think they\u0027re very good they give people what we want to do here is give people an example how this looks like so the semantics are pretty much specified in RFC 8 zero zero eight and we have a another CDN I am document that says the media type is applications - CDN I and so and here you have an example also on the right side how these you know Jason objects look like and we have another RFC that you fans for the footprint is I think this is RFC 8 0 0 6 in CDN I metadata and document CDN I was a bit complicated where we put it also Richard we had a discussion the Syrian our working group was not very good at putting all the registries into a into a single document so they\u0027re scattered around a bit so this is why it might be a little bit confusing to this just to summarize what has been defined before well what we need to do now is come up with I\u0027ll just service that can you know um transport these documents and this is rather generic and so this is actually a summer summary of what the city and I working group has decided why use Alto because their service discovery there is a good transport for JSON objects ready with error handling actually security wasn\u0027t thing we discussed I don\u0027t think it\u0027s even here on this slide have versioning so other has everything and also now incremental updates um so yeah if you look at the original Alto and protocol this is how this could look like you would have a new media type that you\u0027d say application CD and I that you could ask for and you would you would get it and so I don\u0027t think there\u0027s much to say here this I think is a better and for people who are not familiar this is what we\u0027re actually talking about so you\u0027re looking at an FC I object and will be of type application slash CDN I and and well it would use the regular altro error handling and I think Richard the point we should discuss this maybe later on the second point you make here we need to agree on a name of this envelope I think Kevin you seven all draft where it\u0027s called Sita and I FC I and I think that\u0027s what I would probably use here too and for the capabilities envelope so to speak and but these are the documents they\u0027re sorry the JSON objects we\u0027re basically talking about so Richard I you have actually done a good job at looking at error handling with your team because you are the expert on the alto error handling and it seems to be that the actual alpha error codes we have are sufficient so we might have something that is very seedy nice specific but also from my perspective if the regular auto error codes work more or less I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:18",
    "text": "think we shouldn\u0027t do much more here because we don\u0027t want to you know specify too many little things if this works and this seems to be the case in regular error handing is pretty okay the thing that we did need to update and Richard you just presented that this is the incremental updates so it turned out that Jason merge patch was not sufficient to do incremental updates with the CNI objects so now the latest SSC document the ultra incremental updates document also has Jason patch every Jason patch this is very we can also do incremental updates for CNI objects which was actually a key requirement also from the city and I working group so for CDN is actually very important that you can do incremental updates um yeah I don\u0027t want to discuss if it\u0027s more important than for the peer-to-peer use case that\u0027s a lengthy discussion you can have but it\u0027s certainly very important for CD and I for CDN sat interconnect to do incremental updates and server initiated updates and so there we have Jason patch now so that issue is basically soft yeah here and now Richard I\u0027m presenting this I might have a slightly different opinion than you I think it I appreciate that you look into advanced design so maybe you can also comment here a bit there are of course things you can do better you can do advanced filtering of FCI because the current filtering is not designed to do that in the ultra protocol and you can do other things that are you know integrating ultra with FCI there are certainly certain things who can do but maybe to the next slide that the current drive focuses on the basic design so I would like to emphasize this because again this is the Meissen we have on the Charter and I was saying in the beginning BJ and I really would like to finish this so now I have my chair head on so we think the basic design is actually feasible in the next couple of weeks months to get done and and then we have to go from there but I I personally think that the the current document we have would just do the basic design and leave further optimizations for further documents and we really intend to work on this and obviously you have a time frame that really try to move this ahead so so yeah so what about what we try to do in this presentation give the working group an overview of what we\u0027re doing since it\u0027s a working group item now and so we actually think that we can what we call the basic design move ahead pretty quickly so error handling seems to be done incremental update seems to be done we just need to if you look at the current document you\u0027ll see that we need a little bow it\u0027s but we don\u0027t envision major you know design choices anymore so the the major ones we just present it so yeah we want to move this ahead and then yeah get it done as fast as possible but you never know if we\u0027re doing the work you find out something that needs a little more attention than you should raise in the millions and since we already running a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:18",
    "text": "little little bit behind I would stop talking now are there any comments on this document and Richard make one can you go to slide number seven so I do want Caterpie working group opinion yes oh one more maybe yeah I\u0027m sorry another lie can make a number smaller like maybe five oh yeah yeah this like so I don\u0027t want get the people feeling about for example the the envelope for example for the object forget them look at all the alcohol object-- will have a meta amazing information about for example what abortion it is and what resources related to a set of four is very nice the transport framework and for all the real object there\u0027s always an able of a name for example we have network map we have a custom map where all stuff the convention we\u0027re using in the past always is we take a media type and extract a media type as a model name for example you know possibly have application slash Auto / network and Mac plus Jason and application slash Auto cost map slash just annual that\u0027s why we got an envelope but unfortunately a seeing-eye naming is that\u0027s all I have class Jason sort of all there\u0027s inconsistency over here so but like I said I\u0027m fine with CD and I / f CI a-- but if other people have strong opinions about envelope and I\u0027m I\u0027m more than happy to listen so that\u0027s a quick home maybe I can just say my opinion I mean the CD and I specifications are done so there\u0027s not much we can do here I don\u0027t see this as a major problem it\u0027s not nice but yeah I guess you referring more to extensibility right if there were B\u0027s different CD and I objects that we would transport and yeah so I think if we leave it as the upper m and type as it is I think it\u0027s okay but the city and I on the lower part where you say need to agree on something we should call Syria an ifc i to be able to in the future have other types of things we want to transport there any other comments okay so anyway this is work in progress we don\u0027t want to they\u0027re not you know many decisions we need to ratify here doing this meeting so we just want to drop that you so i go back to my try to get up the next presentation so the next presentation is the next presentation is pat vector so dawn right yeah did you send an update right on path vector is that i think that should be the latest one yeah that\u0027s the one from this one so please go ahead so this is again a milestone and but as a reminder we think this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:19",
    "text": "needs a little bit more work but of course we want to pass back to her job is to address network graph milestone and we have achieved an agreement to adopt assist dropped as a working group document because that three main issues are raised and some english resolution was up proposed at ninety eight meeting and during the ninety airmedia an internal meeting efforts are made to finalize this design issues let\u0027s review those three designs it shows the three teachers are divided into two categories so response format and the request format the response format includes the information structure of the of providing perspectives and how to prove how to encode each part of this information structure the request format in sokurah format for clients to get the perspective information next so start with an information structure to provide perfectly informations to remove the redundancy we have separates as a perfect the complete prospecting information into two parts a customer and a property map they together providing the perfect information so the problem is how to provide these two maps to clans a Sturman approach is that we extend the current cost map structure to enable a cosmic data and a problem map data into a single response this solution is actually breaks the current structure of the Kozma and the media type so another solution that is adopted at the last meeting is that the perfect information that is the cosmic and the property map and send with two separate responses that is encoded into two separate messages we use the current cost map to provide the information of upper structure Network elements and a property map to provide a place with abstract meta elements this solution works but introduces a new problem is the snapshot consistency so our decision made this time is that we will keep on solution to that is we keep the auto "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:21",
    "text": "cost map media-type keep its structure and we still use the property map to provider properties in the 2-step query mentioned last time is the applied to support that client may independently query the property maps for several times as it likes and major change set is that we introduce a new media type to deal with the problem of snapshot consistency it is that the media type is named multipad slash related and the details of this media type is defined in the IFC 27 823 87 this media type enables multiple resources in a single response so let\u0027s use an example to see houses media type works if the client needs multiple resources in a single response it has to declare in its accept field herbs HTTP requests to include three media types together the multi path - related and together with the autocross map and automotive net so a typical response would include all this through informations first as a multi-part slash related media tab is to indicate that this response includes multiple response responses and a boundary upon duranium is used to is used as a separator between the different responses so here we use the - - is followed by the funder name to indicate a start of each response and two dashes followed by the founder name and two dashes to indicate at the end of the whole response after dividing after deciding the information structure of the coast pass factors with need to decide how to encode each part of past actors so to provide perfectly information in a cosmic we have to know what the exact cost type is a concert i p-- includes a cost mood and a cosmetic in the existing design idea a custom mode indicated data types of relating value for example Scott mode being numerical or ordinal implies that the cost value is a float or int number respectively and a cosmetic indicates "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:22",
    "text": "the semantic meaning of the return value so to be consistency with to be consistent with current design the cost mode for path vector must indicate that each element in the cost map is an array object consisting of Z and is the cosmetic have to indicate that the return value is a path consisting of x\u0027 in ease so we introduce a new custom order with the cost mode a new Casa type with a cost mode being encoded English during array and the cost metric being coded in the string and need - pass after the after dealing with the response format of pass vector information become to discuss about query format current design the ideas is that we only support the cross-product query format of the auto service this pure format intuitive system problem for example when a client is only interested in two dependent independent floors but when using course product queries it has to query for related flows so at 98 meeting we have proposed a new query for match support to the call flows it works well but then we found it is not necessary to introduce such conflict extensions so we have notices patched two extensions in the FCS draft we found that without extending the call flow clear format the server is still able to provide the correct information of path factors and once the client wants to use this perspective information efficiently it can just settle unrelated flows to zero to remove the influence of those unrelated follows how many slides more do you have we are running a little bit behind schedule just one or two okay so with all the decisions made we have come to the specific specification part we extended extension current version tag object to include an optional field "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:22",
    "text": "curly ID and an extension to the ID resource entry to include an optional field name the property maps for clients to query the property maps and look unless the response part of the cost map or the endpoint course map is extended that is the V tag field must be included in the cosmic or an endpoint cost map being able to provide the query ID information another another decision is that when the client wants a multi resource response it has to provides a multiparty - slash related media type and extension for the property map is that in the except in preparing meters of the property map it has an optional field query ID it is related to the retag field of a custom map or an endpoint Cosman so the next steps for the past factors is that we will add the consistency principle in the text and so security informations may need to be specified more clearly in the next phase me yeah thank you Don so and I want to actually say that I very happy that we\u0027ve seen lots of discussion on also this document on the marinus in comments and so my question is are there any other questions we are running quite a bit behind schedule so if there are no important issues that somebody wants to raise I would rather like to move on because as we said in the beginning we don\u0027t want to ham on this one today anyway it\u0027s it\u0027s good work in progress and I thank you for updating us on the on the design choices you made my question is maybe to the authors Don Richard and how much were more work does this need from your perspective ok I don\u0027t want to actually read one thing would be probably single baixa feedback which one\u0027s thinking from working group is the following is the adoption or multi-part encoding so if we accept that one then we\u0027re opening and I don\u0027t believe it as a lot of complexity is central to following for exam RFC or the email there are all your the multi-part encoding and if we allow this one suddenly we have tremendous a new capability to transfer all the network information resources that\u0027s the major design decision I think any feedback or strong objection from a group probably as early to know as possible we wonderful Love Hurts I\u0027ll give you that feedback right now so actually I the multi-part is something we have typically in standard libraries in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:22",
    "text": "designs for code so this is good I don\u0027t mean to be a wet blanket about SSE but this does raise the question as to this technique which is usual and customary in terms of event processing you know should we and I hate to suggest it but I\u0027m going to but should we consider maybe at least for the moment looking at this technique being pushed back into SSE because the technique we\u0027re doing in SSE with the event boundaries right is something that would be a little bit odd to parse from a developer perspective and this is actually very good in the sense that its usual and customary I mean if that\u0027s what people and if you as an implementer or speaking for implementers feel that way I certainly don\u0027t have lots of objections I mean it certainly would slow down the publication of SSE but consistent right so I don\u0027t write if it\u0027s a valid point we should consider it yeah so um are there any other opinions maybe John Richard you want to comment on that it would be helpful you know for someone who hires people to have a consistent skill set that\u0027s very consistent with with engineers who actually my multi-part and and a lot of the mine related stuff is understood it\u0027s a little esoteric but I can point them to specs the SSE spec looks a little odd from from that perspective as a hiring manager for devs so yeah yeah this is great this is great it\u0027s just a just raises the question right yeah again as chairs we are really concerned on making progress with respect to publishing RFC\u0027s but on this at the same time we don\u0027t want to do that at the expense of doing something that is inconsistent or doesn\u0027t make a lot of sense so you\u0027re sitting the boundary really yeah so so yeah let\u0027s discuss it and on the mailing this maybe or further and I mean SSE is still not done so there\u0027s still a good opportunity if it were already you know M Lyle if it were a little bit further down the road okay but at this point it\u0027s probably still a good chance that we yeah it\u0027s good I could put the time is perfect because otherwise if I says it already penalized you probably cannot be do it this is probably one of the last times we\u0027re kind of accepted there\u0027s another comment yeah go ahead yeah so from Xiao Qiang a quick comment for issue three the cross product weary and response will give the out to client information more than she needs implying previously on the contrary the paid flows does not have this issue pardon it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:26",
    "text": "is it a power to the security problem yeah I think there is some trade-offs yeah and for example and cross product in from cross products curious assent the server is going to send a more detailed information maybe about network and if we use this cross product information clear format what can benefit I think it may be that the the client is able to hide it\u0027s possible datasets for example if the client query exactly with the call flow query format yeah it\u0027s me maybe I can shorten this discussion I think it\u0027s if you look at the comments I think it\u0027s it\u0027s a good comment so basically it\u0027s saying cross product query might have a privacy implication and PID flows don\u0027t and but I think you should just consider discuss it with your with maybe on the mailing this but also with the authors and either way I mean either you you consider it and you go for one or the other or if you go for something that has privacy vacations as I was mentioning whose have been before just mentioned them explicitly right added privacy considerations discussion section and discuss it yeah yeah okay but I think Don you can stay because you have the next presentation right unified props all right yeah em well we have only five minutes so I hope you can make it in five minutes you have allocated five minutes and we are running ten minutes behind so I can only give you five minutes please go ahead next night so updates where we how make about the part we have is that according to the to do lies the forms ITIF 98 meeting and firstly we have specified a single problem namespace that we underlying that documents defines the unified prop the names perspired a single property name space rather than being scope to buy a specific domain another thing is that which I Nora generalized the dependency relation relationship to general case and so so audio version dropped only mention of PID top domain well depending on our network map and we also proposed that a n domain world and a cosmic or an endpoint cosmic and maybe as a new proposal domain may depend on other resources and another thing is that with declares that um the learners to met prefix match rule for the ipv4 and ipv6 domain will introduces but not introduces multiple inheritance and a small mistake corrected is that value for the property value for the this ipv4 address is the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:28",
    "text": "v1 rather than v2 and if there is in network maps so server is able to provide maybe and pass one Maps or Internet address and today\u0027s to prop the values for multiple domains and the multiple properties capabilities if the server declares multiple domains and multiple domain types and multiple prototypes in a single capability it has to ensure that each wrapped type is supported by each domain or it has to separate them into different services and the uses field in the resource entry is that um a so if a papdi map videos case is that if a problem a property map depends our network map resources it has to declare that it only depends on a specific network element resource but no not you know maybe two or more and to general case is that the uses field must not contain two resources of the same type and then which clarifies that the value for the type property value to be defined to have no value must be a Johnson non value the section five point five is the same as a section four point five is to declare the u.s. is field in the use of entry and the ending domains that we propose a new domain named a ne and the domain specific and the trashiest is the same as PID name specified in RFC seventy to eighty five there is no hierarchy or inheritance rule associated with this domain and the relationship to cost Maps and an pankot map needs to be discarded more ok how many more do you have because just one so the next steps for for this draft is that we we are going to specify more clearly the relationship between the N domain and the cost map or on and particles map and we have interesting example of Hadoop\u0027s system - you make use of the property map this may introduce a new domain and we have not stated the system so the use case is that if the client needs the data set X as an input and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:29",
    "text": "eggs actually has several copies maybe four copies in data node n1 and n2 the clients who were decided which they\u0027d had noted to get the data based on the distance of each node and the distance is computed by the client self but however on the client because the network location property of each domain this is provided by the service but not the client feel so the unified public map is going to provide the network location property of each node and a possible request and the response format will be like this we are use the property mapped query a with entities in one info and the properties being network location and the property map will return to the client where\u0027s that there\u0027s no locates it may be locating data center Wang and rec 1 and node 1 oh it may be located yet at the data center - and the rack - and no the for don\u0027t I\u0027m sorry I have to we have to finish this because we I think we already have two presentations that will not make it today because we\u0027re running behind schedule sorry I just yeah this is the last one okay so and since we\u0027re running behind schedule I don\u0027t think we should have a discussion on or I would refer discussions to the mailing list and to the author\u0027s as my chair Don now I\u0027m I\u0027m I\u0027m not sure I\u0027m happy that you\u0027re introducing new use case it\u0027s a new stuff because we want to move this ahead that\u0027s all I can say okay okay so please try not to come up with new use cases every two two months because then we will never get it done okay okay okay but anyway I think they were also here we had some discussion and I think it\u0027s moving ahead so it\u0027s good it\u0027s good work and I just fear that it gets out and it will not get done by the time we want okay Thank You Don and so the next presentation is actually I\u0027m presenting on behalf of Sebastian and Martine on the cross domain server discovery and this can actually be very short presentation I think or I hope so and I would go to the mic and so again I\u0027m presenting this on on behalf of Sebastian and Marcin were the authors and this has been adopted as working with item at the last ITF and they have issued now already the zr1 version so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:31",
    "text": "just to remind everybody what what this is all about is basically to find a new server we are DNS records or sorry an agile server and basically I\u0027m reading here the intended semantics you can say if you are a nice PR IT department who controls something you can say okay if you want to optimize your traffic to or from this prefix square the outer server which you can find here right so and yeah it\u0027s a classic and used to be called third-party server discovery but for various reasons and change so basically and the whole goal is that you can find a server that is not necessarily the closest pirate one that is actually and the one that can give you better information from an other perspective and this has been around we\u0027ve discussed this many times so I go to the next slide the only recent changes are really small ones so the algorithm has been changed that it can also handle IP prefixes as a parameter and not only IP addresses is really small change and there have been some clarifications aguar regarding the usage of alto maps and map filtering services so as I was saying in the beginning of the this session and we the chairs think this is ready for working last call and because again it has been around we\u0027ve discussed it the working group has said many times that we want this kind of solution and also the authors have agreed that this is pretty mature and so we don\u0027t think there\u0027s much to do here and again I\u0027m asking the people in the room are there any comments otherwise from yeah Richard go ahead yeah so I did send out that my part where a review I think this morning Oh yesterday I forgot and I like it I like I think this is very useful my only I guess roughly common mostly the editor would be somehow if we can come out of the principle for example I believe is using somehow expand a the ring search something like that or gradually like how to search make it a principle more clear probably be helpful because mostly this editorial and I just I saw the discussion I haven\u0027t read all the emails but I think Sebastian actually replied and said that they\u0027re going to look into it right that\u0027s at least what my understanding so and it\u0027s a good comment obviously we don\u0027t want to push things if there\u0027s two comments or concerns and but I understood your comment is something that is also something that can be handled and rather quickly so yeah I think this book is really so beachy and I think this is ready for working class call so probably it\u0027s a prescient saying something now he joined the queue he wants to say something I\u0027m on the mic and somebody Sebastian if we want to say something typing in jabber and maybe I can read it or something I am I the only one in jabber I can check and hold on and can I present and read my jabber at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:31",
    "text": "the same time guys so where\u0027s Java ah okay so Sebastian is saying of course I would look into Richard calm Richards calm so I think that doesn\u0027t change anything wonder what I was saying I go back to the last slide hold on a second so I think the authors and the chairs think this is almost ready for work in Glasgow or pretty much so I think they\u0027re they will review Richards comments and issue a new version rather soon and then we can go to working class Colin I don\u0027t hear any other opinions in the room so I think this is pretty much it okay since we are running behind schedule I will just move on to the next presentation so I think we have just we have now discussed all the chartered items I hope so let me get back to the agenda so we have basically now have our we have 15 more minutes and we have three scheduled presentations that are not chartered items so I would say I give each of them five minutes to be fair so the first one is Sabine with cellular address extension and then we have J with flow-based cost query and then we have Q with resource orchestration and and I think the last ones are remote so we see how we can handle but Sabine please go ahead with cell your address extension and again everybody please stick to your five minutes to be fair right so right please go ahead so this is actually resuming a couple of discussions we had since a couple of months ago so next slide please so here I the draft is very short actually I wanted to start a mailing list discussion and I found it more convenient to just drop a draft so this is a list here of related out of work that involves some of our networks and this list is pretty much the same as the one in the cost context a draft so we need we would like to have cellular endpoints in four outer cost context for our performance metrics for extensible property map so when listening to Dan\u0027s presentation I was figuring whether we can have an address domain for sales and of course endpoint property service if I want to query some properties understand I want one I\u0027m connected to and given the auto based protocol in space specified with endpoint addresses endpoint having cellular "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:32",
    "text": "IP our RV for our ipv6 addresses but nothing precludes in the protocol to have something else than IP IP addresses so and we also had discuss it in the last IETF so next slide please so okay so this is again just a reminder to for the interest in general in the ITF that is growing on multiplicity of endpoint access type so next slide please so there was some previous out of work and design choice so there was the work from line and the work presented in IETF 91 I guess for also for wireless networks so typically cell is associated to a PID and you want would like to have cellular address on this PID so the proposal comes from the draft outer in wireless access networks and the idea is to use to mimic the format of this GI which stands for EU transfer global identifier so next slide so basically this is almost the same content as the draft so it\u0027s really a like two or three pages to read so so this would be the address format as specified for ECG I you so you have the mobile country code and then you have the mobile network code and then you have the EU transyl identifier so the discussion for future version will be about those leading zeros I\u0027m not so sure about how we do given the fact that there you have MCCS coded 0 20 MC cisco d 20 so i leave it to the to the specialist so and so next slide please yeah so this is an example and again so much to say about that and next slide please yeah so these cellular this the cell ID format for auto could have three formats either just about mobile country code or the mobile country and Nick Moore code or the total with a mask and so this is and with some rules saying that okay so some matching rules obliging that you have at least a match between the MCC and MNC so next slide please "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:33",
    "text": "how many must right so you have Sabine okay actually it\u0027s just summarizing so this is again an example so you can skip it and the next slide yes next step will be to look at other IETF proposal for the cell address format validate these formats or another one with respect to working with discussions introduced cell addresses in working group documents especially performance metrics and cell entity domain identifier for the unified property draft use also endpoint properties filter cost map and endpoint Kozma and also use this format when we will discuss the chartering items involving cellular networks and I would like to thank Wendy for initiating this watch okay thank you Sabine thank you also first thing in time any quick comments yeah Lyle Bert\u0027s the leading zeros is only for frame alignment over wire protocol so we can maintain an LR 0 parser so just ignore them okay okay thank you so Nexus jingxuan if I\u0027m pronouncing it correct and he\u0027s presenting via meat echo on FCS so let\u0027s see how this works I mean I can put up his slides but hello me Jack can I hear me yeah we can okay great hold on let me just you just send me new slides right so Lopez cost Prairie correct yeah okay okay okay yeah I can see it so I will quickly go through our update our flow based calculus in our lab meeting next week and here is our overview since ITF 98 we have updated to variants of this document introduce a bigger architecture to claim why we need the auto extension such elefseus and we make some reason to target more extensible sensible design and the consistent semantics next please and at this pitch a we will cave and our our architecture about our vision for Otto this is the general popular architecture of current as the in solution the next I can say the slide "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:40",
    "text": "now it is a page 3 now yes I\u0027m presenting page 3 now yes ok want to go to thank you ok that\u0027s fun so the crop component is a sting controller which expose southbound in her business plan universe and east-west pant interface and our final target is to make out who provide the unified network view or non-spam and east west bound interfaces and next please so we run slide forward okay thank you so to formulate our objective precisely but you can post each autocue racer is at a function whose input it a network information curious based and the output is some specific network view and here is some examples and next please and from this inside we consider the general requirement at two items the more flexible input and more practical output a many including Auto extensions like test vector unified property mat cost and the Condor are targeting the most flexible output but FCS is focusing on more flexible input specifically FCS has two requirements the first way is to provide more flexible shape of the pure space and the second way is to provide more pricey encoding of the cure entry next please so from this requirement we have three major design decisions what\u0027s accurate schema with the entry encoding and how to provide a validation and the following is a connotation of our documentation so next please and if it goes and details about the curie schema we make some small change on the Christ based schema since I have 98 currently the wire of the endpoint flow spelled is our REO and one filter instead of the array of just destination pairs which can reduce some overhead and the next please I think it\u0027s a pity 8.now to turbit mark pricey entry "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:45",
    "text": "including we have created some new auto tries tab rigid 3 for example the eth HTTP ftp tcp and UDP are the new accepted address types but hidden but it contacts some further issues for example if an wanna filter controls ftp tapped source address and HTTP tablet destination christ this curie should be invalid because ftp complete with HTTP so next place I\u0027m sorry to interrupt you can um wrap up a bit because we like it ok so there is a remaining issue if we consider this example then this curio have two unwanted felt her first client valid but the second why didn\u0027t violate legacy auto / co\u0027 will it turn our message directly so the auto clan has to resend filter one and fell to but in our question is it is possible to return every passed the valid part with error message for the invalid part we have a simple solution at option one but we are considering whether can provide an automatic conflict avoidance mechanism for example in this case UDP is a specific type of activity for our ipv6 so the auto server can reduce the certain point address to an aquifer Christ and returns cost between it and the ATP or crest okay so the last page is the next type we also analyzed the design decisions and we want to make the new skete services clearer so an actual thing already I have done thank you okay thank you very much and I I think we move on to the next presentation just to be fair so if there are any comments or discussions please people put them on the mailing list so we can discuss Thanks thank you very much for joining remotely Jensen thank you okay so next up is Wow if I\u0027m pronouncing it correctly not yeah okay thank you I\u0027m just trying to find your presentation and that is the resource orchestration right yes yes and you sent me some a new one yes okay I got it go ahead okay yeah thanks this is our producer "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:46",
    "text": "remotely for the auto use case resource authorization for Matty to maintain analytics this is a joint and public project between different University and CERN next please and yeah this is a quick takeaway from last ITF meetings and we propose that not only Otto can be used to provide lateral New York emissions so that to speed up dataset transfers it can also provide information on different type resources too so that we can improve help improve the performance of data and any applications and based on this proposed already done the a multi resource or treater for the compact muon solenoid at kitchens are called EXO and next piece so this is a quick update the latest update for the draft and the week\u0027s first we expand application scenarios from the resource alteration for science application to a more generic unified resource Austrians for geo dispersion modeling data and linking data analytics and we\u0027ll name the framework to be called unicorn we describe the key component of unicorn it consists of a set of tools to manage the dynamics of the resource demand and supply and of course it will maintain it has has a Orchestrator to match the demand with with the resource supply and we restructure the document by adding some by updating the abstract and destruction sections and we add some several examples and describe the people the workflow of the whole framework the work group to review we can jump to the slide 7 I\u0027m trying 7 ok yes so yeah 30 so this is why we want to use our tool in our framework this is mainly because the existing resource management system such as H Condor mesos and so on they only provide course growing the informations on resources and may lead to Union efficient resource allocation decisions but on the on the country auto provide on-demand foundering information on different have resources to support the optimal resource appreciation for data analytics jobs and we can jump to a slide number 10 so yeah you know not mean we already gave a quick example about how Auto can provide certain information so here is the architecture of the unicorn so to manage the resource diamond dynamic we provide a work workflow converter and the amount esta meter to automate to automatically find the optimal configurations for different data analytic jobs and under resource supply that are on the resource supply side we use Auto client to I will use auto plant to cure a to issue a series of issue a series of surgeries to the auto servers to get there with the resource informations corresponding to certain to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:48",
    "text": "correspond to certain data analytical jobs and we use a resource will each structure to assemble and the comprise is such information into an abstract wheel of resources we can go to the next slide so so yeah so you know pitching to the base to the base services de proposing RFC 70 to 85 we also a unicorn also benefit substantially from several auto its extension included including the unified RP the past record cost calendar are all this year has been adopted and also it the resource will extractors I used red I wasn\u0027t proposing the auto route instead attraction top and also we include the flow cost services to probably show more fun going the information about different type of flows go to slide 14 14 yeah and I think then we have alright yeah absolutely so so but so yeah just just quick summary so unicorn basically provides a template architecture for data center resource orientations and this is a major use case for auto again the working group chatter and like I just said in addition to the base auto protocol it applies several auto extensions and to click resource information from different sites and this is a informational job and it provides key insight and experience in the deployment of different type of auto services and you know very large and public that an elective project so the next step for us is to continue to document on the design and the experience of unicorn and also we are we are still on the right track with the previous prepared with the mouse joint for pre production deployment on by I\u0027d have one hundred and hopefully two for production front by I tracked one 100 or three that\u0027s it okay thank you very much yeah over time so I\u0027m also here if people have comments please do them on the mailing list but thank you for this update and I\u0027m happy that we managed actually all the scheduled presentations and I think we made good progress also with the chartered items so um yeah with that I close and again most likely we\u0027re gonna have next virtual interim meeting mmm but we have to see and we will post it on the mailing list so thanks everybody and yeah let\u0027s keep moving the drafts long okay bye-bye thank you thank you you "
  }
]