[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:22",
    "text": "wonder and gaze on the note well If you haven't ever read it, take time. It's a fascinating document Enjoy. How's my voice? Too high, too low, just right mama bear papa bear baby bear okay so please look at all the down documents there. If you want to know the details, please take read. I left it up there for five minutes. If you want to snap it, it's on the website, but do take a look at it Okay, what are we doing today? Well, I'm trying to get through a report on the interim in case you missed it into flow spec. What? is our purpose? Come to some base flow spec that adds user ordering That's what the working group wanted The flow spec V2 that we had was wonderful, correct, but too much for an implementer to do all at once and fulfill our requirements of two implementations. Once we do mine, we'll go through some other ones. Non I hope, will appear sometime He has the first one for FlowSpec hopefully usual will be there remotely. I haven't seen her in the chat window G, if you see her, make sure to say hi And Linda's going to go through the a redirect example for 5G. Okay, then we're going to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "go through Anchor. Anchors here He's going to do through Determiner route redistribution redistribution we're going to have a SD-WAN presentation and B4 and B6 and I think that Guyin is remote this week. So, and Chongfen chung-fen didn't get his visa so that's our agenda. Any bashing, bashing, of need, bashing of IDR, more bansh, okay let's get the next one up Well, that's interesting Yeah, no problem. Did they reset it? No problem. Yeah, okay I've got to turn off my volume again. Okay no problem. Share a slice I can have that. Yeah, we should have that Okay, something happens it's all yours. Okay, close back This is the short, I hope I can do this quickly review, but there's a lot of slides. So, just in case you miss it what we were doing last time I announced we would go through a goals of trying to break this huge spec into four parts. First, we want a minimal subject The purpose is the smallest possible delta to get to user ordering That's V1 plus user ordering nothing else. Okay? Then we were going to add the intellectual property. It's takes to do other things, dependency between filters. Still got a lot of work to do we're not going to move that one ahead until we do the discussions for that the next one is new actions. We currently have extended"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "community actions and we're going to continue in the to have extended community actions We're also going to have wide communities I'm so glad to see you not, no, I just and we're going to look at action change. But again, chunks of work we're going to do that in the future what we're trying to do how is the basic, and then we'll go for the non-IP filters, such as L2 or MPLS or FLC or maybe even something else. We could use it for up-and-coming things that use a firewall. Remember, close back is a firewall specification. Okay, so what are the drafts to? What did I put out these drafts? Will the flowspec, hairs, V-Svick, IP Basic is your minimal subset? It's got all the boilerplate from the original flow-spec V-2. You can say, I don't like the boilerplate, but that's where it came from It's the base draft. What does Hairs FlowSpec V2 more filters? It's basically the dependency filter work that we're going to do what we decide to do a about filters, it's got a proposal, it's a straw man, we can beat it up and a template. All the rest about the draft that are in there, they're going to go into individual drafts The same is true of the hairs, flow spec V2 more IP actions. It has the action change Do you set DSC? flag and then copy and then read? set DSCP flag and then copy and then redirect? What happens if it breaks down and you don't see? the DC mark DSCP and a template now? that one's not updated with the template at this point but we've got a lot to learn"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "So what happens if you had a B1 specification? several of you had it the reason we're taking this group approach is I've got 25 graphs that people wanted to specify close spec in V1 or V2. And I'm trying to give the working group as the chair handling this a place to go an architecture templates and then have at it same deploy requirements so what happens if you have a v1 well if you've deployed it, give me both a V1 and a V2 spec. Might be the same as just adding, we're gonna do the same thing might have to add more if you have a question, come see me. I'll give you hints and templates If you don't deploy, start with the B2 because the working group decided no more V1. We have a lot of direction give you hints and templates. If you don't deploy, start with the V2, because the working group decided no more V1. We have a lot of drafts in the in-between that deal with redirect. I'm going to try to go through those in a moment B2 use the templates if you're specifying more filters or actions Okay, so what's new? What's sort of interesting? Well, something for us to think about is we have prefixes in there and we have UDP and we have things that go on a simple firewall but maybe we want to tag it with other things We tagged it in some actions with interfaces Some people have requested colors some people have requested times, ASS, is not a given, but this is thought work that is in there for you to start, well, is this going to fit my flow? spec? That's one place we came back with the feedback. That's a new piece Now, Jeff gave me a challenge and Jeff this is for you to see I can do this. He said in this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "specification we're going by time L3 from V1, and then a new one that's L3 with all the new extended features like TTL and we're going to number them. Jeff said Chisu, can they be numbered from? a global thing? So by default, it might just work for the first round. So I took that as a challenge. Never give me a challenge? You could number them either individually, like the time component numbers were numbered in B2 or you could number them with a second number like 131. So I've given you an example. Again, this is just work for discussing. Our base will only be our flow spec V1, nothing more. And that's what's on under working group adoption call. Okay any questions so far? if you all got all of that we can all go home quick but I suspect maybe I'd try to do the little bit more. How does it look when it's ordered? You have rules with match conditions They have, each rule has a rule type be it L3V1 like our good flow spec V1, or extended with maybe TTL, maybe the SRO SRV6 header in the IPC package I'll try that in the SRV6 packet I'll try that in the SRV6 header routing header in the V6 packet or the NR and R in the SRV6 header, routing header in the V6 packet or the NRPID in the V6 packet or T routing header in the V6 packet or the NRP ID in the V6 packet or TTL or something else there's a payload filter proposed those are new okay so you have a rule"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "A rule has an order and this identity is the old thing the identifier was first the logging identifier, but that's what we thought was an error We thought it really should be a filter dependency because you need to do it all the order. Right now in the basic it's just zero. It's a- placeholder. Okay, and that's our decision for the first time is, can we buy off on eight ten eight octets in case we need filter ordering? I want to do one to skip a few to five That's feedback we need. Then there's a type. These are the types Notice the basic filter rules, but then we'll starting to work on the extended IP filter rules Others, we could put Savant filters in there, okay? When you start breaking it down by type, it becomes, within an LNI several streams. We think that's the best way to do the additions right now Do give us feedback We're adopting the IP Basic as an adoption, even though the work is all in already been approved for the working group but i won't to go through and ask the question again If some of these don't work out, we can change it still till we get to implementation But the implementers need some place Now, hi Sue Jeff is in the queue. Do you want to? take your comment now, Jeff? yeah i think it's uh relevant point. So back on slide eight, if you don't mind You're really loud. Sorry I guess a little quieter. So back on slide eight. You're still loud Back on slide eight"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "There we go. It's 10 slide eight eight 8 a slide 8, 8. Go ahead, Jeff. Not 18 eight ahead jeff not 18 8 8 you would sometimes On page 8. Page 8. Go back Thank you are your slide number internet consistent. And the slide number with the different numberings of the components, there are two things that we're looking for there you know the first thing we're looking for is you know what are the components and how do they relate to each other? Because default flow spec rules are, you know, we cascade and sort them based on component I read right out, this slide right here here So the challenge you have doing the default sword order is what happens if things need to order themselves in a way that's natural for like DDoS, which is what FOSPEC V1 was about. So picking easy what happens if things need to order themselves in a way that's natural for like DDoS, which is what FOSPEC V1 was about. So picking an easy example of like TTL, which you have numbered as 14 if that was the number that we wanted to put stuff in, it means that stuff that is sorted on TTL is going to happen very late in this work process And certainly, user order can be used to bias that Part of the exercise here is to say, well, what happens if we have a new thing and we want to insert it, for example? And if we go for an actual 1, 2, 3, 4 style number, four style numbering, you know, we're not going to have any room to do that sort of thing If we leave spaces, 10, 20, 30 40 is an example. We have the ability to delete least add stuff somewhat at the end or somewhere in the middle. So that's part of the reason we're looking at this is to see what the default sort order could be If we were to sort of naturally put these things together, you like l2 probably sorts before l3 MPLS probably sorts somewhere between L2 and L3"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "Tunnel, no, does that sort in the middle? We'll figure that out. But if we don't leave any spaces, this means that as we add features later on, you know, there's no place for it to go naturally without explicit user ordering Okay, anything more, Jeff? That's it. Okay So the important thing is this is our NRI top level? It breaks down then if you have V1 to order this zero for future filter dependence chain and then the type and then after that it's being Yes Dr. Dolly, one question, especially thinking from we have a dog document in PC working group which is about and flow spec. And you, you, copied the component yes so a document in PC working group, which is about L2 flow spec. You copied the components. Yes. They are changing. So my main question was, how does the INA registry would look like especially if you go one slide back uh every one of them are getting uh where we had all the list of numbers, which over that slide was. Yes, this one Everyone is a separate registry here Like is that how what's the registry design that we are thinking? That's a point for discussion first of all second if they were, they all would have to be in different registries. The question is where we start the default numbering as a global numbering and see how it goes Okay? I think that's going to work out for us as well, so yeah, but I'll continue to go, thanks. Okay Ordering Flozpect V2 and V1 are ships in the night. Rule zero is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "permit all, and from there, this is DDoS, you restricted it further. The way to make it work with FlowSpec V1 by default is to put your flow spec B1 at the end at a single ordering But the document also says, you could put a configuration knob and put it in there if you're an intelligent user You know it's the guaranteed working is at the end, but if you want to put it in the middle because there's something special about your body or your application okay Now, the ordering within the user, ordering is done by component number, which is why those components are important by default if you had a global component order, it would all just work together except when you accept it If you have the same, you order, it would all just work together, except when you accept it. If you have the same user number and order number, which is what we have today in V1, it defines it by component The component number is 1 through 30 If it's the same component number, IP destination and IP destination, there are rules in V1 for ordering it within the component We're not changing that, okay? We're not changing V1's components or ordering you just have the option of doing a user order before you do your component use one component number one for all of it for V1 and set your configuration that V1 stuff will do the same it'll work the same as v1 so okay what do we think we can do for extent? So that's the basic one. That's what we're working. That's what's underworking group adoption call to say, did we?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "get it right? The buy-off is the format and the dependency chain. Beyond that, we're trying to work toward the future with people who are proposing new filters. So the new filters in order not to impact B1, are in a new NRI type type 2 and their extended filters and their order. Now, there is a version on top so we can keep ordering it. Maybe you get TTL and SID header and NRP and payload in the first strength of the specification. Well, the version could help you say that's what I have whether it should be user-based or whether it should be standards-based, there's a lot of discussion there. This is future work. People who are in the new filter business need to contribute. Okay, L is one of those components I already went through We've gone through that with Jeff and these are various delays pieces pieces Prefix list orders. There are a couple ways you could do it You could have rule number one and several components where they're all at the youth user order and the unique V1 components. No problem, you can do that now. You could have it too We could have something that looks more directly like a prefix component list where you had it more complex Not really in there, but possible Okay, but gone through that, thanks to Jeff's help. Now, here's the filter to dependencies. Again, I'm introducing the things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "that are coming in the future and why we have those eight octets. Let's say you have today, you have a filter match. Okay, you've got a destination It matches, it goes to the second one and then the action at the end says stop it does some action drop it or mark smith, okay? Do you want and then it would go on with four. But you might want to say there's a dependency from one to four. If I don't match one, let's skip ahead, you know, one, two, skip a few, go to four and have a dependency Okay, that's possible Then you'd skip to four and you might go then to six. That might provide some better processes for some of the firewalls. I don't know I'd like feedback. This is an idea that had been proposed. Jeff and I have looked at it, I've seen it. How does this work? Okay, same thing. Rule 1 one, match the location, match the destination port, match the source part, drop. Oh, I'm not going to match the location in the the SRV6 ID, go and see if I'm match the address. I don't do that go on to something else so it's a shortcut form doesn't really change how the components work, just talks about how you're dependencies. And there have been many suggested dependencies in small groups and need feedback this is not something that's going to be done tomorrow but those who are looking for extended filters need to work with this Here is one from Nats For example, of a modifying packet. Do you modify the packet? as soon as the match occurs or not this is filters and matches. That"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "has to be done once we go beyond Everything if you've got a V1 implementation right now in the v1 form, we're going to trust it you've got one working, you can get the next working there's a lot of there's a lot of industry to find the fact and we're not going to mess with them and we're not gonna really specify because we're gonna have somebody broken. If you want to do that, let the children know Okay, here's an example with the SRV6. I want to locator of SID1, a function of index and an argument of 128.2 I also then want to match after I match on that, to match NRPID 10 in the hop-by-hop header and then I want to match a source port, and the answer is dropped And you stop, and if you didn't do that you might go on to the next match Now, you can see for the folks who've been working on Savnet how this might be good for a tactical short amount of savnet prefixes That's a thought. We're still in discussion Here's color. How many people know we've got a lot of color out there in the in our lady inventions and they go to VRN Okay, so you match the VRF and then you go to the address and then you check the source part And again, if you didn't come to a match, or something failed, you can skip ahead Deep packet inspection that's coming out of our payload people. We'll match a destination port, and then last the first payload and second payload. You will notice that us and co-authors presentation has a flexible"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "format. Is that what you want? There's a lot of, please give feedback or make a choice Those who are proposing, it's up to you to help push the basic over the line and then get your draft implemented into implementations. Other data let's say I want to have an interface group in ASC 120 and then match the prefix Okay, so that was filter change yes AC A.C. This is just a quick question. I heard you say, Verf So that was filter change. Yes, A.C. acee lindem Levin, this is just a quick question. I heard you say, BIRF, so you're going to mix the rules for multiple verbs are all in one set of flow spec rules under the flow spec They're for multiple verse and multiple layers, if we can get all of them sorted out. Yes, we're allowing for that innovation. I have a lot of questions beyond the basics. I mean, there's a lot to do here, but there's a lot of drafts that keep coming up, so okay we've given you a framework. You can help us decide the solution for yours you'll have to work on the common if you've got a draft in extended filters or adding new action but after that it's you know rinse suds repeat on your stuff. Okay what about drafts on actions? What do they really do? Okay, here's a set of drafts and some of them are old some of them are old and used, like draft IETFI IDR flow spec redirect IP last when we had is 215, but it's referenced in our in a draft we sent up to the RFC and it needs to get finalized. It's a V draft that's working fine but we'll need a V2 forward. What does it do? It redirects to address and copy What does the flows back path direct, and it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "V6 partner do draft IDF, zero, IDR zero IDR SRV6 I think for the path redirect, it puts it to a global ID. It also allows copy what about TS flow spec it looks for this I redirect it puts it to a global ID it also allows copy what about TS flow spec it looks for an SID tunnel to put it to and again then you start marking it with and by the way, this is, this is error right here, that's not NRP, this is in capping, flow spec and, excuse me the NRP that's wrong is right here there's this is only sending it to an IPSEC tunnel Katz ID folks are specifying flow spec and they're saying somehow I'm going to put a cat's ID someplace in the packet. I said, that's cool you tell me where it's gonna go and then that draft will go someplace to sitting Shen says we want to compress stuff And Peng says we want to put in an APN ID and Stitchner and inherit. It's all really good interesting work but we've got to get through what happens when one of these things fail What happens when you fail to traffic? limit something? You've got the and you traffic limiter just doesn't work. Somehow it gives me back an error or your DSC marking doesn't work. Or one of these redirects doesn't work. What do you do? Okay. Well, uh that's really important because that's a failure mode. In Yang, when Jeff and I were working on IHS and Yang, it's all enough nothing or partial or rollback Right now I sort of suggested the first place to do is all or nothing but some of you may want best effort"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "okay action change that's what that's about. If you have a default, maybe your default is stop if you have a problem but for one you want to keep going for best effort Okay, um those are lots of details. How is it going to be? encoded? Well, we currently put it in several generic extended communities will allow more. We're just going to define how they interact Okay, it's working. Don't break it But I will warn you when you might break it yourself, okay? Here is the genitive transitive. And here's your global, okay? Again, the only thing you probably need to decide in there for action chains is what happens if it failed what's your default they're in is your stop continue condition on failure. That's from Yang okay what about putting it in the community path attribute? By the way, we miscalled this the wide community attribute It's really a path community attribute and one of the options is a large community so these are that's the header. We could put in action dependency there thoughts I Ideas that were in the basic that people thought were good and were cycling back after three to four years Now, who's used them? RPD is used to the basic that people thought were good and were cycling back after three to four years. Now, who's used them? RPD has used them for match and set and that got through Working Group last call before the project with wide community brought it back to the wide community's definition in its RC proposal form found some failures so they both came back but it's got match and set the debt net"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "folks are giving us deterministic action or map to TN flows the S and set. The debt net folks are giving us deterministic actions or map to TN flows. The SFC folks use an action that's an extended community that after you find a certain filter, you're going to pipe it to an SFC channel. Is channeled the right? way to say that FSC folks I think of a certain filter, you're going to pipe it to an SFC channel. Is channel the right way to say that, FSC folks? I think of it another channel, but well okay. Okay, what about non-li? What have they been done? they filter on MP and EFLS and EF bits and pop and push And I think the rest I'll let you read but it's L2 and they mark an L2 the VLAN and the TIP Okay, so we have a lot of things to decide. Your real question in all of this is whether you think the basics enough for the people who want to start. I think I did pretty good the rest of it's just a whole lot of TBDs Yeah, so Tony P. Juniper All good implementation to support? the whole seven yards of that? And how will you indicate who supports what? I'm not hearing it. Close to the point. Sorry. Yeah it has been a long week So do you expect all implementations? to support these whole seven yards? No, absolutely not. So how do we indicate who supports what? Because pushing the stuff, you know? Okay, if you're doing V1 with order, that's your minimum subset as it's stayed in the document. Any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "Anything else? when I got to the extended filters I said, okay, we can put a version in there and say which one i'm i'm supporting. Maybe you're in a network and you support five and you put the version number there in and you agree on it in a set of places. And if you don't see that version number you say I can't do any anything with it I don't support all of these no no my question is slightly different. I hear you, which is good But this is a lot of matching and some of that can go pretty deep into the pack And some implementations will be basically say, I'm not supporting any L2 filtering So how do I figure it out on a pier, you know, when I'm pushing it? stub onto them because partially programmed silicon is worse than no programmed silicon possibly Plus one on all of that. This is a working process and all I'm doing is laying out how we're gonna go forward yeah what you said for a answer okay and and so for those people who want the extended filters you got to help push the ball up the hill to get the rest done I, we gave a complete spec earlier and then it didn't get in place to get the rest done. We gave a complete spec earlier, and then it didn't get implemented. So now I want, if you're going to implement it, feature and you it's in one of these categories help push that up and then propose the feature because we're two implementations let's go with I can't see the thing Jeff, did you have something in the I go to Jeff Tenzer and then we'll cycle Yes, so hopefully, and that equate is loud right now. Jeff, you're too loud Back, just going to move away I'm going to go to the other side of the room. So to Tony that we've had about?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "these things? How do you actually figure out what device in your network are capable of supporting? individual features and when some portion of your network doesn't support it, how do you make that aware noted to the controllers that are creating these flow spec routes to get the job done? So it's a very valid point We need to spend time on it That's not on the current drafts right now, but it has been discussed. Yes And there, if Jeff, if I've hearing you right, we have and and um, have some need for decide about capabilities for the basic set you implement it all. It's V1 plus all ordering. After that, we've got to figure out where we go from there if you think the V1 plus ordering needs some capabilities, now's the time to chime in Jeff, your turn. My comment goes kind of what they see us. As long as we keep feeling on staff that's unambiguous in data, plane, we are okay VRF has no representation in data plan whatsoever So if you try to put in the filter something that need to be derived and might be different from devices, to device, it's a recipe for disaster Right. I, I, I we have to figure out, are we going to use a capability to figure out what goes from one to the other other than the basic if you sign up for the basic you sign up for all of the v1 plus ordering. Keep it to data plane. Pardon? keep it to data plane something that could be matched upon, not something that could be derived by I'm missing the point. Let me pick it up with you later You can match an MPLS label and IP address and MACAD address, on any layer for semantics of a packet. Keep it to something that is in the packet could be looked up and match upon"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "That's unambiguous. Something that's logically configured on a device is ambiguous across devices It's a recipe for disaster. Okay i think i'm missing something but i'll pick it up i it's my problem, not yours, I'm sure. Go ahead Philip so um the comment just made just before about how to define what is capable what a given system would support, to be concur with what Jeff had was saying. Actually, we only have the polling in flows big V1. You may actually not have all systems supporting all the match criteria, even in Flos Bay V1 So it's a different problem, how you advertise what you're capable of it or not. So I think it's a separate discussion On the slide that you had before, I was interested by those complex go-ch from entry 1 to end I was intrigued by those complex go-to from entry one to entry two to maybe entry five and six because those are concepts that don't exist in most hardware implementation so most systems actually perform a TCAM lookup which is not going to allow you to do what is in this diagram Like this, so it's, yeah It is a future and not in many common hardware pieces. Yeah. It may be in other places but the descriptions in some of the documents lead me toward this. If this is a forbidden yacht, then we need to assess that as a group. That's why it's out in this clear place. I don't have anything invested here other than getting us at least on a direction Yeah, I was thinking if the main focus is switched out of this is this is the main focus right now is deciding if V1 or on a direction. Yeah, I was thinking if the main focus is switched harder, this is, this is... The main focus right now is deciding if V1 order plus the order by"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "plus zeros in the dependent area plus the B1 stuff is a good starting place if we say everything is in implemented okay that's all we're doing After that, I foresee several years of having discussions with people who want individual features, where the features will drive this. Tony, did I miss something else? Yeah, sorry, so I'm not productive, I'm bitching but it's Friday. I'm allowed. So what we already seen, and Jeff is probably also aware of that, I think we had discussions, is that if you push enough of that stuff some of the hardware tables overrun And we had this interesting problem that people would do this different things then. And I think it would be good to define a predictable behavior like perch, don't program anything, something and I know it's difficult in BGP architecture, some no notification saying I couldn't program this stuff because currently it's a you know we're flying in the blind, right? And this is big I mean, the F1 started already to run away size wise. This will be big. So it will overrun hardware yes i mean if you're going to do this, you might have to go to the bigger update packet in many ways Yeah, I'm not even going there And then we can somehow cheat our way with, you know, interesting NLRs and I don't know whatever uh r i'm concerned purely about that we got inconsistent hardware state. Again, I didn't know. I this is a big elephant I can't do it theoretically I've got to do it one, one that this is a big elephant. I can't do it theoretically. I've got to do it one piece that someone's willing to say, I need this to go to market, and then we'll solve that and we're grouping the people into two groups those who want to make action new action"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "those who want to make new filters and we're going to work worlds I'm with you but I architecturally, I think it needs a concept okay, how you deal with the overflow consistently and some kind of a notification, some kind of way to figure out that things did not go well okay? Yeah, that's what I mean. How it's sold in detail, like I said I'm just having, you know, free association session. Hey, it's Friday Again, we need to deal with it in real lives scenarios. And then I I've got to cut my own line as the chair so um hey Philip and then we'll just stop and thank you all for dealing with this sort of, okay, where do we go next? presentation? ketan talaulikar, Cisco. Some of, I think the previous comment was some of these things are there in flow spec 1 as well. But here we are adding several capabilities several options and all of that Signaling this via capabilities I think can become real complicated depending on how we do it using existing BGP capabilities will probably need something very different to cover this. So BGP is a unit unidirectional protocol and I'm really thinking now whether for something as complex as this, we will need to invent us Safi in the other direction I'm just worried I agree this is going to get to this. Jeff gave a proposal when we first started this for capabilities I'm introducing a summary of what you all have and I'm glad you come to the conclusion We need some sort of capabilities once we go beyond basic. Because the working groups said no first, so good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "I think so to me we go beyond basic. Because the working group said no first. So, good. Philip Bergen. Yeah, so to me, starting with Flospeg VE and much criteria, plus ordering is great. And to get back on the comment. I mean a private year de Jong-again. Yeah, so to me, starting with flow spec view and much criteria, plus ordering is great. And to get back on the comment. I made up, I have a year. Oh, sorry back on the comment Oh sorry and and to go back on the comment on and and to get back on the comment on this doesn't, like having too many entries, having too many too many of those in a given system, this does change anything that FlowSpec V1 wasn't doing already Like, this is not changing any scale issue, like, so the the problem existed before the that Flospeg V1 wasn't doing already. This is not changing any scale issue. So the problem existed before. It is something else problem it is something else for the basic it is just changing one thing Okay, um, we got two other, three other presentations, for examples We're going to try to go through those quick Just a minute Okay. Hello? everyone. I'm Nang-Gong from Pauwetano-J I will introduce the draft of BGP Flowstack for social address validation. Of course, I need to note that it's not an introduction of updates of this chapter. I will show a use case of social registration based on BGP flows back and some discussion points in this slide. And of course, these points have now been updated to the draft. So I will update the drafter, maybe according to our discussion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "results after the meeting Here is the use case of BGP flow spec for also address validation And here is an example which use case of BGP flow spec for also address validation. And here is an example. We can generate our rules on the controller or security center and some sound rules can be distributed to the Lotus within the AIS So why we use BPA? Florespeg to distribute the south rules? because in some cases the rotors cannot get the complete set of sub rules. So we can distribute some complementary sow rules to the rotors so as to enhance the accuracy of validation And one of the advantages of using BGPPro spec is that we can reuse the existing flow spec traffic or handling actions. You know, there are many kinds of actions in flow spec, so we can reuse them and apply them in the SOSURG validation And here are some discussion points okay them in the SOSO RET validation. And here are some discussion points. The first one is how to make good scalability is a scale problem in the last presentation who also mentioned the group ideas and prefix list I think there are similar things Here, we can group those prefixes with different granularities. For example, we can use the orange AS number to group this source prefixes. We do not need to distribute all the prefixes in flow spec. And second, we can also group interfaces with different granularity Actually, it's not new to group thermally in BP flow spec. There are some graphs"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "For example, we can use orange AI to represent a set of those prefixes. We can also use interface set to represent a set of interfaces And the second discussion point is, why do we put interface set? in extended community? or NLRI? In the kind of work or working group, draft in interface that is put in the extended community there are some pros and the cons and the the interface that is put in the extended community. There are some pros and cons. And here, what I want to point out is that interface site may can also be put in the NRI. The pro is in terms of meaning interface site is more like a filter because it can determine which traffic do we take action? on and in the open flow is the import is also considered as a metric field. So there are similar things but the con-cons are that interface set may have very local meaning, so there may be some problems in inter-domain flows back cases so another question may be can interface set has non-local meaning So we have the third of discussion point maybe we can use a flag to indicate whether the group identifier has a local meaning or a non-local meaning. An example of non-local meaning is that we can carry a AIS number in this identifier field and the field will represent also in the interfaces connected to this neighboring AI So when the BGP messages with a non-local meaning of group identifier is proper"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "appropriate to other AISs, the other AI, will also recognize the meaning of growth ID. And how do we? verify the rules with only thought and interface? so maybe we can only accept the flows back rules with source prefixes or originated from the same way as the flow spec route, which is similar to another draft named the BGP subnet. We have a use case here a customer can proactively advertise sour rules to its provider and the provider can give some verifications to the customer's services And the final discussion point is whether we can have a flag to indicate a that the flow spec route is specific for sour and it can be installed in a sour table You know, in most cases, DGP flow spec are installed in ASAL table or fire table. They are not dedicated for source prefix filtering. So if we install too many sources address validation rules in such table, there will be a waste of results in our hardware. And so if we want to use BGP flow spec, to support the SAUO rule, distribution, maybe we can use such a flag to indicate wire to install our rules it can be implicitly or explicitly About the other, Saur RRow rules are usually used to validate the package after the GDP flow spec rules For example, if we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "enable your RFF on our rotors, the packet will be tracked. First, on the ACL table, and then URPF and then maybe FAB So about the order we can put some rules behind other BP full spec rules Okay next we'll update the draft according to our discussions and thanks to the comments from the draft and other participants Welcome Okay, thanks. Thank you Any direct comments here online? Thank you Non, it may be that it's Friday. Okay Linda, I'm going to ask you if I can do your presentation with that okay that may speed us up I'm trying to catch us up. Kuzha uh, Yusha, excuse me, let me get her slides up. This one you may be interested in because it is a flexible packet content filter. Welcome What time is it there? It's this morning now. This morning. Okay You shouldn't you should I will control this slides for you. Go ahead. Okay, thank you So I will start And today I will introduce the packet content filter for the BGP flows back. Next slide, please Okay, so the first is the problem statement with the scale of the DDoSat attacks increase annually, Cario network cannot defend well in face of some volumetric deductor attacks So, and then we found that there are some attacks have fixed content characteristics As shown in the picture, it's an ACK flag"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "carpet booby attack captured on the character network. This attack can reach more than 300 gpps affecting over 200 IP addresses, and causing the service disruptions. In this situation, existing flowsback filter can match the traffic. Operators are also difficult to defend rapidly and effective using cleaning devices or firewalls Therefore, it's necessary to propose a new type of filter to implement the defense against this attack using BGP flows back Next, please. Okay is the packet content filter, and we also can call it payload filter. It has six fields in the value encoding Next, please We also gave a TLV encoding format for the Los Bagway 2 and defined all the run of the rules we have introduced a format for the those backway tool and defined all the run of the rules we have introduced it in the interim meeting. So if I anyone interested, please find the draft Okay, next after discussing with vendors we found the content matching requires high device performance especially when the offset is large so it's generally used with the firewall to verify the effectiveness and the order of the rules, we build a test bed The network topology is a show in the slides, business traffic, and attack traffic were repeated based on real web access scenarios. It's based on the open show in the slides. Business traffic and attack traffic were repeated based on real web access scenarios. It's based on the OpenBGPD and IFR routine with deep developed and deployed some new functions such as new filter definition, flows by on the OpenBGPD and IFR routine. We developed and deployed some new functions, such as new filter definition, flows back announcement, send, receive, analyze and traffic handling"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "People can find the related code from the GitHub project. Next please Here are the test results with first test with several common network layer attacks, including UDP fault results. The first test with several common network layer attacks, including UDP, SMP flood, and ACK flood, with different content characteristics The blue line in the figure represents the traffic received by the web server and the red line represents the traffic dropped by the router. It can be seen that with the packet content filter turned on, the attack is successful filtered Next please Then they test the filter on a HTTP flood with fingerprint It's an application layer attack and traffic contains some TCP and HTTP package The filter can only match on HTTP get a request and TCP retransmission packets. The periods of pigs in the redline are the dropped TCP replacement packets, the pigs in the blue line and the past TCP packets Our filter can defend 25 to 55% as a traffic and the remaining traffic need to be defended with a cleaning device or farewells. Next, please We also conducted a set of tests to verify the order of the rules. The traffic is matched by two rules with different actions And in some conflict situation, the order of the rules affects the final traffic handling results And I will not explain it in detail because the time is referred to the slide Next, please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "And it's the second situation Next place It's a third situation, next place place Okay, overall, we did some development and data testing work this time who proved effective effectiveness of the filter. We hope to get more feedback whether by the meeting or the analytics Thank you Thank you. Any questions on your presentation? and the data? Okay, I'm gonna, to try to help us hurry up. I'm going to try to tell you what I'd like you to pay attention to in the final one of the other ones I asked each one of these to join us based on something that was in the slides. In this one there is a filtering based on a UDP port. That's pretty normal. But when you and here is the very, UDP forms that should look like we see in FlowSpec V1. But what happening here is a redirect to an IPSEC tunnel. There were other previous proposals for redirect to an SR routing SID, which is effectively a tunnel So you see that's one of the redirects features that we have here and there are copies. And so there were three examples of some of the work I was show That concludes our flow spec education moment again the purpose behind this was to select a minimal subset of the flow spec V1 plus ordering as a beginning of a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "adoption to go forward. That's where everyone implemented The rest we're going to have to work on together to get agreement Please join those groups With that, we're going to go on to the next presentation And encourage yours Okay, we are back from from features to a bug fix. Yep You just go to the right. It should, it should be just should be just right there all right my name is Anchor Chen from Holago Networks presenting on behalf of my co-author, to anyone Holado Networks, presenting on behalf of my co-author, N-E-I-U. So this is, let's recap the problem. So this is a, it's really, it's a, it's a, it's the basically the, the rights election, you rip, adding BGP are currently basically, um, interaction, the algorithm, right? selection is uncoordinated or uncorrelate In RIP, basically, the everything, right selection, basically is uncoordinated or uncorrelate. In RIP, basically the everything, right selection, base path is based on this admi distance and in BGP is based on the local press and ESP, right? Although in the end, BGP is downloading to RIP and RIP dictates which we which one the best parts, but BGP has no idea about basically primary backup in the RIP. So when you be the best facts but PDP has no idea about basically primary backup in the rip so when when you redistribute your backup broad basically has no idea about basically primary backup in the RIP. So when you redistributing a backup route, based on admin distance, when we talk about backup, in RIF, it's all about admin distance When we redistribute the backup rod into BDP he put down the ordering the result would be different, sometimes basically later"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "example, we redistribute a local static run into BDP the static right becomes the best finding in PEP Sometimes something else. For example, the one you learn from EBDP becomes based on People don't ordering, the timing, right? This sort of so that's on one device Then there are several cases also evolving redistribution of the backup route. In a network wide, there are several cases that behavior is also long-deterministic It brings on the autory, the way that the local rod shows up in BP first, or in Ripford, or that IPDP path shows up first. Certainly, this is undesirable. It's actually very frustrating when our first experience as such a problem really years ago, it's very frustrating to see why is it behalf this way. Sometimes this is a best part, sometimes the other best part. I would say, long-dismist behavior is worse, actually. Then it seems not working completely, right? So this is a day one issue. It is a part. It's basically it's a lack, because the interaction is not specified it's a lack of specification VDP and this issue exists in number of implementations because the lack of specification Yeah, for the for customers and for the network operators for people who are aware of this issue what they are aware of this issue and there's a solution All this fact, of course, do you go ahead to the configuration but there are still a lot of people who are not following, who are not to know expert with the level of detail And from time to time, we still keep seeing this kind of report They all this is why this is not working"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "Then you have to explain to them because here when, you know, out of the box it does not work it's random non-deterministic, right? It's really very frustrating when I first ran into this when I was the network operator. All right what's the next one, right? Hold on, you should get it now Where should I point to? No, it's my, it's me, it's me. Try it again Is it working? Yes, okay. That's me I can't move my pointer. Here, let's recap the proposal, right? We basically our goal is to make it deterministic, right? First, of course, it's basically on the single device. Basically, there are several ways to source the route entry into the network either through right redistribution or through action or through EBDP right? There are three ways to source it You source mine, then you advertise your network. First, let's make it or through EBDP, right? There are three ways to source it. You source mine, then you advertise your network. First, let's make that deterministic. Because that we know for everyone of them, one of this type. We know the admin distance in red. We can also probably that into PEP, then we deterministic among this locally source rod we know the admin distance in red. We can also propagate that into PEP, then we deterministically, among this locally source route, we determine select one. Okay, this is basically, so the proposal here is basically say, when I say with no admission, it really refers to three types, locally redistributed EBGP and aggregates right Let's compare admin distance first before you do the local. How about doing the next? we have several cases along it means it behavior involving the value distribution into it So that's where your network, I mean this is out there. It has to be local player So basically when you redistribute, when you backup route into BDP,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "and if an admin distance is lower then the value for high BDP we need to lower the local craft to make the behavior deterministic, right? So that, of course, there's a configuration option if people really know about this stuff, right? That's always there, but here, what we're trying to say is that and so basically, in our implementation we can really make it automatic to cover vast maturity the common cases Okay so what are the updates? I need to apologize to the working group for the delay updating the draft and but it's better to be later than never And so we have addressed the comments from from the working group adoption, I believe it's two years ago and i went by i went back to the main list and I think I will look at all of them I also had a long decision with Jeff. So thanks, thank you to the members of working group for your comments and in particular for jeffrey haas and we have extensive discussion I think we point out the two basically areas ask us to basically to work on it And why is basically, yeah, here if you look at, yeah are basically two categories probably, why is the act? distance for local resource rights right that is no change there and I think the main vision about the simplification of the solution looks like we basically were engineered the solution. It's been too much trying to make it generic to cover all the cases primary backup tertiary, whatever. That does not seem to be necessary because most of the common cases is the primary data backer. If somebody wants to use study ones, let's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "be used to study rights, for example, for backup in more than two parts tertiary debated better know the details. They better know how to configure All these will move on to BPP, right? and so it's uh so i will go here for the simplification, let's make the primary, the common case is work, primary backup case, and for the rest either you require more use more configuration to me right uh isy do you i just i just have a quick one ac lyndum lab in so the basic problem here is that your, that static route is the backup route and that has a lower default admin distance. But if you were to can, configure, which you're trying to avoid, the admin distance, to be less preferred in BGP, it would all work right? Yeah. So is that a yes or not? Yeah, yes, that's correct. So basically here I think there are a lot more people in particularly in the enterprise. They know about admin distance They say this is how you compare study rather with the BP They know all that, but they do know the interaction. So they say if I say this, if I start with BGP, lot as BDP, BGP should take over, right? In all the cases, why? it only works, you know, sometimes, sometimes it doesn't with ordering issues it's difficult So we try and basically say, okay, that's fine You need to buy you ask that, I mean, we can take care of it you make it make it behave with you deterministic study runs back up you design a backup, it will remain as a backup. Because we that's that's the goal here anchor you've got about one minute oh i'm sorry I'm sorry. Let's focus. Go back up, it will remain at the backup. Because we have at VGV. So that's the goal here. Enker, you've got about one minute. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. And you've got Jeff and Sasha. Okay let me let me let me feel me so first is a simplification Okay, that we have down time. Remove the stuff that they could consider over engineer, okay? Second thing,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "second point is really, it's about several people coming you say okay here we are dealing with something that's already there in a field okay we trying to do backfeel about several people comment you say okay here we are dealing with something that's already there in a field okay we trying to do back fix we have to we have to make sure it's back of a compatible This is a, so, basically, there's an existing concern how do we make sure it's a sales actually for you to say to adjust to lower the local to make it heavy it's missing if you look at this, in our current implementation, you know, default parameter default behavior then on top you have a configuration that's it, right? Now, so what we are saying is this you basically you know to make it safe make it backward compatible with configuration you evaluate the config if the config attaches any of the primatures that impact raw selection, for example, local prep. Yes backward compatible with configuration. You evaluate the config. If the config touches any of the parameters that impacts raw selection, for example, local prep, ESP, MED, even origin, you then you don't do it. You don't do anything because this guy already know what he's doing. Okay, right, right? this guy is a safe. We've hit the end of the time on a day that we don't have. My comment what he's doing. Okay, right? Otherwise, this guy is safe. We've hit the end of the time on a day that we don't have. Okay, I'll make my comment. So I'll be, in May, I also posted a reference design UFR. This is something artistic covering both of the cases Yeah, I welcome to look at my intentions to be work on upstreaming at some point. Okay, Jeff Kitt has one of the co-chairs, Jeff gets one comment You got one minute, Jeff, thanks yes less than one minute hopefully So, Anchor, I haven't looked at the most current version of the document, but this is still putting implementation details into core BGP. No there are implementations that don't have this problem, they don't have admin distance in the same way. Preference existed like Judahberg in a slightly different sense. So my kind of still largely holds from last time. It's okay to document this as a set of practices for this type of implementation of distributed rIAB"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "but I'm not sure that should be a normative practice for BG as a whole So, Jeff, I think regarding that, I don't think this is implementation because there's a lack of specification in PDP right? This part of the behavior is not specific We don't have that problem. That's a good And please Jeff, and you discuss this on the list because details matter, but we've hit the end of our time. I apologize that we have that, but we need to go on to the next presentation Okay. All right, sure Okay. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry Hello, can you hear me? Yes we can. Go ahead. Hello this is function from Bawa. I would like you in introduce a simple intention to the BGP to carry the associated gateway exchange in the multi-segment SD1. Next page, please Yeah, first of the background on the multi-segment as you one. At first, we have a kind of single hope as you one as showing the NAP first of the background on the multi-segment as you are. At first, we have a kind of single hope as you one as showing the net. And it's basically an IPSEC term to the existing VPN pass And the BGP is used as a control name to pass the attribute the IPSEC ASA and the port attribute. And in this draft, the USE1 hybrid tunnel tunnel plan to test attributes, the IPSECSA and the prote attributes. And in this draft, the USE1 hybrid terminal type is introduced and the USE1 suffering And for this hybrid turner type, it has many subpoher weight carried the prototype attribute, ibisek, I'd say that kind of stuff And on the Microsoft, proposed this multi-segment as you want It's scenario that sometimes the global internet has"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "quality is not that good, so it used a cloud backbone kind of as a multi-hop as you want to know. As you can see from the figure it's not that good. So it used a cloud backbone, kind of as multi-hop as a C1 tunnel. As you can see from the speaker, the CPE1 to Gateway 1 is 2nd1, and the cloud backbone is segment 2 from the gateway 1 to the Gateway 2, and the Gateway 2 to the Gateway 2 to the CPU is segment 3 so it's 3 three, three segment of the turnos gates, D-Satigate from the SE1 tunnel from the CPE 1 to the CPE 2 And in the trial that they introduce the data plan change. They use the Giniiv as the SE1 turn And in the trouble, they introduce the data plan change. They use as the C.E.1. Turner. And, uh, and uh, uh, internal. And the Geneva header extension is introduced Basically, the data plan used to carry the information about the destination CPU that is the first sub-tier we called S Basically, the data plan is to carry the information about the destination CPE, that is the first sub-tier we called SE1 tunnel endpoint. And the second subterw is that is the source IPA address of the source API and the third is the IP address of the that that gateway Next page, please And since the data plan needs to carry the destination, gateway information, this information due to pass from the destination CPU to the source C CPE, so we propose a simple extension to the BG. And the process is works next follows. First, the CPE2, we are known to address of the Gateway 2 from the config or any kind of discovery protocol and the second it will advertise the IP address of the Gateway 2 through the BGP to the CPE1 so the CPE1"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "can put the Gateway 2 information into the data plan And to that end, we propose two simple attention The first one, the first extension is the new NIRI, because this information is tied to a specific CPE, not a specific terminal endpoint. So basically, it's a key to identify the CPE and in this MRI, DSC1-Conner, means site site ID under the node ID is the ID address of this of the CTE. On the second, is the new SE1 hybrid terminal subterner week carried the associated gateway address. Gateway address is IPVC or IGWA4 or IPA6 address So this is a simple intention and we would like to either your comments or answer suggestions. That's all, thank you Any questions? on this one? Well, thank you for the presentation. We may be tiring out toward the end of our Friday session I'm going to pick up the, we have two more presentations i will go to them quickly Thank you help me Yes, we can You're loud and clear. Okay Hello everyone. My name is Shia Chongfong of Chinese Telecom It's my prior to give an update on BGP extension and procedure for a BVBB IPV6 mapping advertisement Next please With the global department, IPV6, transition to IPV6 only has been an important trend So this document that defines MPP"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "extensions, that is from App 6 and the procedures for IPV4 service delivery in multi-door IPVAS-only, other networks. This draft was proposed in January 23 and adopted after IETF 180 Next please You know, multi-domy activists on the network IPVs for IPVs, sex transition mapping role is used by the Incruis to generate a desolation address from the IPV4, desolation, dressed by Stilis Miping So this is a scheme of for Map 6 mapping MPB extension, which is output of non-discussion within IDR working group, especially from the contributions of Jeff Thank you. It has been president last IETF meetings, so I do not repeat it again here. Next please So since IETF 190 the following review have been made, based on the suggestion of soon, the format of Formap 6 tonne of TLV in section 3.2 is revised by treating the parameter of address orange type and the forwarding type into two sub-tLVs And moreover, utilize or the validation rule in FC have say 1912 for the TLV and sub-TLV in this case is added as well. Next please Next Just give me it, you should have it now Okay. Yeah, section for have it now. Okay. Yeah, section 4.2, the behavior of Ingress P.E is updated by adding the tracking the readability of my paper fix received in the IPVAS and the network"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "to ensure its readabilities, yeah my prefix received in the IPVIS's and the network to ensure its readability. So as a section of ANA consideration revised and moved to section 8, and we also made it the network to ensure its readabilities. So as a section of anna consideration revised and moved to section 8, and we also made the editorial changes Next please. So next step, we'll make a system implementations and do the working test and comments and such a welcome and further refinement will be made to improve the code documents this is this is, so that's all ahead. Ketting d'alikar sisco Could you please explain the relation of this? BGP extensions versus the BGP extension? proposed in the draft? that was just presented earlier today? in Spring Working Group? Yes, this is just about the corresponding function in the control there The document is the mentioned is in spring working group, right? Yes, and I'm sorry, we don't need to do it now, but I have dropped an email on the spring working group. Yeah, I know you see your mail. You could discuss on there and I can copy IDR as well. Okay, I would give you feedback. Thank you. Thank you very much thank thank thank you katan any other comments online? Okay, we'll go on to the next presentation presentation Guyin, you have five minutes so hit the most important thing on your changes. Thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "Okay, we'll do, we'll do. Hi, can you hear me? Yes, you're a little loud, but that's fine. Okay. Hi my name is gyan mishra, and I'm presenting this draft on 4P on behalf of co-authors So I'm going to kind of cut to the main meeting gyan mishra and I'm presenting this draft on 4P on behalf of co-authors. So I'm going to kind of cut to the main meat of it. So this draft, I've presented this draft a few times. We have a few updates to the draft. So we'll just go to the update page So what I've done is I've streamlined, I cleaned up the verbiage, just made it a little bit more easier to read. I've added some terminology section that describes IVV6 only network. What I was doing, I was kind of referencing and creating too much just making it overly word So I've just cleaned up a lot of herbage and adding the terminology section really helped out a lot and just really simplification throughout the draft and and then any type of graph or grammatical layers just clean up so the draft definitely i cut down you know quite a bit in the draft. So I think now we are, we're in a good shape for an adoption um it Jeffrey and Sue, if you get a chance you know, take a look. I think now, you know, the draft looks a lot better than it was previous you know, before I did the update. So I think we should be in good shape. Thank you. Okay. Our next step for this will be to do a Shepard's review Comments are always welcome. Thank you Guyon, for the very quick and substantive update with that, we will close IDR and let you hit to the goodbye celebration. Thank you very much Thank you Thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:04",
    "text": "Thank you don't know Kind of small around. Yeah"
  }
]
