[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:38",
    "text": "okay I think we\u0027re gonna get started so this is IPSec ME at IETF 99 that\u0027s ran so we\u0027ve got the blue sheet starting around so I\u0027m sure you\u0027ve all seen this multiple times this week it is the new and improved note well please note that there\u0027s an update on this referencing RFC eight one seven nine so please be aware of that so today we have with two note takers and a jabber scribe thank you we got a rather full agenda today any agenda bashing yeah well we should have a few minutes for for open mic some some quick status on our existing drafts we have a number of drafts in in the editor queue that I\u0027ve just entered the queue 40 307 this and seven three two one dis are now in the queue TCP and cabs has entered the Edit phase so we should be probably hearing from the RFC editors soon and we recently requested publication of EB DSA so we should be hearing from the IHG soon on we have a number a number of other drafts that are probably ready to advance we\u0027ll be talking about theirs as we go into as we go through the updates on those drafts so with that let\u0027s talk about split DNS I said not and I was so happy we finally had these okay I\u0027m so speediness there weren\u0027t that many changes it\u0027s just a small diff we we synced up the document for this if she request reply payloads because we had come up with all these smart things of when we decided when we wanted replied to be valid or not but then was pointed out that the core RFC actually tells you exactly what to do and the summary base the point is that you can always send whatever you want and you can always ignore whatever you receive so we update the draft to say that then Tara came up "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:38",
    "text": "with an interesting use case where we wanted to limit the IP addresses reachable by the DNS server so that that we were sure that you were using the right technology for the right thing and I\u0027m Tara came up with his funny use case why he wants to do this on demand so he wants the IKE to be AC to be able to notify the DNS servers and an on-demand when sending a packet to the DNS server he wants the child√≠s a to come up so we changed the wording to say only unconfigured the dns when the I guess a goes down not one and if the IPSec recite goes down and there\u0027s no more limitation that says you know the DNS MUSC the dns must only be accepted if this IPSec has a is up and then the interesting part is that I sort of reluctantly agreed to change the presentation format to wire format based on the suggestion of tarot drop tables and and and I\u0027m actually back paddling on this I really don\u0027t like this I really want to go back to the presentation format because I don\u0027t really want a DNS parser in my code I know that one other implementation has the same thing and I think this is a manageable security item in the implementation and and presentation format it is much nicer to have in configuration files so we don\u0027t have to deal with the in Isaiah format no it\u0027s a if it\u0027s wider format uncompressed for your format it\u0027s totally trivial to do yeah so just a length of the Lebel followed by a bell and we have 0 0 which is empty level at the end it\u0027s totally trivial to do but both ways so you\u0027re saying either one is fine with you I say I believe presentation format it means a text tool a text so no the way of format its is Ashley that\u0027s easy and it\u0027s very easy it\u0027s it\u0027s better to for passing setup you can shake if well-formed or etc just keep it uncompressed we have the possibility to compress it which is bad idea so so you\u0027re saying you prefer wire format oh yeah yeah yes so DNS person I really prefer a wire format okay it\u0027s you don\u0027t need a mouse and two three lines of code to to do the things one question Chuck so you were saying actually that one of the things we probably are missing we should say that it\u0027s uncompressed or Excel should we say it must be uncompressed DNS is but if you do we have any next about that in there not a tomorrow okay so yeah actually that\u0027s actually a very good point we want to have it uncompressed to uncompress almost better that easier the orders to follow up question can I still go back to the original question do we want presentation for hard or wire format "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:38",
    "text": "know if you have escapes etcetera well how much is easier but I believe in this case most most penis configurations and most dns administrators are really used to presentation format when they type in redhead comm they don\u0027t really want to do like wire format in commercials and and that\u0027s an example if you now use a strong son who already implements these you know at this configuration payload put that from it and you can already use it if it would just be presentation format but it doesn\u0027t support anything while you\u0027re ready yes use on the sacrament in DHCP we add each two years for new things exactly succession our units at the end I understand today yeah I understand the DCP argument I also talked to Paul Hoffman about this and the only reason Paul Hoffman actually caved into the presentation format was that there was already three other use cases in DHCP that used to present a they use the wire format so only for consistency was an agreement to again use wire format but we have no precedence here right now this is the first time we\u0027re doing is so it the depressant here could still be disused presentation format Tommy poly so as another author on this I am I\u0027m technically fine with either way that we go I do also definitely prefer the presentation format to the wire format yes I acknowledge that it\u0027s it\u0027s simple to convert the uncompressed version it\u0027s easier to read the traces is easier for people to already configure the presentation format that\u0027ll kind of works by default without changing any of the code for many implementations also if we look at kind of the precedent we do have config request and reply attributes which are strings today we send identifiers which RFQ DNS as essentially strings and those are domains and we said we\u0027re like we do have cases where we send fqdn sister acts Mike please okay so so in given in so in all of the cases were actually sent something we sent you know one item we don\u0027t we don\u0027t send you no spaces they separated list of domain names or fully qualified domain names actually when we are actually sending an email address we are actually sending the email address parkour I think we actually you are not we are not allowing you to have you know this comment feels and you know this all of the other things that is actually part of the email address I think it\u0027s actually saying RFC eight to two of the address which is only the address part not they not you know mother so that\u0027s why I was saying that the gay we are not sending you know convict strings we are accessing items its have a very good no because here we have actually have a multi-line string having spaces having all the stuff separated or space separated list of you know items and no "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:38",
    "text": "no no there are no lists oh they\u0027re separate there\u0027s separate attributes every so you give the DNS domain multiple times if you have multiple split domains so you have no nose no spaces is a fixed length it says this is a fixed length of this essentially ask your utf-8 characters and that is the domain it\u0027s just like the fqdn yeah but I mean presentation format can have actually have you know all kind of other things also if I understand correctly if I\u0027m talking about same thing that we are actually having in you know for example you have you have a you have a backslash you can have a bad person lives in there it\u0027s actually it you know go so it has escaping mechanism is exactly it\u0027s kind of things in there you need even inside the one label terror if your concern is security on items on the string then after you\u0027ve converted a wire format to presentation format you still have to do your security because you still don\u0027t trust it so the security checks are the same net that\u0027s true I was also saying okay format also you are saying it\u0027s easier to understand but if you do what you think that what they\u0027re looking for the you know the frames anyway losing Wireshark Wireshark already knows how to you know decode their bar format so the actually though so you very nicely but what the NSA my format looks like inside it and even if I don\u0027t know why a shark will know that this option contains wire video just decode as DNS that\u0027s a default for trap format for Wireshark to do things that you when you have inside some other fields you are about the formats hey I still find these the security item minor but right yeah I guess I don\u0027t see that clear benefit to the wire format because it doesn\u0027t seem to increase the security because we have to convert into presentation format anyway the mobile we get it and it is a kind of unprecedented thing within Ike right so we\u0027ve been talking about this I think for the last couple of cycles and it doesn\u0027t seem like we\u0027ve actually made any progress on this decision so I would I\u0027d like to do a hum on on this of a Christian because I can\u0027t sees 0 1 draft and a phony 0 0 0 even is to do presentation format don\u0027t say it\u0027s a ski it\u0027s any byte including dot and he lived in is a road in in rabbits I don\u0027t think we say ask you know I think we say Dena\u0027s presentation format actually sorry No so the drought currently says Dena\u0027s wire format but we would change that to say Dena\u0027s presentation format and we will not say where it\u0027s punic oder ask your utf-8 or whatever it was they all say I ski they say there is no training dot because how much you have to for Friday if I don\u0027t domain name you should have a dot at the end ok and actually if they trust "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:41",
    "text": "anchors are they actually really one string and no no no the choice anchors are split on the field and actually the the field content is it specifically says raw so it actually is actually the the binary not base64 or the hex format so there you are using semi wire format but not the presentation format that not wire for I agree I would prefer presentation format there too ok so the the the choice before us is is whether to use presentation format or wire format so sure sure we can do we can do that too so we\u0027ll hum first for for presentation format then wire format then don\u0027t care so those that are in favor of presentation format please hum okay there\u0027s in favor of wire format please hum all right there\u0027s the don\u0027t care please have as I say please ask for don\u0027t care okay it looks like don\u0027t care winds weights means that that you know the outdoors can go with the presentation format that actually one of the things I want and then I want to have an examples also about all of this you know including that you know trust anchors great if we could record that in the notes is that it Paul alright next we have implicit IV hi sir well I think well so that the implicit IV for counter by surface it in IPSec so basically from the last version the thing we added basically from the last version but it\u0027s hard for me to read to read in the mirror but so the only thing we added is a reference to beast which is somehow the veneer Britta never abilities that has been subject to in TLS and well that\u0027s was all the comments from our former Eric so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:43",
    "text": "this is the only comment free we we add and I think we\u0027re done so for those who don\u0027t remember the content of the draft we can have it in 15 seconds or so Eric this is your comment so so can I get a show of hands to see who is who has reviewed this draft so what three or four so does anyone have any concerns with moving this draft forward to working group last call okay so we will will issue a working group last call on this after after this meeting thank you we have quantum resistant Ike this is gonna be Scott remotely right through Scott would you jump into the cube thank you okay yes this is about the quantum resistant I see next page yeah very quick background just in case anyone\u0027s missed it we\u0027re talking about music by the problem with with with I guess it is now is that if someone has a product computer they could break both of helmand there\u0027ll descriptively Hellman and Reed we all secrets we don\u0027t have a needs one with no one has a non toy to computer yet my ones concern is that they might be recording traffic now and then decrypting them later 5-10 years when they have a real computer next now there are what do we do about this the short term strategy is to simply just have both sides have a shared secret and stir that in drag key does security secure secret is strong they can\u0027t dive it that we\u0027re secure a long term strategy is to of course to attempt I to talk up to actually you that post quantum key exchange cerium protocol this talk of what I\u0027m talking about is a short term the next two talks will be about the long term in the next next page next thing then the previous working group meeting we we talked about these leaks read on the basic approach which is in the draft with we made the following tweaks we simplified how it was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:44",
    "text": "negotiated so that both initial exchange they both negotiate their part doing this and then during the keys key agreement they actually they actually they actually and an encrypted message that they also the initiators have grants said which let which guy like a label of what which key they\u0027re using it goes through it into their SKT ISP ours and then basically everything and all all he\u0027s derived from the initial I guess leg tracking is protected the only caveat is that the initial I guess a and answers like having questions that are not protected and if the the third thing which was was agreed upon is too much just how PJ\u0027s are to be transported out of and between the systems and that\u0027s the summary now next page okay uh basically we updated a draft I haven\u0027t we have a test implementation and quite frankly I haven\u0027t a whole lot of time on the mailing list about it so does there any comments from from the from from the group I see people lining up to talk just a quick note we have two other discussions on this there are two other presentations on this topic so I\u0027d like to hold comments to this draft specifically and then we\u0027ll talk about broader comments later okay Luis on and we\u0027re we\u0027re actually working on implementation so I will ping you soon to dementia thank you very much we have one so we can sleep in here interoperate Valerie Spencer for those plus hair insert about these ones this particular approach I think that there is one consideration that might be significant so in this approach Deepika BBK is used as an additional an additional credential to to reach quantum security so it doesn\u0027t replace an ordinary credentials like certificates from operational point of view it means that security administer should maintain two sets of security credential certificates and because pairwise and yeah I think I suspect it will be headache and at some point we will have we probably will have a situation well when security administrators get rid of certificates because they\u0027re useless from their point of view and we\u0027ll end up with BBK only and it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:46",
    "text": "means that they will use now null authentication in Ike and then apk to authenticate the second exchange has just won this consider this problem to be considered into the in the document and some text to be added okay what\u0027s for a text you you want to add to actually suggest that sort of approach or to to warn I can it that sort of thing I think that having to maintain two sets two independent sets of security credentials for in real mode is a big headache so operators will try to simplify is their own life well one situation you know what possibility of course we don\u0027t actually mention this on the draft as a law that\u0027s deliberate is to actually use both pre-shared keys MPV case and having them identical well either they will use group wise we became or they will get rid of certificates and using our authentication instead and then use PPK these are controls into a secondary syndication so if they use if they if they use group wise PPK I don\u0027t think is it it\u0027s good idea probably end up with likely one that\u0027s not good if they use null authentication for I can say for first I can say establishment and then immediately do Ricky with PPK you\u0027ll get authentication to get authentication to say that it will means that the first I can say will be using null authentications it is okay but it has some drawbacks first it is not acceptable to ddos attacks well it has a lot of drawbacks [Music] is that our sheet are 76 19 describes not authentications are listed so I think that some text must be added about these two possibilities and what I would drawbacks they both will bring because maintaining two independent sets of C it\u0027s very difficult in point of view okay could you then can I trouble you for two asking for the yes yes detects you would suggest them you can do that offline could you actually submit the they they give me some test text you you would suggest I\u0027m trained okay thank you yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:49",
    "text": "a week we can simply say must not be used with like no sorry with OAuth no because there\u0027s no point anyway like you Yuki like earth null is supposed to be you don\u0027t know this person and you will never authenticate them and so having a out of bound PPK negotiated already makes no sense in the context so we should just simply say must not and then and this danger will be limited I don\u0027t think that it must not is appropriate because you will exchange a PPK identifier then so it\u0027s a kind of identification okay thanks okay so actually one question for you so so do you think that you think that this document is ready for the last call after we have discussed after adding this nullification or multiple you know kronosaurus text but is there anything else that\u0027s right my opinion is that it is ready dan Harkins so uh I noticed when the the PPE ID is fixed it says both the PPK and the PPK ID are limited to be base64 character set so I\u0027m wondering why are you imposing the requirement on what the PPK itself is and I can see if you\u0027re gonna limit with the ID if not a fixed ID you\u0027re specified with the character set is but what do you why are you imposing this on the shared secret itself okay basically that was there\u0027s a suggestion from basically from the last working group brief previous graphs did not have any such food recommendations at all I thought that that was a sense of the work group that they wanted to make it easier to transmit the to change the so so in last meeting we had this discussion and people were saying okay having one format data to try everybody is easier than you know otherwise you have a hex format you have binary format if you have an ASCII format and then people can\u0027t in the insert spaces or or or noodles there so having base64 encoded stuff in there configuration file and in the excel you know data and it doesn\u0027t really matter right well no it does because it says it has to be a base64 character set so it doesn\u0027t matter but my recollection of that conversations that people wanted a way to a standard way to distribute the PPK and it does actually talk about RFC 60 which I believe was my suggestion in the last meeting to use just the symmetric "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:51",
    "text": "key envelope that PKK\u0027s came up with and honor he talks about doing that so that being the case why do you care what the formative the PPK is about is I thought one of the consideration was as well that based on experience with PSK is that people are afraid that they will limit themselves to the ASCII set to avoid problems of incompatibility of misinterpreting the format of the PPK and so people stick to a low entropy ASCII version instead of using the full range of randomness we have and that using basics the first sort of makes it easier that everybody can use a better entropy based people case Michael Richardson +12 to what Paul said I really think that if if this is hard for people to enter and communicate they just won\u0027t use it and if they don\u0027t use it then your feature will disappear so I\u0027m supporting what you want to say whatever you said if it\u0027s not easy to use they won\u0027t use it and if they don\u0027t use it it\u0027ll disappear from the products and then when the then it won\u0027t be usable because it won\u0027t actually be used right so what is before I just want to reiterate it of of key distribution is out of scope of the protocol so let\u0027s let\u0027s cut the line after this comment go so just to try to Claire Tommy Polly clarifying and adding on to those you\u0027re right I think what we want is it should be easy to configure but also taking in the direction of making it a strong key that\u0027s not just some set of ASCII characters and I like the current encoding and it\u0027s up to the implementations to make sure that you can easily distributed okay thank you so next up we have hybrid quantum safe key exchange for equity hi my name is CJ next slide so following on what Scott said so basically this is sort of a long term solutions to the threat when who knows quantum computer becomes available and if you were in the in a talk where Kenny talked about you should lover the first line then we should add perhaps a big engineering problem and then when it happens obviously then there are different obviously will be vulnerable and then there are also works already mainly research in the area of quantum safe Oh post quantum algorithms and Mesa you know having this call offer for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:54",
    "text": "selecting standards for worried suppose quantum algorithms and last thing I will mentioned about fixed compliance and again the statement from this that a current VPN protocol ID to for example that uses derailment if it is a fixed compliance and then by doing sort of a hybrid change we believe that I they still a fix compliant next slide please so what we sort of a proposed was that to do optional key exchange so having another key exchange in additions to the diffie-hellman and then a goal basically we want to keep the minimum as possible on the only modification to IV to we want to maintain the compatibility but IV to and also if needed in the future who knows we may want to face out those keys that are vulnerable next slide please so this is the current you know it\u0027s the early days and this is the that the the thing that we think that might might work right so we had sort of a qsk over there as the payload that carries this additional key exchange material and is it is sent as part of the the i key ike sort of a SI unit and then the esky see obviously the computation of that will be a concatenation of both shared secret and then the form the format of of the qsk payload is very similar to a DK payload next slide so obviously backward compatibility it\u0027s a something that needs to be addressed so we thought up the following let\u0027s say once need to implement a policy where we want to do a format to allow a classical sort of a si to be a to be established so basically the initiator will send a set of proposals some of them offering ke and some will offer a combination of ke and and post quentin crypto and then obviously one needs to mark the qsk payload as non critical on the other hand if you want to have a policy where only sort of a quantum safe channel to be established then on the si payload we only offer proposals that support qsk in combination with K and if needed then that you escape a lot can be much critical so obviously when the other side received that following RFC 1796 then one should respond with no proposal chosen but on the other hand and you know we have received a number of emails unique as to us people said there are in the actual implementations this might not be the case and also said that potentially might not be a good idea to introduce a new payload but I\u0027ll come to that later next slide please I\u0027m gonna go through this very quickly in internal si obviously it\u0027s a quite straightforward now it\u0027s the computation of a key map it\u0027s basically now requires a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:55",
    "text": "concatenation of the new element and the same with the khemsa rekeying of hlsa next one please likewise under each key in the ICS a we when there is a quantum say for key exchange then we\u0027ll have a new element in it okay so next one please now that was the easy part all right and the difficult part is these things the trouble with the key is using condom safe sort of payload is that it is very large and question for thanks but do what is large a very good question welcome to that so so we accented with a number of them the Latisse based system you can get something like a thousand five hundred bytes or octet there is a new one which can you mention is not too nice let\u0027s guess what if I question its any of those more than the 64 kilobytes there is one or two that might be that that causes a issues in in in all of our cases because we are much pretty much limited to 64 kilobytes in inaudible a 16-bit payload yes so this one as far as I know code based systems you\u0027re looking at a couple hundred of kilobytes of a public key so a sterol engines because he large in there so we\u0027ll have trouble with fragmentations just like you know fragmentation of the group here so we have consider number of methods to me to get fermentation the first one we consider for example is that okay we will use out of c7 383 apologies if I\u0027ve got the number wrong to use the fragmentation over there so that means we send a qsj payload as part of a key or unfortunately after some consideration we recognize nor good idea because then by then if quantum computer becomes available people be able to decrypt part of the i key oath meaning that URI you reveal your identity so we ditch that and the next one we thought okay in fact quite similar the first one why do you know why don\u0027t we just sort of a immediately reach EDSA once you\u0027ve got the i key of vision again the same problem the other one is that we pick you as a payload that has got a small public key size i mean one of them one of them that we considered is this SI d H which Kenny is not to invest yesterday is a very new scheme a drop-in replacement to defeat Helmand and that one we experimented with that and the key size only six hundred six hundred bytes and that you could send it as part of the AI is and then and then you sort of a do more on the channel si the other one the next one is to use to introduce the next sort of a state in between and then that we think that it might be too heavy and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:55",
    "text": "last one we sort of became lazy we use what Tommy proposed TCP encapsulations every scroller so um TV encapsulation or not I I would encourage you out to let their best be the enemy is it good here you\u0027re familiar tempting to I mean this is a hedge you\u0027re from rarely attempting to protect these your data if in a post quantum world the user identities are revealed for these are data is corrected that\u0027s a lot better than nothing and given that I\u0027m worried that all the other things adjusting are impractical one won\u0027t work mm-hm um like the likely as easy a likely outcome of not doing one of these earlier ones that you say there\u0027s an perhaps these are identity is nothing will happen at all which don\u0027t we strictly worse they\u0027re not these are entity except as you can find an elegant way to protect everything I was just practicing giving up an user identity and pressing other things okay thanks no powers so I think we already considered giving up on protecting the identity against active attacks because the identity leaks anyway in I cough if you\u0027re an active attacker you can just dude if your element to them yes oh okay all right so one of the things we had when we were at a villain there\u0027s actually think about this previous document one of the idea we had there that you could actually use that to plug in real you know chemically access methods in of in future which would mean that they we have we run this side method of generating the keys and then we configure them as as a PPK and PPK so so instead of so we three four I guess like in it on like out we actually run some it\u0027s something else that generates the PP case that are you the doc so that\u0027s actually one of the options and actually I think I actually I don\u0027t think you have it here after you had it you had in the middle but I think it\u0027s access would be even before you mean not even on the fourth one is something way because I\u0027m something you advocate actually might be using Coptic something it right using TCP it might be using something because i mean it\u0027s it\u0027s something that this you know think that you need to do beforehand but depending on how much actually you trust and what kind of protocol because some of those methods actually can get a rate you know you know multiple you know I don\u0027t this you can use so you don\u0027t have to necessarily to be run it on every single you know exchange you can actually do something that you create you know ten of these identities you can use in the future or something like that and and then run out before you run out of that you do the exchange again or something like that but it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s one of the ideas out of that and actually I think the fragmentation ruin the fragmentation it\u0027s actually good thing because Rex one of the things we have I think if I run correctly tape I guess a payload yeah length is 32 bits yeah only the UDP I know kind of that things they are on a Bop and senior payload like the 16 bit so actually we can have you know really "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:56",
    "text": "huge Ike payloads like buckets having lots of palos in engine reason payload must be less than 64 close ok thank Sarah what it is myself first a question about the size of this exchange method I\u0027m not familiar with them can the public key sent be compressed it\u0027s probably not because you know we think about the keys yeah quite random so even in compress it then you know it\u0027s not much gain from there probably we need to consider a general generic like fermentation for you so you meet yeah we\u0027ve not always my next slide actually okay I have another question about the probably well why do you need and you they lured to transfer I hear some and don\u0027t use load instead I mean I\u0027ve got a few email unique hash to us and also from Scott and the reason being is we thought you know semantically we\u0027ll look nice but yes you\u0027re right it can also be done using existing simplify simplify all the situations and be more compatible backward-compatible and during the reason you have both Korea and Chris kept notice only reasons again I can think of is that you don\u0027t trust then you don\u0027t trust the security that is the new key exchange method gives so you combines both exchange most traditional difficult man and this new exchange but if you trust then why not get rid of difficult man and transfer quantum secure exchange in college itself simplifying yeah it\u0027s at a moment of every seed as you know it\u0027s still in the transitional process I mean obviously existing equipment that uses ke payload people cross certification and things like that I don\u0027t think we can throw that out anytime soon next slide so after receiving a lot of these unique as to us on this so no so that meant to answers on your point is that we also consider if it\u0027s possible to to fragment I say in it so one thing we came up with is to use these things on the initial sort of a exchange you send sort of a notify paler to tell the other side do you support that if they do then they come back with a cookies and and also to respond with this a qsk notify basically that contains sort of a indication that they supports it so we didn\u0027t BSA a payload then there\u0027ll be number of proposals sort of a indicates in there here we assume and again using the the key escape a lab button again the same concept we need to address that that again it can also be be carried in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:57",
    "text": "the ke payload so you can see that our we try to send a number of sort of a fragment version of QA k qsk payload using these things I\u0027m not sure it\u0027s a good idea yet but we are still exploring these things and then in order to defragmentation the maybe add a some some fields in the in the structure and then there\u0027s also a few ethnic so critical that that is used to indicate whether or not there is a fragmentations in in this in this payload as I mentioned this is very very new we\u0027re so exploring these things and it\u0027s not even in draft form is something that we work on after receiving a number feedback on this next slide please so we also got a source source code on this thing so we use a strong chuan and and people who are interested and obviously is there I mean obviously fragmentation is not there yet but VDS change is all working over there and feel free to are sort of a used it and it will be helpful to hear any sort of feedback and I know some on the end the draft or maybe later so we do you want to do question hour later after hi okay so what I mean here is that this is this is something that is new item is going to be requiring charter update and actually details about how the how we actually put there and with what and what kind of bits and bytes and we put in there is something that we need to decide in working group if we decide that we are so good to work under that I think we are going to be deciding because there seems to be lots of interesting this but anyway so so I think it\u0027s too early to start talking talking about what kind of fragmentation and TCP and whatever where do we put those things sort of great Makovsky NCSA yeah thanks EJ for his draft I think it\u0027s a good all the document Thanks the one comment I\u0027d like to make is I notice in the draft you make mention of specific algorithms for perfectly exchange and you you know you have certain values listed for them and public key sizes I think it\u0027s probably premature to be doing that or I think it\u0027s probably not appropriate for this particular draft I absolutely agree with you and that was basically sort of a legacy as we tried to put some numbers of strongswan so that you know you should take that up and I would treat it as sort of how long would do this thing when you know when it should one needs to do these sort of a keys hinge so during sag we just heard like a optimistic estimate of like this will take seven to ten years before we figure out which algorithms were going to use so I\u0027m wondering if this work isn\u0027t a little bit premature like I like experimenting and I think that\u0027s a good thing but where do we draw the line like and I\u0027m just looking at working group chairs and the 80s for that so actually we do design our programs "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:59",
    "text": "our protocol so that they have a crystallographer ability so we need to do that here too so we actually I prefer to mix what makes what our system is so that we can actually run multiple of these mechanisms so we can actually do experimental and see what what works what doesn\u0027t and so on and yes I agree that I don\u0027t know when we actually going to be designing bits of those algorithms are going to be the mandatory to implement you know algorithmic or at least are must not just because they are broken but we\u0027re talking much more about that than algorithm agility right we\u0027re not talking talking about removing AES and putting in charge we\u0027re talking about like maybe a different Ike exchange or maybe it different like a whole fields or like like I don\u0027t want us to commit to any of these sort of little things that\u0027s why I want to I went to five years later thrown some big plop to that and another one send some to serve some calculations and simply big block that then we have a shared secret I guess most of these are this kind of blocking replacements fortify Hellman if it if there\u0027s some algorithmic that requires you know seven round trips and doing some weird things in the middle that\u0027s something that is not going to be for example the current mechanism is I think works with every every kind of this kind of plug-in algorithmic for the film on which has one economist it\u0027s going that way one match is coming - by and then we have a shared secret you know I mean if you go four or five slides back I see something about having a transfer and a little concern about if implementing implementation will take it if you\u0027re adding a transform it means that you\u0027re this is this is the wire that the axe you need to decide when the working group will decide how do we actually get it but what\u0027s best backward compatibility and best you know forward you know ability so i think that\u0027s what i was signed trade me don\u0027t need to we don\u0027t want to decide all those now Brian wise Cisco I think part of the concern might be an eye on a registry for algorithms that we know about now that may want to reject later how do we set up an experimental eye on a registry I don\u0027t know so it seems it seems like there\u0027s a lot to discuss here be useful to get more comments on the draft and and there\u0027s on the list me to call oh yes sorry well we\u0027re gonna go to meet echo can hear me yes even he Phillip LaFrentz I serve a population so I just want to express because this problem is something that we donated some resources and we essentially came up to pretty similar conclusions and crucians as you guys did but we would love to help out with this trance and really catch so we don\u0027t think it\u0027s a good idea it is obviously but we definitely see the space okay thanks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:06",
    "text": "okay I just want to basically doesn\u0027t mean there\u0027s been complaints about the complexity of it there are basically two complex questions here that they\u0027re trying to address one is is how to to actually have 8a both a traditional and quantum algorithm because we don\u0027t necessarily trust a push quantum out-of-the-box fact I\u0027ve said I would advise asking allowing multiple most quantum algorithms the other question is is how to do fragmentation other than those questions that the problem is completely trivial thanks thank you hello this is kind and almost everything said I don\u0027t want to waste time on motivation and solution we did some experiments with my Kelly\u0027s some years ago and the key size of McAleese is way beyond 64k by the way last year the New Hope algorithm showed up and there was an implementation and strong Swann and we also did some experiments with that we did some measurements and anybody who is interested in some comparison numbers I love to share that and so but these are PQ only mechanisms and what we heard today and yesterday and what\u0027s the common solution at the moment from the crypt cryptographers is said to have a combined weight on mechanism by classical th and by AP q and next slide please as we heard there is no simple drop in solution we have this fragmentation issue that has to be solved and if we use the TCP thing then yeah that\u0027s the page but it it was my purpose to use Ike over UDP we have some pros and cons to move the quantum JFK exchange into the Eickhoff exchange that that makes the I guess a not quantum safe but as being already discussed or heard this might not be a problem because it doesn\u0027t address active attacks at the moment and yeah the other thing is the signalling issue that is also we have may be more difficult to solve where to put this combined exchange we can use a new transform type for post quantum safe "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:07",
    "text": "agreement then we can combine these transforms and then si payload but what I what I see is that the key exchange payload is currently cannot refer to a specific transform type it only refers the traffic transform ID so we cannot easily combine different key exchange payloads in the in the exchange or we can have a transform type for combined methods so that act that explicitly says I want to combine two method to key exchange variants and maybe we need both to face out non PQ agreements in the future so but that\u0027s something that I love to discuss on in the working group if the working group is going to adopt this problem thank you so I have to apologize for not like a koala but um yeah if you\u0027re not gonna ask if you can specify it as if it were alternative to diffie-hellman right you want to be sure you signal I can\u0027t use this alone so I don\u0027t know is it that\u0027s the point of the second the second point which is that combined usually how you would say I won\u0027t use this road if the almond yeah and he\u0027s like it\u0027s cut it\u0027s like really bad if you just use the vq thing without the V element dan Harkins so uh it seems to me that moving this QE payload or you know ke payload or whatever to the icon exchange solves two problems right it\u0027s gonna it\u0027s gonna fix the fragmentation problem because there\u0027s already an RC for doing vitamin and it addresses the backwards compatibility issue because you can in the I guess and negotiation you can send some notify that says you know I do quantum but by the I do the PC to PC ke thing and the other guy will either if he doesn\u0027t send it back then you know that you\u0027re you\u0027re unable to send the the the PQ ke and the and the DI Karthik\u0027s exchange so I think I think there\u0027s really no argument for putting that in the in the I cough exchange it just causes two problems that that was all conclusion to for the moment yeah and and as Eric said you know the what we lose is identity protection if somebody does break aniseed eh yeah but maybe we don\u0027t care at my answers okay so oh do you have still comment about this just quick because because post this presentation or previous on our mumbling about transform type so I do want to make my point about transform "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:08",
    "text": "types that if we add a new transform type you basically do doubling the proposals because you have that list of proposals we have we\u0027ve already did this once for a a DS and so now we\u0027re gonna have four proposals for each thing it\u0027s gonna get silly it\u0027s it\u0027s going to get I question one again which had 250 actually it was limited 256 proposals that\u0027s why we couldn\u0027t propose everything so anyway so this is something as I said our current Charter says that we do about the same post quantum protection about having accurate and one meaning the preset key type of thing this is out of our current charter we are going to be recharging anyway in Singapore because we our charter ends in 2017 December so we are at this is something that I think there is clear you know I would actually want to get hung if you think that we should actually include this in charter so we can actually get ready to invited by the Singapore that\u0027s our during discussion so who are in favor of adding some kind of you know not be not preset keep based on you know first quantum crypto algorithm thing in Ike version in India charter for the it for the next charter not yes sir this document not necessarily you know not trying any any specific algorithm is not trying to take specific signaling method just in it\u0027s something so who those who are in favor hum now and those who help and those who object okay so I think it\u0027s clear that we are going to be adding this asset to the charter item that never seems to be quite strong you know hum of adding this so I think there is probably going to be people interested okay thank you no we do not ready to say no okay sorry so I\u0027m just gonna test the mic so long huh it\u0027s not you could just use the ones from a big yesterday try to find the L "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:15",
    "text": "big ones probably these are the most abused that Gloria Moraga mom why don\u0027t you go ahead and introduce your topic and then we\u0027ll get the slides up in a sec okay so our topic is a mini milk v2 implementation so a group based internet key exchange and it is minimal in so far that it\u0027s a subset of the actual protocol that is meant to be run on a constrained client and what we did is actually only the implementation so there\u0027s no draft or whatsoever and we got some nice numbers about our tests and I can totally understand now how you cannot read it in the mirror so I don\u0027t know you could just look it up in the LV group I guess they had slides from yesterday so I\u0027m not good at stand-up comedy sir I\u0027m sorry singing you wouldn\u0027t want to hear that I that looks better so once again minimal tip2 client the draft that is linked there is not ours but the original geography to draft yes you can just stay there and so how far is it minimal but what we do is just reduce the protocol to a subset required to get a si and maintain it and the result can be seen here so different to the normal equity we have got a communication between a constrained client and a key server the first step I guess I in it is the same as in the normal I quit you actually the same as in the minimum equity second step is a bit specific to the GSI or you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:16",
    "text": "still send an identity and authentication value but there\u0027s no negotiation going on here so additionally you send a group ID which which size you wish to join that group and the key server authenticates you decides if you are allowed to join a group then answers here with its own authentication and identity and the SI properties and the corresponding keys and keys i ricky looks pretty much the same as the response to cheese i off as you get authentication cheese a properties and the corresponding keys and there\u0027s two sets of keys the transport keys and key encryption keys one which you used for the communication in the group the second it\u0027s used for the wreaking so next slide please so our implementation is built on ride OS in on the top you can see a theoretical theoretical RAM usage of our implementation so we figure out it\u0027s gotta be around six kilobyte and on the bottom you can see the parameters we used so we used AES 128 cbc for encryption I shot 365 for integrity and a sha-1 for deep seeded random nests and the SAC fijian at 6:56 are one for diffie-hellman which is only because we didn\u0027t have any other diffie-hellman group supported on these devices and we tested this on three different devices the Arduino Uno I\u0027m 0 and tor and as it turned out the other you know uno is just too limited in memory to fit the actual implementation so and only ask you to kilobyte off from so that\u0027s it about that for the other two we took some time measurements next slide please so what you can see here from the left to right are the steps in a protocol the preparation of the SA inert processing of DSA in the preparation of G off and processing the earth and what you can see here the big one is the diffie-hellman shared secret calculation which is quite big compared to the rest but actually a quite good result like under L on the right side you can see these are packets encrypted with the AES which actually don\u0027t really take much time and I guess 400 milliseconds or 188 for the shared diffie-hellman secret is quite a nice result here next slide please so again how did the minimization we just took up I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:17",
    "text": "optional payloads and reduced it to all you need to get through the essay and to maintain it and it would actually be interesting to specify I a server configuration as a main problem or the biggest messages we had handled were the server messages which included a lot of vendor ID payloads notification alerts and so on next slide please we will release our implementation on github I guess it\u0027s gonna be somewhere around next week next two weeks and I would be interested in your opinions on whether this should be documented in some form or minimizations and yes that\u0027s it from my side hi my Cisco so just for the sake of people who aren\u0027t familiar with this this geography - is a draft that Valerie and you of and I have this meant to protect multicast IP SEC it\u0027s there say we weren\u0027t looking at the constrained case but it\u0027s really quite interesting to see that it it looks like it could at least the group member side can run on the constrains case and can run worth a commercial version of a key server I think it\u0027d be interesting to see this work with the minimal ESP and then a small application to actually show that it works on these small constrained devices Queen dang um I have a question um you would like to be many more in your space why do you implement both H max in depth and that base this actually a good question yeah and and also for the strange a little bit for the BRF you truncate a sha-1 to 96 so it\u0027s as if we\u0027re about to do that um yes the actual algorithms we use are not part of the minimization itself so it\u0027s more about the minimal protocol protocol messages you need in order to get there you can still choose your parameters like quite similar to the minimal like which was released last year and you are totally right but if I understand correctly those actual algorithms are coming from the operating system yes so you know it\u0027s it might be there anyway I don\u0027t know if you guys if you actually remove them it might be using them frogs also like magnet Michael but Mike not actually yeah that\u0027s right if you\u0027re using the crypto module they\u0027re gonna be there um I think 43:7 biz actually says something about you should use the same algorithm for PRF an in tech issue here but so so I have one question here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:19",
    "text": "because we actually support area director also so wake up yeah yeah so so this is again this is the not minimal version but this normal equation to a group you know Kim and I spend the right person to is craft that has been out for starting for 2010 or something like that and it because em sector a group is dead it can\u0027t go there and of course never start discussing about should we actually have it you know ad sponsored or should be taking the working group of course we are going to be rich altering Singapore so that\u0027s actually very easy place to take it in and advance it through the working group instead of advancing through the area director so that\u0027s actually one of the things I would ask for area directors comments which will you prefer people ask me more clear right director versus not so this is an area director I prefer things like if they\u0027re working group I would prefer things to go through the working group all right so did I have Kristen cruel others in this particular topic but like in general these are if they\u0027re working group I\u0027m involved with this draft role all right but so I have a question for the croup then who would think that this actually would be useful to document this in to have this GDL GI person to to go through the working group and and to be able to item or attitude the Charter so we can actually working at this book this would actually be this specific trust going through but the back pocket gets changed control if you to be able to contain shit so those who are who actually think that we can actually answer that Kirsten sorry I\u0027m a little confused if we\u0027re talking about the group a specification being added or the most groups group teammates it because we have to have that done before we can have a mini monolithic the minimal actually belongs to the LV IG not in here because it be here we only do things that are you know modifying the protocol or the minimum ones try to stay within the protocol but just specify what you need to implement so I wonder if you can actually make a ham here or no I let\u0027s let\u0027s make a home here we can always paint it so so who thinks that this would add this group i person to as a working writing me to there for the next charter hum now okay who thinks that we shouldn\u0027t be doing this and it should go somewhere else okay i think we are going to add that the desert charter items for the next singapore show anyway thank you and I really like the numbers that was very small business off next please so I\u0027ll be shot some you know probably just remind you a few things about my bike my "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:19",
    "text": "bike is the particles it is used in like we do an extension to reduce it the last piece to change the IP addresses surfaces result full are establishing of essays so it is a simple approach and just sent information exchange containing update addresses notification and from using the new addresses next please so this is this picture just shows how karma backwards just as an example so first it says established its its oversimplified but some things are left out by extension since are shown so I could say anything i calls exchanges it both when I post PS indicates it is if they support my bike and when initiator want to change its IP address it sends update to say there is identification using new address in this example IP double I and so responding responds and updates its addresses addresses office a suppose initiated and just put a move to a new address and X please the no bike has one limitation well in general only original initiator is responsible for changing IP address at it is even states in section 2.1 of RFC 4555 and so if not is in between then depending on the not behavior original respondent may not initiate update may or may not initiate update because not can block incoming connection without previously seen packets going outside and if original respondents multihomed zone it may not be able to instruct in shelter to switch you say to another address even if you want to so my boy can general permit initially responded to to try address update procedure but a in presence of that it will most probably fail well my bike has an appropriate prohibition mode where both beers states that not is not allowed in this case everything would probably work but I think that this case is mostly useless in real world because Knights are not so almost everywhere currently and next please so the concepts of limitation is the network asymmetry introduced by restricted cannot this is just an example so if respondent address is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:21",
    "text": "changed some response to change s address to IP Double R it tried to send information exchange but with no mapping this packet will probably drop by net in between so as a result say is deleted so not please this limitation has a negative effect first for example this case when responder is a cluster comprised enough not each in its own IP address about sharing security credentials the cluster cannot on its will move say from one node to another for example for billions and purposes thousand effect that if for example respond is multihomed and one of its interfaces shuts down it cannot quickly in start initiated to move say to existing say to another interface it must wait until initiated detects and the further dual probes and perform switching to and others Oh next please so proposed solution is as follows so respond to requests in jet initiator to move say to a new address by initiated informational exchange inside this exchange and you notification switch to IP address which contains and you responders address address and to do with middleboxes this exchange is initiated from old say address so but initiate a response to an you responders letters which is inside our notification so it is a violation of section 2 dr. Mariner RFC 72 96 it requires it respond or responding of exchange always respond to address well like it come from so ok well after that initial it immediately starts talking about procedure to move to update this addresses so question oh ok next please so this is just an illustration so when this point I want to switch it to move existing say to address a P Double R it sends an affirmance it starts informational exchange from old address in blue I PR but IP Double R is inside information mode so initiator gets this exchange so it comes through the not because it using existing mapping and after that and shaker responds to these new others IP table double are in green and it creates a new mapping on net so that the next package that will be sent "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:21",
    "text": "so the next communication communications that will take place after that ghost or not smoothly so next please so interaction with my bike it is very it is very easy to support support initiation for this extension is we can use data the data offer notification for my back supported physically currently empty and must be ignore it for unsupported mobike appears so if you we can add here similar even a single bite or some pretty fine streams it indicates that in the chance to support this extension so next please so thanks what do you think alright there are communion I think it\u0027s a very bad idea to start puffing packets to send packets that from the IP address that you don\u0027t own is going to be dropped anyway because I mean the first up first hop router will sector oh I get this address that is not belonging to any of my it rephrase it shouldn\u0027t be coming from here doing source address validation it actually drops a pocket well they should be doing that I don\u0027t do it but they should be doing well but but but I guess said they will do that more and more because they are just poof we need something that this you know considering the attack and people are trying to you know protect against it so so and and making a protocol that relies on being able to send spoofed pockets well it is not it is not really spoofed packet actually well both interfaces can be up you are owner of both addresses you just want to switch from a different case if you if you if you are into interfaces you have a you know of Wi-Fi and you have a 3G and you are and device you can actually do that already in a more bike you send their address update that you delete the first address that Wi-Fi address you only keep their keep the 3G address and then then indicator we notice that oh the address that I\u0027m using actually got lost so I need to do address update now myself to have to start using the other address so that actually works already the only case very doctor unit which doesn\u0027t work is that when you lose the address completely when you then you don\u0027t have an address the pocket Civic or address you could send the pocket to the other end and if you lose the address then you don\u0027t the address anymore so you can\u0027t use it well that will probably work but it doesn\u0027t well it doesn\u0027t allow responded to well after that after that procedure you\u0027ve explained the initiator will on its wheels move to previous address because then you\u0027ve set up datacenters addresses game I think so you cannot control you cannot force him to serve each Java one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:22",
    "text": "particular dress it is not preferred to you the responder for what burns games is very important so you you you will probably be sweet initiator to move to another address but once again you will update the cell addresses for both addresses it will fit again back so this is still as a mes not to share over but yes in that case yes it sweet seek the new address telling data and you should switch lose this address and our own all of the addresses is still fine and that\u0027s actually one of the things we got can specify but having found something that\u0027s saying always use disproved address and resend pockets been from this proof others that\u0027s I think they will get quite a lot of discusses in a you know from iAds anyway if we start doing that so so I don\u0027t propose but anyway we are running ok now that\u0027s a chair we\u0027re running out of time still respond so I want to secure it is the problem exists I probably should considered solution all right so from the working group again this is something that make Viper taught to take as an item some kind of this kind of item not predict but I need a prototype old because there is mobile is still related to IPSec so it actually could be part of this working group or could not this whole this is actually something we have to decide it\u0027s currently isn\u0027t in the Charter this is something that we can also add it that the Charter if you want we have to talk with the area director about that and because it\u0027s a little bit more further away than you know then other things to be actually I think I\u0027m able to talk with our directors first so I added take a hum now but we don\u0027t think about this and but this I don\u0027t Singapore what we are if I going to work in this of this kind of the or added ec2 charter so Brett Jordan I would like to echo your point so long as this does not include the ability to spoof an IP spoofing an IP is bad from every which way from Sunday so if as long as that\u0027s clarified then great but if it even remotely has the option of having a spoofed IP then I would be against it yeah we had a lot of discussion about this when we\u0027ve perverse text in our TCP encapsulation about using port 443 and there were 80 comments quite a lot of all right so I think thanks and we again we have one more presentation diet ESP and we have you have about five minutes so hiya Tobias here I will just quickly present in just status update on diet ESP next slide please so for those who don\u0027t know we discussed it quite a few times also here and the last time we really did just discussed it was in Berlin in the 6lo meeting because it\u0027s about compressing the ESP packet and that was quite some support that people wanted to use IPSec in constrained environments but because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:23",
    "text": "it\u0027s more IPSec related we were asked to move back here and we kind of redesigned that is PD sign we had before we move to something which is more similar to the what was we now call it ESP header compression it\u0027s not based on rock anymore it\u0027s more similar to the shake they try to specify for LP ones and yeah we have some implementations on Kentucky Python right and Linux for the curl there\u0027s something ongoing and we also have a publication on that measuring some results that we can actually save energy on that so next slide so the idea is to have compression rules which define how each fields of the ESP packets is going to be compressed and we have function how it is compressed for example sent value just means don\u0027t compress and lead it means just indeed it is and get it from a predefined context and tidy SP is one strategy just saying how to use this functions next slide so just some oh yeah the title is kind of missing you see it at the top we can say for an IOT VPN scenario we can save 68 bytes which is quite a lot if you consider the scenarios of IOT but we could talk about maybe 128 bytes of MTU or even less and what we define is the one on the right here basically everything in the red is pretty ago she ate it the rest is got from traffic selectors and SAS we already have next slide we also try to be more open for other use cases outside IOT so this would be an example for traditional VPN VPN so we could compress the inner IP packet of a VPN in this case it\u0027s ipv6 we can also do ipv4 and also ipv4 and ipv6 and ipv6 and ipv4 and also just defining a few compression rules yes next slide so the question we were thinking about what is better to actually have better compression or more complexity because the better the compression do more complex is to negotiation and the second question is how to move forward with this document tommy Polly Apple so I guess to the second one I think this is really cool and I\u0027d like to see us continue working on it and get specified for these constrained environments to make sure that IPSec is a viable option there so I think we should continue we\u0027re kind of for the first one I guess based on your "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:23",
    "text": "work so far where do you think we are on that scale currently between conversion complexity so currently kind of strategy which we at the moment called IDs pivot so sure it was just a strategy for scenarios and the complexity of negotiating is very low because we get a lot of stuff which already is there if you consider other use cases we can either define new strategies or included in the strategy making the strategy more complex so at the moment we are trying to minimize the complexity but maximize the compression that\u0027s the current use case on RIT that\u0027s where I mean that\u0027s ideally what you would want to do yeah yeah just like looking at your most compressed example that seems quite good and I think I would be happy with that on the rudely constrained devices and so I think that\u0027s a I think it\u0027s at a good place mmm never guard okay thanks so I think one of the the balance between complexity is when we have mostly ipv4 in ipv6 or the reverse it is currently some compression is is being made but by you Ray you decompress by taking the parameters from the outer IP which doesn\u0027t matter if they are not the same darshan so the question is should we add some complexity at that point or should we just leave it uncompressed for the regular VPN Tommy my impression would be leave that simple because hopefully a lot of these use cases can I would like to see them converge on all v6 and if it\u0027s an incentive to keep things in a consistent address family to make it more compressed that\u0027s great all right I have question I understand that this is still doing exactly the same you know when you you take a ESP pocket you compress it you get something that you sent the other and you decompress it and then you run get X at the same ESP pocket back yes hopefully exit except of course you know the sequence number you miss you don\u0027t change you just assume it\u0027s funny bigger than the previous ones yes true on the other hand there\u0027s also sequence number compressions it\u0027s no penance talked about yeah that\u0027s probably one of the things that they actually do to have a little bit more complexity that we actually want to recover from cases per sequence number good okay so the question is now is tax rate this is okay in something that has been tried ESP has been here a couple of times and this is again it\u0027s not something that actually modifies you know the pail of payloads in the or actually slice pillows in the wire but not actually the original ESP pocket is going to be same so this is still kind of somewhat similar I kind of think that food calls as a like with implementation guidance instead of the year but I think it actually might be better here because we actually we know better here what we can do no that\u0027s what I was thinking about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:24",
    "text": "should we actually add this also in the Charter for the Charter discussion for Singapore of course all of this needs to be you know confirmed in in a list and also in Singapore we have to get the 80 and 80s to accept those so do you think that I\u0027m going to ask for hum how many people actually think that this should be included or should not be included in he in here some kind of this tsp actually in this case it\u0027s probably going to be this draft and full of course modifying it as we go forward so how many people think that we should include this in charter hum now okay how many people think that we should not include this in the Charter there must be something wrong with Mike because I we can\u0027t be this you know so the mic is working maybe just got 2% on Friday afternoon all right yeah only the hardcore hardcore IP sick people are here doctoress yeah all right so so next question is has anybody any other topics or Salvi starts heading for the airport oh we have also co-chair of Phi 2 and s F so if you\u0027ve been following the mail and if there was this thread on both lists about the proposed work item for i2 an ACEF about having Sdn controllers configure IPSec endpoints and there\u0027s seems to be a kind of a disconnect between the IPSec people especially the P n people as opposed to the data center and SD n people so what we\u0027re planning to do other than come and sabotage the I to NSF meeting every time is to hold the virtual interim meeting I will probably schedule it under the I to an assessment and invite people from both groups to discuss and see that if we\u0027re even talking about the same thing they might be just talking about transport mode within the data center in which case the VPN people just shrug and say okay with what do we care or are they really intending to configure VPNs running all over the world which is kind of not the usual thing you do with that\u0027s the end but you know things begin small then grow big all over the internet so expect a doodle poll and then a scheduling of virtual interim sometimes in the next few weeks with the RFC seven four to seven the digital signatures authentication one so there are two versions for RSA one could be PSS and another could be pkcs so we don\u0027t really have a way of negotiating this specified in the RFC itself there is another draft that is a four three zero seven bits which says that PSS must be implemented and because CAS may be included but even "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:27",
    "text": "then if we still have to support both we need to know how we should tell the initiator or the responder that we\u0027re choosing that so could we have a method or a way to figure out what the other person is using because we don\u0027t know and to read to do the interoperability test right now strongswan uses pkcs and it does not use PSS as mandated it is it they\u0027re actually remember correctly can actually see it from the payload it\u0027s exactly the same problems that is presented in civil so the working group with the turn decided that it is not a real problem but currently one more people run into it okay so if people want to talk about that you have to propose a charter item further Singapore I think about chopper designed about if you want what kind of proposal about what we actually want to have but anyway has anybody have everybody turned the blue seats already up like probably so no I I do think it\u0027s a real pronto because deedie hash the de notifying Ike in it for the the signature is just not good enough for us and we\u0027re running into this problem now and we suspect it will run into more problems later when things get more complicated with post quantum things so I do think it\u0027s naughty we should consider to put on the charter all right so so I think that\u0027s all so you "
  }
]