[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:48",
    "text": "So let's now. One minute positive pointed over. Let's go. And there's plenty of room at the front of the room here in because you haven't noticed."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "Waiting for the order to. I mean, this is such a controversial topic. Everyone shows that for it. Alright. Hey, John. Nice to see here. So I have a bunch of the usual slides slides. slides, Yep. Yep. And you If you haven't see the note well, you haven't be long enough. You should read it. And Usually instructions about Remember the sign in. Because otherwise, we we will not know that you're here. Yep. And they used to They use the number of signed in participants to determine room sizes for the next meeting. So We might be a meeting in a room cloud broom closet or something. But So resources. And we have agenda. These these drives are available on and a meeting material in case you didn't look So Again, is identical to london again then. We have three three documents, and And one subject for further discussion."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:04",
    "text": "And I think we're a little further along than we were in in London. So let just let's just get on with. Standard questions? Has read draft? Who support going to working group last call at this time? And who thinks are is used to be solved before work pass call. We might want to take a look at easy trackers which we have a few not More people. I'm telling there's there's so much room at the front here. Can have a table. So without further ado. Martin. You want to talk about little? One is perhaps strong, but... Yeah This is not. Well first, I This are the this is the wrong slide. I'm sure. There should be an updated slide somewhere I sent you a message that I updated it. So Yep. I I prompt the last. Okay. So while Harold is finding the up dated version of this slide, I I have most of it in my head. So actually, not the only version. Tool was published shortly, before cut but version three was published"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "Someone yesterday when publication of draft you assumed. That's what you did. I know See And what these two together do well first, they close all the they closed all the open issues. I I did some edits. And said this could probably be closed and then hold had a look at it and closed the issue because we are only two on that specific who active on that if a good Repository. And Additional things that happened was that I also made some the editorial changes. So for example, to apps stuck very much it like well, this is something we could do and now that it's in the working group and it's maybe close to last call so it can be britain's like bangladesh. It's like, oh, new tech being shared. Still wrong? Still not the one I worked done. This morning. Something Something must have happened. Okay. So So all the openness on get closed and there were some edit editorial cleanup And also there was one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "thing that I added because we got the mail from Somebody christian page something. I'm good that remembering initials unfortunately, but not the rest of a name. And he proposed to have mind types for and whatnot and also for Okay. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Love. Found them at last. Yes. That's the slide I was talking about. So James closed to our open then edit the fixes, and then the middle one is say that media types are not a general type system. Yep. And Yeah. If it if it turns out that People want to ship lots of little documents that say this is that contain entity integer what then probably needed. Top little type for that, but before we advanced, we probably don't text. So And Yes. And then we came to the same conclusion maybe this document could be ready for w for working good last call. If I like that, it helps that actually somehow people read it. Yep. Okay. That's it yep. So Now the standard questions are who have read who has read the late latest trough, the o three version."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "That kind helps. Do we have a person on the queue? So Yes. I just want to say that I have letter too. Yep. Good. So Who thinks this is randy for work with plus called. Who thinks it's not? Okay. Yep. But that's that's so hard to tell. So that's that's enough about that. Let me go back to the slide. So Hap. Alex say has the comment. To make sure that that Yes. That's next. Yes. Make sure of that Yep. Yep. I think I think we should have them one well, my one after the other, but because we have... We have the draft that exercises it. So we can look at the draft to see if see if it's properly being accessed exercised. So this is martin induced. I'm supposed to say that name. So Anyway, I think they can go to last call at different times, I think for if you ever get there for A publication that probably should be published together because they have references yep."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "Okay. Hap. I And no. Let me see. What I promised. Should I give the stop of screen here. So Is it is it turned on? Okay. I turned the mic It was check... off and finished speaking because that was instruction and then Apparently Alex spoke without the Mail hike being turned on and then I turned it on again. So that's what was commented on in the chat. So Alex, if you want to if you a comment command again if you want wish my. Alex alex Mel, just to repeat my earlier comment. I suggested that the drop defining new media type. Top level media type. And at draft exercise the process should be reviewed in some proximity to each other. Don't necessarily have to be in working group last call at the same time, but it would be good if they just reviewed for consistency. Yep. Systems is good. And with that, I'd like to go move on to mister. Yeah. And you can you can grant you're supposed to be able to to do this this dictionary sharing."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "Right. Hang on I did have to the Pdf version of your slides. I hope this right version. I mean, am I able to excuse me. Opened up. Powerpoint version which I have on my pc Is that not... Is that not possible? I am not giving me the option of doing that. Mean I you have you should have a share screen button that I don't see the don't see a corresponding ground screen access. Can you try pressing the share screen button? Okay. Hang on Yeah. Let me try that one. Hang on. Okay. Requested Then I get screen. No. Okay. I'll use it be. You should be successful in Okay. I think I in the same future. Okay. Here we go. It lets me specify what to share. Okay. People able to see this. Yes. And For anything that is the same as you what you said london. I think you can keep slightly. Okay. Well, yes. I'm I'm gonna focus on just the key points which really have changed. So I'm gonna go to Slideshow show more and ask the question again. Are you to able to see this. K. Alright. What has changed since It of one one five, all the comments at T f one one five as well as those logged into the issue tracker, have been incorporated into version three of the draft, and that has been online since February eight, I have reviewed the latest version"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "of what martin uploaded that is version three of the of the top level that was uploaded at yesterday, I believe. And based on my on my reading the hap Version three draft does indeed satisfy by all of all the requirements that listed in the latest sections two point one to two point two and then and I should add It also is in compliance with the negative criteria mentioned in two point three. And a real quick update on what has happened in the impact world because this is a standard track out of sea the Hap phase one Codec has passed the City stage at an like one for one in January, it is now expected to move to the the d at impact one forty two, the other mp spec which is a of Hap data there's just device working draft was issued with mp one four one, why is it relevant here because it defines the I one subtype to to same guy. Active streams and the last but not least the Impact I immersive media see descriptions back to hap extensions that approved for implementation and they are part of the working draft. So now yeah. It's We still see a powerpoint point not your presentation. In enough presentation mode. Yeah. We received editing version of the powerpoint and Just a first slide on the main Okay. Done. That looks okay. Good. Oh, okay. Do Hang on. So you are seeing the editing version. Yes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "Okay. How about now? You see that. Okay. There seems to be some issue with me, then it is not showing you the presentation right. Okay. Well, in the interest of time, I'm gonna up keep going the day editing version did Okay. Do I have to repeat what I was saying? No. I think that's fine. Okay. Basically, I I... The... Everything which has been raised as an issue in the hap draft has been addressed in version three which has been uploaded on february eight. And all of the changes made to the top level draft, I have reviewed and I I can safely say that the hap draft is in compliance that what has been listed in two point one two point two and two point three. That's the main gist of what I'm same here, and the the remaining slides are point by point I point by point commentary on the on the on the criteria in section two point one, and it basically says that might had that the hap strap does satisfy all of those. I'll be more than happy to go through them point by point or if people have them or want to read them on their own we can do it that way. Whatever works. Any any preferences one way or or the other? I'm not hearing anything either way. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:06",
    "text": "Okay. I just saw the check that there is at least one preference for point by point. So I can quickly run through that. So the every new top level test type needs to be in a standard track out of sea and is indeed being intended. Status as far as evidence of interest from that from the community that has been listed from the... In terms of the and a number of emails that have been been received from Tencent santa America, the inter digital and hand razor, and all of those emails were sent to the media types list in the of twenty twenty two just before I of one one five, and I also had six sent to sent to it. Harold. The Pdf of all of those emails for easy access I think he should have it or it should already be on the website. The... I make considerations section of an out of sea should be defined, and that is indeed being handled in section four of the draft, moving along. All the all the subtype updates that varieties of formats of optics we would follow under of this top level type. So I think there is no scope for any any confusion in that regard. Moving to slide four, and the there are actually two types did did defined in this Ae Internet draft as soon as this Ids approved. The the registration of the actual types the defined the Id will be done reflected in the final Rf. Moving to Slide five,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "there are there are actually a number of hap subtype types actually use and in existence at the time of writing and all of these are documented in section two point five. A quick example the Ahab format, which is the this the standard active encoding in all devices. And Ios use game game peripheral. There is a proprietary extension to the format, which has got hap starting from Android eleven and the two proprietary or rather vendor specific for for format, And app and they are you used in the games and mobile hap advertising. In addition, there are a number of hap subtype types which are envision part of the bigger standards, which are in flight in the we are in various stages of self standardization. And if you have been documented in Section two point six, H, which is a hap phase one calling format, a, which is to interchange format I one, which is a streaming format and then moving on to the it one nine one eight dot one dot one. The. I think I think we don't have to read a all out. Yeah. And then the compliance with that required criteria. Section three does address security considerations and And then as far as the propose need need to be willing in immersion has specified two supply for the laser is also to go with their two two subtype types which is documented in the email of support that they sent back in in in November. And of course, once the want respective the standards are out to those those types will also be registered and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "will be taken into use. Moving along to Slide seven, that there are no undefined problems. Active types, of course, as far as the working group that that should be made the institute, we are in them the media manual working group. And all the data format subtype types in the hap Id. They do pertain to this. Sense of touch, and all of these the subtype types which are in the hap id, they do require a hap subsystem such as low level, Apis which is done needs specific have hardware capabilities such as one of what actually does. Moving to Slide eight. Think this was referring to to my my type payment is not properties of the subtype. I I I I talk about this time common parameters. I mean, they want anything like cross that equals or something like that. I don't think that's relevant for Hap, but it's Right. It's just the the fact that will hap sometimes refer to hap. Kind of irrelevant to that particular criteria. can mark that. I'm just as So I think you this isn't relevant. Okay. Alright. Enough. Okay. Moving out this section two point two that is more there in that section. Couple prototypes. They refer to the huge humans well this is the level type sense of touch and this very much the same way that the existing audio and video they pertaining the sensor. Getting and vision. Common restrictions to all types. Yes. They should also pertain to their of touch and terms of the multi part and the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "top level types. I just I I'm not gonna read through the entire text of the criteria except to say that files containing without any company audio and video will be directly to do that. Appropriate active device. So for it just has a matter of example if you have a body suit, or a chair, these can process on files. Moving on to slide nine. This is a new section, I believe in Martin's draft, and thankfully, from my reading, at least, I did it did not need to make any changes to my draft to say that it is in compliance, and I would just say that that there are no such instances where it's appointed to another the registration space, there are no nothing's whatsoever in the hap Id that would that... And so we are fine as far as that section is concerned. And the... This is The purpose of this is to not to map to other type system. So we are fine in that regard as well. Going to the last slide that I have with that top level type is not generating any such aliases and it is also... That does not have an x prefix fix. So that brings me to the end of what I had as a as a presentation, any questions. Thank you. Questions from the comments. Not seeing anyone on the queue. Okay. So stomach questions, who has read the draft? Oh, that's bad. We'll have to get some more reviews on it. Mean I have also that the draft. This this biggest draft has been online since the eighth of."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "February. Yep. So so Given the information you have on the draft, whether you have editor just listen to the presentations. Who thinks this is randy for working group last calls? Yeah. Who thinks it's not? Okay. We seem to have support for sending out sending out the last call on. Right. Thank you. Okay. We have successfully and navigated one more one more item of of the of the. Okay. Let me see if I can get back my Again the slide share. I'm trying to find my point again? Yeah. Those Hap. Next question is Suffix. Hi, Harold. Can you hear me? Yes. We hear you. Can I have the screen? I've got updated slides if you request did If you request request the this slide... Yep. Ground screen. Wait. Thank you. Come on. I we into this. Ground screen. I have to stop presenting first, I think. Yeah. There we go. That works. Thank you. Let's see. It takes some getting used to every time."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "Yeah. Okay. Can you see the full screen presentation? Yep. So the floor is yours Can you hear my audio? Yes. We hear you. Okay. Yeah. My... I shared full screen in my audio cut out. Okay. And you can see the full screen presentation. Yes? Yes. Okay. So this is meeting main suffix draft changes since the last went through and addressed all the issues except for one big show stop issue that we need to talk about today. We were ready to go to last call before I had a discussion with one of the reviewers and that will will cover why I don't think it's ready for last call just yet. Published a new dash three version mainly with just more explanatory text There were two new reviews that came in Nothing much changed in the general strategy for how we treat suffix the algorithm from the last. The newest you know, thing that happened is we think we have found a better algorithm for processing media suffix, and that's primarily what we need to kind of talk about today. The the problem with the current algorithm is that we made an attempt to reverse engineer what should happen when you see multiple plus signs and a media type?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "Like, how should you treat it? How should a processing pipeline handle it. And we did that by looking at the entire I registry And then the entire suffix is registry in trying to determine a set of rules that would work for everything. And that led to kind of a weird I don't wanna say weird, but it wasn't an entirely straightforward way to reason about it based on general knowledge that people have about the media types register right. In fact, most of... A number of the reviewers end implement that we've discussed this with had no idea that the suffix this registry existed these are people with like fifteen, twenty plus years of experience existence of the Suffix as registry was it surprise to them. So the the new proposed solution is to kind of ignore the exceptions that we see in the media types table in the In registry and then the Suffix registry and try kind of build an algorithm from from principles. The outcome really isn't changed that much. So here here's the... Just to summarize the difference between the old algorithm, and the proposed new algorithm. On the left here, is what we currently have for the algorithm So I'm using the the verifiable Credential plus L d plus Json, media type proposed media type has two plus signs in it. The current algorithm basically says if you are processing this media type try to process the whole thing by itself. And if you don't know how to process the whole thing by itself, but you do know about media type suffix, then chop everything to the left of the First plus sign off."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "And look it up in the media types registry and follow the rules there for processing the media type. End if it's got you know, more than one plus in it, and you don't know how to handle that, shop off one of the plus bits and then go to the media trip registry. Sorry, The the suffix is registry look up the suffix and process it according to the rules That's kind of what we have today. The the problem with that is that you end up bounce between the media types table and the suffix is registry in the registry is a bit hard to navigate. We suggesting the new way of doing this, is to just use the media types table. Don't use the suffix registry. So you get this whole media type in, you see if you can process it. If you can't process it, you chop off the subtype up to the first plus you see if you know how to process that media type, if you don't know how to process that media type you chop off the the next chunk up to the plus you look at that media type and you try to process it. That works for most of the media types if not well, nearly all of the media types in the registry except for things like image, S g plus xml. Right? Because when you do that sign a shopping activity for Image v g xml. You end up with image slash x registered. Right. So which does not have a So there's a way that we could under execute. Sorry? So all this to say is that there there's a way... We could add in exceptional cases we could add a new media type in the media types table, to the algorithm I just need some guidance from the reviewers the group on exactly what to do here. Another outcome of the discussion today could be we don't think this is a problem, use the current algorithm."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:04",
    "text": "So that's it. Who's reviewed the draft Harold Martin yvonne Graham Mark Roberto to Poly, Worries he's new ted's reviews new. Are we ready to go to last call yet? I'm... Ted is convinced me that we're not ready quite yet. We need to address this one last issue. It's not really a huge change to the specification but it is a change. I guess, the question is, you know, could we make this change and make a call to go to last call over the mailing list. Once we're in last call, we probably need review by the W three c working group that are depending on the suffix draft, which is the verifiable credentials working group that did work group in the. Working group That's it for the presentation. I'll jump back to slide here for the main topic of discussion. K. So now we have a martin not in first in the queue. Yeah. Okay. My name is martin induced. First, I was listed on having the document I have had an earlier version, but I think not the latest version. Second point, With this, Isn't it wouldn't it be just Yeah. Possible for Let me just say if it's Plus six and out, then go look to application slash. Is that what would be on the left side now. Or is that an exception, you want that to do be just an exception for that specific case"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "It's an extension to the specific case. They think it's about Yeah. Sorry. We we have multiple options. We can either make exception for a specific case we can say a general thing, like, if you're in the image top level type switch to application and see if you find a matching media type. Like, this was the only... This is really the only exception I could find. That doesn't work for the rule set on the right. Is jackson. Sorry. Okay. Thanks for the explanation. I think it A very good idea. And thanks for all the work to check all the x samples but I think it's a very bad idea to say, okay, We found only one Example that doesn't work and until we make an exception for that. And I I think we should just for each Suffix which we can just say how it would it should be treated if if nothing more specific can be done. Yeah. Is that oh is that too much? It might be too... Like, it well it will... This is the input that that I need. So there three options, I think we probably discuss on the mailing list. I I think oh each one of them has benefits and drawbacks Okay. So I think we can go to the next execute then Grand sample. Brent. Speaking as the chair of the Vc working group and the did working group who are relying on this. While I do support the idea of the suffix, and I like... I've read the draft I I I don't feel it's ready for last call. I mean, primarily due to this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "what what do we do about this situation? I think it needs to be resolved before it goes to last call. And I look forward to that conversation because We just this gotta be worked out. Alex alex my God. So what's the problem with the current text? I can I didn't quite here it's not as clean as the proposal on the right? The current text It's just to take cable look ups. It doesn't matter. Sure. Just... Yeah. I mean, that's one argument. The Ted's ted's arguing pretty strongly that that, you know, most developers don't know about the Suffix table and the table look up there. Strange and it would be cleaner just to use the algorithm on the right, which which does you know, result in. The same is... Yeah. The the algorithm the right makes assumptions that every suffix will have a specific subtype with the same name as a suffix. Which is Okay. To date, that's true. Maybe it's too... It's through so far, but that's just by accident. Right? We can make this assumption, but It's kind of a bit h Okay. Thank you for the the input Mark. Yeah, Mark nottingham him. Martin's comment. I think I agreed with and I think he made me realize that these are both, you know, they both will require you to define handling for suffix in Suffix combinations. And so really, it's intact sugar. And Alex lexi comment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "made me think that that synthetic sugar is probably leaving in that you think you know what it means in it doesn't. So I actually am I'm leaning to not making this change. I think you wanna make this change, you would need to Well, either way, you need to define handling for for for, you know, each Suffix. The only thing that I was thinking before earlier was you know, in your exception down there, maybe the the rule that you need to introduce is is that you only do this of trimming when there are multiple suffix is and you don't trim the last suffix. Because then you are just adding a new requirement. Logical problem here, I think is is that you're retrofit a new requirement onto existing suffix and existing handling. And that's something that needs to be done very carefully. So You know, maybe one way out of this is to kind of not do that and only have these kinds of this kind of trimming when there are multiple is still on on the media type. Yeah. That's a great idea. Thank you, Mark. That's a new new option. Okay. So I'm I'm hearing Well, they're more people in the queue. Oh wait. Yeah. So I don't bother with switching mics, but speaking as a participant. I think both of these can be solved by by by actually registering this the things that are not in the table at the moment. Like, we could hit image xml just to catch the exception case. But this is not the only issue. Yeah. I also raised an Essay about the about fragment identifier. If we have application slash Bc c plus l station plus, g and and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "an object identify with the fragment identifier on. Look, What's the rule for it? And that led me to the sad experience of trying to read the suffix registry. Mh. I mean, if you haven't read the suffix registry of should, because Because there are some there that Well, for instance the suffix rules that the identifier rule for t says that If there is a G build then follow the G rule, if there isn't that approved. And then follow. It's... Was obviously an editing mistake. But that's what it can says. So I kinda like the approach on the right because it dealing with this registry that I he think it's in a bad states, but we could fix that. Okay. That's fine. Little patricia Yeah. And the follow up on that Harold, we... There's a new section in the suffix draft that generalize that column that you're talking about because the column you're talking about fragment identifier column has been copied and paced it over and over and over again. It's the same tech with minor modifications. So we really should get rid of that column in just point two one place which is in the suffix draft today. So plus one on the the fragment identifier comments you made. I'm trying to trying to fix that. Both in the spec and the the the Registry. The the other question I had for the group is hit can we do that? Can we clean up the registry? There's a bunch of text in there and we would have to make it decision to clean the text up Like I said, it is copied and pasted text. And we can redirect it to a section spec. I just don't know if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "we had the power to do that. As a working group. We do have a truck item. On the device registration procedure. So I think it could be stretched to cover that. Okay. Martin. Yes. I I think if we think the this is about suffix. Yeah. And if we think that the urgency for the suffix is needs fixing and I agree it needs fixing, then we should do the right thing here and say you have to fix it. Yeah. Yep. So drawing conclusion from the discussion. I think we can say safely that Version three is the the last published version is not ready for regular last call. We have items to discuss on lists. Any other conclusions list should draw about Suffix? The cleanup of the registry is that something we we definitely wanna do. I mean, I'm very much in favor of cleaning up the story. I see Alex. Alex alex Man. Yeah, I would like to do that. But it doesn't have to be your document. Okay. Well yeah. So it's basically, it doesn't have to be your sole responsibility to claim that you know that other people can help So plus wanna thank you. And as an immediate type of your, I would like to clean it. K. Okay. That's the again the point for suffix. Martin comments. Yeah. One question is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "Why did these things that, for example, Harold mentioned strange texts that were just copied Why did they get in the in the first place? Was the you who was sleeping on that issue or just overlooked it or we should try to figure out not to blame anybody, but to make sure that it works a bit better in the future. Yet it responded that. The suffix is registry unfortunately has been used as a place to write norma of texts in columns that were meant to really just point to specifications So the fragment identifier is a good example of that and in like, there's a security considerations column where people wrote security considerations in the registry instead of its specifications, Right? And so it's stuff like that that the the worst of that is in the fragment portion of the registry, but there also some questionable usages of the security considerations. Column in the registry as well. You know, it's it's up to the group... The problem is is that If we remove that text from the registry, it doesn't exist anywhere else. Like it doesn't exist in the specs. So that may be another thing that we want to look at if we're committing to cleaning up the registry. Martin you want to queue again? Or is it just left lower? Left over. Okay. We have more work to do. We now have No my plan. Ten minutes left in a in a meeting. And I again, that said that to so that we had the last slot for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "for discussing and changes to procedures, which I think the suffix is a good example of stuff that we are charter to do. So Mark, do you want to say anything about that? You thinking there? Yeah. So there were two threads in that discussion. And one was regarding the actual mechanism that you know, thanks for registration. We talked about using Github. And and, know versus the form that currently exists in the processes. Think the place we had with that was that it's interesting because using to make it how gives you the advantage that you you have evidence of the processing you have, you know, a public record. Whereas when you fill out the current form, it's a bit of a black box but that doesn't necessarily required any changes to the documents were not before to to to make changes there? It's a recommendation deal it to actually be handled by the by the experts. Yeah. Excuse me. So the the more interesting part of the discussion then in the other thread is something that we discussed in London, I believe, which is we we kinda came out of that meeting with the notion that we wanted to open up registration in the standards tree more, and we wanted to open it up to specially open source. And I went away and thought about that and started to write about it and came to place where I I wasn't terribly happy with it. Because open source isn't really the property we're looking for. You know, often an open source project is either very small in a ep or even if it's big, it could be effectively proprietary. There's no interoperability with other things. It's just happens to be open source. What we're really looking for is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "shared formats interrupt formats that have some of the properties of things we usually expect from standards but having gone through a formal process. And so what I proposed on list believe in February is that we we instruct the the... What are you what are you guys called? Media type reviewers. Thank you. That they are allowed to they have discretion. To allow things into the standards tree based on a number of criteria, which I want go into in detail, but it's things that you, you know, you look you know, good documentation and and open projects and robust community and some at of deployment. Just to to give them the ability to discern or, you know, to to avoid abuse of this license that they have So that people with tiny little projects can't come up and squad on on a name or or something like that. And and that seemed to go over pretty well on the list. I think the response was pretty good to that. So from a work group perspective, I think the next up is to continue that discussion figure out. Maybe we need to consensus this call in terms of his that we wanna take the standards train in and then figure out how it gets incorporated into the right document. With and work on the detail. Yep. So the instructions for the reviewers are. Supposed to come either from documents. Defining a registry or from the is street, I believe. So Right. And and what I did... I I haven't kept up to speed on what documents this group is revising versus publishing wholesale new. It could be a new document it could be a revision of current document. Yeah. Whatever whatever makes sense. That's that's details. So all the documents we have so far, our new documents. We haven't started opening up. Documents yet. So either could make sense. I think we we could probably publish was a quite compact document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "that would update the current. Rf establish in the? Yep. Yeah. Alex. I suggest we'll start with just a little updating doc And if you realize that There is so much inter relation with the original one than we can discuss, basically. Makes sense. So, yeah. Let's try not reopen on the the big document done by ned and not. Until we have to Yeah. Then. As a practical path forward then I could Draft the document. And then circulate it. And then if if it looks good we could do a call for an option that serves the consent this call to launch on the work I suppose. That sounds appropriate to me. I think you're free to use the already have created for sorry the document that you want? I have Martin Manor and John. A I'm a peak speakers q. Yes. I think I I also remember the Let's subscribe here the Mark sent and either I apply positively or I can say that now that I found this list of criteria really good. I mean, each of them need some kinda action... In actual use, it needs some careful evaluation, but I think list is really good. One thing that my my document I think update some of the registration stuff And it might turn out that I do an update mark's document an update for same document. So maybe at some point, we have to think whether that's what we want to do whether we throw these two together. So at the moment, time."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "Mine is is much more advanced than Let's that's not the create dependencies before we have to. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Mana. Yeah. I wanted to ask about it that's sub part of what you mentioned and Mark that had to do with using github to do registrations and processing. I'm very much in favor of of doing something like that is that a part of the proposal? Or were you mentioning that in passing? Mentioning in passing, mostly because we we've talked about this other than years. And it turns out, you really don't need to put anything in the documents to do that it just needs the the experts and and the folks who responsible for the registry to want to do it. So Yep. Yeah. Great. Thanks. The to provide them put on that, we are starting to manage register street well. Quote unquote regis like that, at W three that did registry in the verifiable credentials example. Three and it's working out really nicely. It's really easy to track like who requested what what the reviewers on the addition is and that sort of thing. So plus one two. Using source control system with comments to manage that. Versus a mailing list. Thanks. John? Queue. I'm feeling some discomfort in my already uncomfortable position. Is the as the call is is the remaining c author of the of sixty eight thirty eight tools. Even basically following this and the only surviving c author of of twenty forty eight. D one of the principles there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "was to create considerable pushback against innovation. Think marcus document top level types has that about right, but I wanna be very careful in in process of making this easier or better documented we don't sight of the principle that fewer media types are better. And we don't lose sight completely the principle that reason why there are parameters owners out there at the right edge is to deal with some of these micro details, rather having those become part of the types in the in the conversation letters us to where we are, those things are considered very important principles, and I A little afraid is these things evolve and get twitch to take loss by x. I don't believe to getting lost long does get lost by accident. I'd like to respond to that. John, it's Mark. I I I I hear you and I agree with you. The intent here is not to open up and and have a flood of new media airport situations or even to lower the quality boards to engage with communities that don't really know how to navigate the F. Or or other stand processes even. And and to ideally, I would like to see this as a two way thing where they they bring things to us register more easily, but also we're in that process we can give a little more help in in in improving the quality of their registration. We we we did dealing out another context, the idea of making it more efficient and more obvious and better supported. To to put a tutorial quality tutorial or quality guide function in the middle registration loops to deal with exactly that problem rather than making the loops. Both more complicated and easier for stuff to get through because people were unfamiliar process. I could think recently because of two other contexts"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "perhaps in the the registration process, we need to appoint two functions one of which is that guy could foot for the outsider function. And the others which is in explicit. Devil's advocate charge push packages. But those are just sort wild yes. Okay. Thanks for the Mark has taken action items. Out time we have two last calls to Right? Will think they will run from from After the Has ended and for two weeks, and Well, take it from there. Thank you for coming. Meeting. You. Let me see easter. Advantage doing they github type things been asking hannah for a long time. For some way to have a human. The reviewers can get access to. That's why we get some the other. Yeah. Another it's not so much that it's just large backlog. Very small. Turning turn crank. Yeah terms of process, you know,"
  }
]
