[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:03",
    "text": "I will tell you when you're done. Okay. I will make sure that that doesn't happen. I did like this break. The Yeah. This is happening. Services our success. What? No. There was no light. Okay? Okay. I think we are well, we should be ready to start. So welcome to the spice buff. I invited, but he couldn't come. So I have Paul Waters, our security AD here. Thank you, Paul, for helping me out. So a few words at the beginning. So although we are on the second day already, and you've seen these, templates a couple of times already, the note well the whole process here is governed by various different policies and you see the links included on the slide deck from copyright to patents and code of conducts and and the standards process and so on and so on. So, please make sure that you are familiar with the process and 50 documents. Likewise, there's the note well for virtual, meetings or for mode participation, Be gentle."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "To each other. And I think we've been very civilized so far in the in the discussions in the on the list and the conference call. So I'm I'm not, not worried, but, keep that in mind. The session is recorded. And please scan the QR code before you go to the microphone and also scan it even if you don't go to the microphone because we need to see on how many, people participated And I'm also, suggesting that you for a later discussion of the charter text, you actually download the slides. I've copied in the relevant parts with a proper font size, into the slide deck so that we have an informed debate unless you memorize the And that's only one text. So I'm made it very convenient for you. So this is the second path of Spice, we had one profit at the Prague IETF meeting which in my opinion was quite successful. We had, good discussions that was I was doing it to get a performance. It was, feedback, great support, lots of participants, Many people who were who said that he would be willing to review documents to contribute to documents however, the charter tax wasn't ready, so there was some uncertainty about the exact scope of the work and what some of the proposed milestones actually mean And, we've spent The time after the after IDF 118, this I this IETF meeting with discussions and fine tuning of the charter decks, And I think that made good progress. We had weekly conference calls We have experts keeping the view on various different technologies,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "MDOC OS and various other working groups and luckily also, we have people contributing IETF drafts that provide some at at least I would say a good idea about what the potential deliveries, deliveries could look like. I've also linked the charter text, can, of course, find them on a mailing list and if you search for the for the booking for data tracker, page as well. Good. So before I jump into the agenda for today's meeting, Paul, did I forgot something, If anything okay. Yaron is the, scribe. Thank you. Iran I've Well, we've decided that it would be a good idea to briefly summarize the proposed work items a very high level I asked, Hank Ori Mike print and forgot one person. Roy. Sorry, Roy. To speak about those items, in case you don't remember, like, exactly anymore what was discussed on the list. It's just a refresher. It's not a replacement for actually reading the documents which we have in the meanwhile. And then I would like that's, hopefully short the section And then I would like to go to the charter text discussion to complete that off. We had, discussions, I was hoping that we would be able to finish The discussions and agree on the charter before the meeting. Unfortunately, that didn't quite happen. So I'm hoping that we could do that quickly today, but, we essentially have the whole meeting time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "to to do that. And I would like to, as as a goal for this meeting, walk out of the room with an agreement on the charter text and, be done with sort of this initial, setup phase. Okay. Good. So into the summary part. Hank, you start with architecture. Hello, everybody. Luckily, this is a Tuesday? Is it Tuesday? Is it Tuesday? And, So, most people are still awake Okay. So this, title slide, I have 5 minutes. So this title slide called, architecture. There is no actual architectural documents today, but we have to viable inputs to this as a transparency token. Document from Ori, which is basically focusing on principles and workflows and, and, and all the, all these items and formats and how they work together. And I think it's, it's a good list of the items we can use to create a good architecture. I think it's, it's something we can cherry pick from, and I don't think all of it will go into an architecture document. But I think that is very variable to read. Life, augmented, that basically by having, some actors actually a normative language around them, and and and says how to profile this into things that work in reality. So so these two documents are our basis for the upcoming architecture document on the right side see our edoc it's our our ASHA diagram of contents. Not to be confused with MDAC. And the, there should be status checks at the the button. Yeah. So the issue is on the verifier is also two things, but I think it was cut off somehow. These are roads The things between them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "a summary of a problem statement. Be inherited. We do not invent all that. What we are doing here at the idea for trying or want to do here at the idea from the spice working group, is to provide simple base, scale of a base, again, to profile with normative language, procedures, to present identity documents about not only people, but also about machines, about systems, about relationships, and how to derive information from that. And that is very important to highlight with IETF existing building blocks. And that's a former part of livestock human, of course, and also somehow stories, we are using web tokens for that as a basis. That's that's the plan. And I think the architecture will give you, good overview how this story is told. I think, that is something we have to write yet. And I think that is an excellent start. So whatever this edoc now tells you here. Is not written in stone. Again, we inherited that if we find something like a 4th role. So for example, that is useful in other environments we can make. There's a pyramid Oh, it's, is this a permanent? No, it's either Tetra or whatever. And so, basically We are not set in stone with this process. And it's kick starting. A, hopeful, very stable document will take us for about a decade to do viable credential production, prevention, and the corresponding flows. Basically, that's it. Could yeah. And return points. Thanks, Feng. Yep. For some of you who followed the discussions on the mailing list. This triangle was kind of the terminology around it was a contentious point on how you define issue, verify and holder But at least the triangle was always there. Richard. Okay. Yeah. So thanks. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "this, I'll this is my new favorite ASCII art. Thank you. So, yeah, clearly that the issue or holder verified model makes makes sense. This group doing work on credentials makes sense, I think. Probably on the proof side as well, the thing I was gonna just highlight is that I think we are already seeing desires to pull these credentials into other protocol that have presentation semantics like we had a presentation on TLS VCs, There's a document in MLS, about VCs there. So the the proof bits might get mixed in with some other protocols, but, obviously, you know, having some guidance about Yeah. Maybe some some proof building blocks that could get used in building those and things like that. Guidance just that this one, this group's not gonna own all the proof stuff. Exactly. Exactly. Owning something takes, is a duty comes with a lot of responsibility And we, the IETF. So so we try to be precise minimal criscriscriscriscriscris here. That is a definite design goal. No. Okay. Okay. Perfect. On the phone. Hi, Brent Sundell. I was asked to talk about some of the use cases that were hoping to enable with the output of the spice working group one of them is a physical supply chain tracking. Currently in the physical supply chain information is passed via paper documents at bestascanned pdf it's really challenging to track end to end exactly where things came from. With any sort of verifiability or provenance attached We need the ability to do regulatory data capture. So when something shows up in the United States,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "the importer can have confidence that it wasn't produced with slave labor or that it was produced, by you know, factories that were in places that don't use children. And it's it's challenging to maintain that information across the entire supply chain. The inspection information, the permits, and the compliance certificates, All of these could exist as digital credentials. That get passed along and that would be incredibly valuable. It would increase just efficiency. The number of shipments that are halted at a border while we wake to figure out whether or not maybe it's okay to bring it in. Is, is a very real problem that we're trying to solve and Spice would, take us a long way toward getting there. Thank you Right. Yes. Roy Williams. The the physical supply chain and the software supply chain are running into similar sort of issues of scale, for physical splletching. It's down to factories that have identities, not necessary corporations, and you have to walk the chain backwards. We're in a a case where we're having the inferred data at the moment. To understand supply chains, and that's not a sustainable thing in the long term. The way to get out of that is gonna be Digital sync and choose the documents at this level. It's not people. It's not corporate officers, its companies or factories that we need need to do this. That's why we kinda need to get into this space. At scale, we think we're gonna end up having to use notarization systems such as Skit, and others,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "which gets us into cozy. And so part of this is a push for CWT and cozy support in general over and above what classifications being pushed as Josie and W. T. Thanks, Mike Paroc here. The Yeah. The this section of the use case actually started around provenance of data. And part of that is because when we're dealing with supply chain stuff, in practice what we see is a ton of interesting things being gathered from all over the place. And I and I think this is a section of the use case while what's in the use case doc is valid. There's kind of the secondary aspect that we're seeing emerge, particularly with, you know, real world regulatory cases. Where we need to go show how and when data was collected and in what order. Now, part of that is covered by things like Skit. How can I go dropped stuff on and notarized that this message was picked up by a system somewhere web crawler found some information or, common case where seeing now is someone provided a bunch of evidentiary documents? And we need to witness those so that they can then be turned over to a legal team. The other aspect of that though is what credential formats do we use how do we pass those around? Right? And that's what this group I think could address here. It's a it's a critical part. Thank you, Mike ZIP CWT Yep. My my I'm gonna stay up here and then pull Ori up right behind me. SDCWT popped up because JSON might be a little heavy for some of the data and volumes we're dealing with, on a is, a prac problem we've run into in the real world. Seaboard is just a lot more practical"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "for the kind of data we're dealing with and the volumes of data we're dealing with over the wire. We're not doing anything new here. It's not super fancy. It's basically saying need a mechanism to sign the hashes so you can go through and verify that and close some data so that, you can expose only the information that someone is required to see or is allowed to see based on their permissions and to handle privacy concerns, without disclosing anything else, but still know that the overall data has not tampered with. Very common use case, very much modeled off of MDOC and some other things are out there. But addressing some of the learnings we've had from SD JWT from MDOC etcetera in practice. Header from the disclosure side that came in as the 2 side. Of this draft. The other side is that in practice with things like Skid and other things, we do need countersignatures on this data as well. So it's not enough just maybe say, Hey, I'm disclosing this piece of information from an inspection permit by a national plant protection organization everyone went through customs here, didn't realize that was going on in the background. That's a real world thing that happens every you check that box and say, I didn't go to a farm. There's a piece of data. Or if you did, there's another piece of data attached to that. The results of that information might get disclosed not the details of it. And that's an important thing from a privacy aspect Ori, would you like to comment at all on any of this? Hi. Rory Steele. So, as Mike mentioned, this sort of approach to selective disclosure credentials is is not, you know, fundamentally new concept. So, the ISO MDOC format also has a selective disclosure capability. It looks sort of similar to the OAuth SD Jot format and the OAuth SD JWT format. What's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "I think if, like, Mike mentioned, you know, important for for cozy is that in those other credential formats, we have a lot of, you know, sort of binary text and coding issues. And so for data at scale, cozy can give us a much smaller message sizes It's gonna be able to handle interesting new kinds of data that aren't necessarily just text formats, and what I like about the examples, especially on the hand side of the screen here showing counter signatures and receipts These credentials with these privacy capabilities can interface into other IETF systems that already have additional value and privacy and confidentiality application. So you know, one of the applications for transparency services is to be able to have an service provider, take responsibility for witnessing some set of evidence and then be a new sort of trust point for certifying that information moving forward. And counter signatures can give you a similar, type system, skit receipts can help with that, but the layering between these two formats they can be combined to give some really, interesting properties in terms of trading off, the information, that's retained in a transparency log information that a, holder of a credential might need to present in order to proceed through some software system. Or, you know, physical checkpoint that's far. Receiving presentations. And I wanna come back to something that Richard said in terms of the presentation side of this, One of the things we've seen with SD Jot is is that the presentation format can be a tricky thing to think about in terms of protocols. Because of the way the tokens are con constructed you you could have scenarios that adding a receipt, especially the bottom example here, could be, maybe not not necessarily exactly what you're thinking because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "the undistclosures are currently in the unprotected header there. And the receipt is for the information that the transparency service witnessed So by adding this receipt, we can actually get an additional layer of integrity on which specific claims were disclosed. And it the way that that gets implemented, it can be, very challenging. You know, within Skit, we've had a lot of conversations around around do you support multiple receipts What does that mean? Are these sort of a chain of trust statements, or are they parallel trust statements So these, cozy constructions, have a lot of utility and, you know, they're they're kind of going above and beyond the built in parallel signatures or single signatures that Cozy supports today. And I'm happy, you know, I've I've done of a sort preliminary implementation in in cozy and seabor based on the SD Jot work. And one of the things I really liked about it was not having to sort of alter the media type, but I'm able to make use of the cozy unprotected header. To pass the, disclosures So it's it's been a really fun and fairly forward to implement it, but, I'm happy to answer any questions might have around the differences between this, particular credential format and some of the other credential formats you might be aware And if there are no questions, I'm happy to Go back to my seat. No. No. No. No. No. Recovering this one as well. Alright. Sure. You don't wanna ask me questions about SDCW 2? So, Yeah. To the mic, Well, which which question would you like to answer? So so, Mike Parocque here. I would like to note that Jose gives us an interesting property that works"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "very well for the kinds of data that we're dealing with because we have a situation where large aspects of the regulatory supply chain are being digitized. However, there's still huge amounts of this legacy data that is not gonna go away overnight. And so we need this ability to have detached signatures cleanly. And possibly even embedded in things of PDF working with things like C2PA and some of the other initiatives that are out there. And so that real world bridging between things like doc files and you know, on the, MS word side, as well as PDFs and things like that. That's a reality that we deal with day to day. And we need a good standardized set of best practices for how to handle those situations and cozay is very well suited to that, SD CWT as well suited to that use case as well. Yeah. Just one comment since you mentioned detached signatures and signing you know, selective disclosure over potentially, you know, arbitrary content types, One of the things that's interesting and exciting about cozy is we can put CWT claims in a header can do the same kind of, selective disclosure we see in OAuth Jot. But paired with a secure, securing an entire file, either by value or by reference. And so like, like, Mike was saying, you know, in terms of revealing specific claims of out an artifact or, arbitrary media type some of the capabilities that Cozy has for that are exciting to explore for supply chain applications. Richard. Yeah. So so as you mentioned, we've got the SD JOT and SD JOT VC stuff already started in OAuth. We're now talking about SDCwg and presumably SDC CWTBC. Coming here, What how do you think those relates? Are they roughly equivalent coatings of the same thing. And if so, how do we keep those in sync? That's a great question. So you know, Hosey and Cozy are are there they share a lot of, claims in registries and to most implementers, they may look look really, really similar. And in some places, they really are. And in other places,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:04",
    "text": "there's significant differences between them. Sometimes those differences have really important security and implications. So when we think about, porting a design that worked well, in Hosey to Cozy. We have to be cautious about how we do that. Sometimes the layering binding and encrypt can can end up being different. The supported encryption algorithms can be different. So we have to be cautious about that. And like I mentioned, in in OAuth, land, you know, we have Jason Webb Tokens, they're always expressed in a compact format. In in in cozy and seabor, we we have basically bytes and, that and we have the unprotected header. And so you can To the extent that it's possible, you can align these but, but there are gonna be differences in in the design, you should lean into the capabilities and sort of aesthetics and developer conventions that have developed in cozy. And make sure that the solution is gonna be you know, secure, align with developer expectations, and make use of, like, the advancements are just, you know, unique differences between the two formats. While also keeping them kind of conceptually aligned, hopefully making it easy for a developer who's built a system in 1, to, upgrade to the other. If they choose work, maybe go the other direction for some reason. Interesting. Justin Richard. So, corollary to that is their, fire or appetite or intent to pull the, Jose flavored versions of especially VC related artifacts, into this group should it form. So I'll I'll answer part of that, and then I'll kick part of it to to harness like, in in the discussions as as Spice was was sort of forming. We, we talked a lot with the authors of digital credential work within the OAuth Working Group. And we've, I mentioned OAuth, SDJWT. It's kind of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "generic envelope format for selective disclosure, and then there's a profile of it called OAuth, s t JWTVC. Which is the credential format itself. It's my understanding that, you know, at this time, the OAuth group is advancing those documents. They're making great progress. There's good open lines of communication between, you know, folks who are participating in Spice and Skit and OAuth. There's actually a good amount of overlap between folks there. So I don't, it's my understanding at the time at this on, there's no plans to move anything. And, in fact, there's no group to move anything, too, because we are not we're not a working group. This is a buff. Past you have know, completely right. We discussed this at the last meeting. Obviously, it was a topic that came up, We are stick the debated this in OS, that was the conclusion. Back then, of course, future is always unpredictable. We just see where things go. But but So far, everyone is happy, and we'll see how this evolves over time. Yeah. So I'll I'll thank Justin for making more explicit. The subtext of my earlier which is that I I think it would probably assuming we form a working group here, that is looking at credential stuff. I think it would be good to have the credential stuff we have going on in relatively the same location. So I think pulling the SDJOT and or SDJOPEC stuff. Over here into a spice thing alongside the cozay versions would be a good idea. For audit. Be in the future. Let me ask a question before you we switch over to the next slide, we use a lot of acronyms. And in at the Buff in Brock, some of you expressed concerns or had questions about the details on what some of the items meant. And now we obviously went completely deep into it. We have documents explaining it. You could actually look at the so so to speak at the CDDL level. I did I, raise your hand if you are familiar if they"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "chase on web token. Oh, okay. Yep. You are correct. Just just a sense, I you. Well, Hannes is doing that. I'll expand on my previous point a bit and note that it's not just the raw credential formats that are at issue here. There's also things like presenting issuer metadata, that are not directly tied in the Jose, Jose, but like, should be consistent across the 2. Yep. Totally. Yext. Next slide. A whole lot of work. You know, actually, I wanted to comment to that I'm a little bit resistant. This is Roy Williams, moving them all together because there's a lot of focus on they might There's a lot of focus on individual identity discussions, and there's whimsy for flows and so forth. We would lose focus on some of these core scenarios if we put them all together. And So I'm a little resistive of saying, hey, they all belong in one group. I think they should work tightly together, but I'm a little cautious about saying, hey, they fold them all together. Yeah. I just to respond to that, you know, quickly. Like, I think, the intention here is to to make sure that the envelope formats that could be consistently profiled for a use case are influencing each other and the security considerations that are relevant to 1 are being considered by the others, think from a use cases perspective, if we're talking about identity credential use cases in a, a work workload, cloud workload environment or physical hardware, environment, or personal credentials from your phone environment, Each of those use cases are different and they might, invite distinct profiling, and yet the envelope formats that Spice could develop could be broadly applicable to all of those use cases or at least That'll be my help. Thanks."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "Yeah. We have a around fifty people. So I would say like, this room is is a hardcore, CWT group, because it's now it's a, a previously, we had the, JSON Webtoken question. Now we have a the the sort of the lightweight version of it, the cboe Webbdokin, Just to get a sense so we're not talking about thinks that nobody hasn't clue about. It looks pretty good as well. Okay. So but let's continue with the queue. Who's next to, Hank. Yeah. So, just just, talking about, where documents typically should go. In the end, where the experts are, that's fine. You said communication standards are there great. I'm a CDDL addict. And, as soon as I start to write something that support both formats. Where they are general and then have, like, select the the extension points where the other things stick in I wouldn't know where to go. Right? Because it's it's both. So now I don't but let's arrive at that point. And then see. Martin. It seems to me like there's, pre. Significant diversity, Oh, who am I? Martin Thompson. Nice. Diversity of use cases, these things and and sort of very broad applicability. That suggests to me that we can talk about use cases here. We can talk about use cases in talk about use cases in in in number of different groups, whimsy, skit,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "Have I listed all of them yet? Probably not. But be there's just gonna 1 or 2 formats be developed out this one. It suggests there's, a separate working group from all of those that of that is responsible for maintaining these formats. Just an idea. I'm not sure I fully, Let me let me grab that. I think I'm I'm having the same thought. Other Martin Thompson. The American flavor. So and I I, in my my course mind, think of this like think of VCs roughly as certificates and says, like, they're binding identity gets to to key is an under signature. It's like, We know we all know that certificates show up in a bazillion different use cases. With different flavors. But there's still a pretty common core format. That that it was defined in one place, and there's a lot of library support Now we've we've by accident of history ended up with 2 formats here. But, like, 2 is only 1 better than 1, and we can still kind of have that 4 set of formats that accommodates a bunch of use cases that we discuss in whimsy or wherever. But, like, let's let's do the common format you know, and do the the 2 common formats that we've locked into, in one place. Well, the good thing is we have the formats already. Yeah. At least to a large extent, what we don't have, which is, but I'm going to show What this slide, for example, shows is we have, some of the privacy additions with Oh, can you Yeah. To be clear, right, that's the format. I mean, like, s d jot SDsdj/cwt. And Yeah. dash VBC attached to those. So, like, I think those are the primitive to be defined you know, as as core building blocks that can then get applied to various supply chain or workload or, yeah, user identity is what Right. Right. Okay. So So the poll, for me, concluded that this is a a group that is very familiar with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "those 2 technologies. So I I feel very comfortable Who do we have Justin. Justin Richard. So I think one of the things that this group needs to answer as it's forming is whether it wants to be a vertically focused group like, whimsy, where we're not specifically looking at specific technologies, but a specific set of problems in a very specific problem space or skip. Which is looking at a very specific kind of problem space. Or if it wants to be a more horizontally focused group where we're looking at the containers and protocols, knowing that there are lots of different use cases, some of which will be sort of core driving use cases. But with the idea that what the thing that we're building we could use across a a bunch of different things. Every time that I have read the Spice Charter and the discussions around it, I get the impression it should be the ladder. It should be a sort of wider reaching group. So you know, kind of what Richard was saying and that This is where the formats should be. And if the use case is driving those formats, get discussed in all of these other places. That's awesome. Bring those discussions also here but don't make everybody develop their own VC container weird thing for their vertical and to me, ultimately, that would be the value of spice. Is to have that type of container that could be reused across a lot of different things. That's what I would like to see out of this group. Well, a group currently, the charter, at least what the people on agreed is a little bit different, because like we have specific milestones, And specific"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "we have use cases, and they point as we as orient the others, presented earlier, they focus on like, here, the SDCWD doesn't it doesn't say selective disclosure JWT. For example, that's what So far, at least settled on. Yeah. I understand. To our charter checks. Even even so, I think that, the notion of this is where those types of containers especially in particular VC and related style documents stuff. Gets worked out. I think we need a place in the IETF to do this. There were two presentations in dispatch that dealt with these see flavored and related things. There's no place to dispatch them to right now. This would be a really good place for that to happen. That I believe is separate from 8. Having a set of well defined deliverables that we start with right now, versus having a community where we know where this type of stuff can go and what and can attract that type of expertise. Well, I'm not I'm not so the the dispatch work was on very fiber crunches from the W3C, which is not what we are doing here. So in that sense, it's probably not the, one to one match. It's also not not what we're doing here. Nobody has so far proposed to put SD CWTs or STs, JWTs into TLS. Yes. Data tracker's open. Of You're you're you're missing the point. Stop something. That I'm trying to make. So let me, let me try to, let me try to rephrase that. It's more the fact that The internet has reinvented certificates again. And we call them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "VCs and MDs and various other things. Right? And, people are realizing that there are unique properties to these technologies that allow them to be applied in new and interesting ways that we couldn't do before. That's where we're getting a lot of the selective disclosure stuff that, like, you know, try doing that with a an expo of 9 identity certificate. You you can't. It's not. You actually could bear me much, but, I don't wanna debate that. but Yeah. No. I mean, you could also implement a web server in postscript, but we're not here to argument. Argue that. Regardless, to when these topics start coming up across Across the IETF. I really believe we ought to have a place where we are collecting the expertise about how to do that kind of stuff. And it's my hope that spice becomes that place. Instead of it being distributed throughout different things. ESTijot is a token format, I don't think it belongs to no off, but I didn't think Jot belonged to no off at the time either. So That part's fine. Whatever. SDJot VC. Is a specific application of that that ties to a specific type of identity document presentation format that really has very specific properties that go beyond what the SD structure, is really about. Yeah. I would suggest that we sort of, like, pause here defer the discussion to a, a little bit later chilling first talk about what we have so far, what we had in the last few months prepared and what we thought that we had an agreement on Mhmm. Until yesterday. And then we open the the Pandora's box again, and then figure out, like, is that too narrow to, focus"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "and then go from there. How is that? Yeah. Sure. I was trying to sit down, like, 5 minutes Excellent. I ago. No. I'll I'll I'll, hold your thought, we'll we'll we'll do that. But We finished the other contentious, the slide. It's it's So, This this, slide is to talk about one of the the topics that we had a lot of discussion on the list about. And it has to do with this metadata or cape component component. So, as Justin was just mentioning, you know, these are essentially a new flavor of certificate, you'll find that there are many ways to discover keys. It's one of the favorite things of IETF groups to say that key discovery and identity is out of scope. And in a lot of cases, that's the smartest possible thing that a working group can do. And as a side effect of that, we often see pieces of metadata discovery regarding certificates or credentials, reinvented in flavors that are similar Sometimes they're an improvement over existing work. Sometimes they're not. So in the, in the 2, everything except for in the red box, is stuff that's happening in IETF in in other working groups. The first piece is OAuthJWT discovery. And you can see this well known endpoint with a JW TVC Assure. And then a tenant So that's a well known URI prefix. With some dynamic component piece at the end of it. And then that's how you can discover our keys for an issuer. That would be then the beginning of your verification journey to trust credentials from that issuer. On the on the On the other side, you have this Git API definitions and, you know, disclosure. This is a skip draft that's, you know, being progressed. So It may not look like this, may never look like this. Again,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "But, the idea here is, you know, skip transparency services also need to support discovery mechanisms. And so we're looking at things like the open ID open ID configuration, which helps you discover keys for an authorization server and how tokens are signed. And we're wondering, you know, Skit needs to sign receipts, So perhaps a similar metadata discovery capability could help discover the keys for a transparency service. Other supported algorithms for that transparency service. You can see ES256 the signature algorithm this particular service supports. There's many other interesting details that you might wanna discover. About an issue or a holder or a verifier. Those parts of the triangle from the first slide. And the idea behind this, particular proposed milestone is really, like, we wanna document where we can talk about what people are doing. In all of these different places regarding capability and metadata discovery for credential cases. And we think that, know, in particular, for for the current, Spice metadata discovery document there are some scenarios around discovery that have been really, really difficult in terms of making sense of identifiers and, credentials that aren't rooted in https or other really, successful IETF protocols. So these are this is an idea. It's a starting point, and it's meant to sort of peak a place where we can capture the work that, folks are doing in various other working groups where they're creating credentials And, you know, perhaps we can, Try and integrate those proposals or at the very least make it so that, hosing and cozy applications that were acquire a similar discovery mechanism the that experience is not wildly different depending on whether you picked seabor adjacent. Could could could could Brent is in the queue."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "Yep. But that, cystolic no. I I want to I copied the charter text into a few slides to show you what we came up with so far I sort of summarize on a high level what's in there and then we open the discussion and see whether we are happy with that or not. Do you want me to sit down? Okay. Yep. Yep. Few you want you want me to answer Brent's question first? No. Well, will revert and then talk about what we have to refresh our mem our memory and then we go in and say, is this Basically, it's just too narrow. Be unhappy about the things, the the items we created do we want to have additional ones well, well, different ones, and then we see what we just share. Thank you. So the the introduction essentially describes what Richard called a certificate. And then we here, we use the term, digital credential It says a digital credential expresses claims assertions or attributes about the sub check such as their name or age in the cryptographic keys. Some sets of claim names have already been defined by the IETF those would be the ones, registered for and JWD, Nayanna. And other standards development groups such as the OpenID Foundation. And then, the next paragraph talks about this trying and, again, and tries to make an attempt to define what the issuer the holder And the verifier is, which I'm not going to read to you because you've just heard about And, of course, sometimes you may have more than one credential That's that's fine too. That's what the last oops. The last sentence is. In the gold section, which is the next one,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "be talk about the what we want to do in this group, which is about profiling, taking the existing work and tailoring it. There is some, as mentioned also, there's some ongoing work in the will see and the OS Working Group we just spoke about hours with the selective disclosure, but and that provides some privacy properties, namely the selected disclosure, but there's also some stronger privacy properties that are being worked on in the wholesale working group with, the chase on web proofs, which use some cryptographic protocols, there was we didn't present a document about this. A profile, because that work does, json web proof work It's more is less mature. Let's put it that way. Or is is in development. And and, of course, There will be a need to collaborate with some of those other working groups, because there is already a lot of related work going on, specifically when it comes to presentation. So we need to stick it into other protocols and we have this list of, protocols like rats for attestation OOS, for the obvious, delegation in the building blocks within Jose and cozy. And also this kitworking group, for this registry that we mentioned earlier, Okay. Okay, Brian. Thank you. There is There are obviously a number of use cases, illustrated in from the earlier presentation, there are more use cases in this in this document, the document, this use case document has been updated in time for the deadline. So if you haven't rewrite this new version,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "please do. So it's it's a very good document that, in my opinion, And the The use cases are supposed to guide engineering decisions requirement for these proposed standards. Of the of this program of work and then we have to use your caveat that people were debating up up and down on a mailing list about security by design, privacy by design, and those type of things. And also the use of some of the newer technology that we would all like to use, namely, trusted execution environments, the remote attestation confidential computing, hardware security modules, and so on, work that is, obviously, leveraged in other working groups already in the IT I talked about the privacy, the last sentence also. Highlights the this important privacy angle. What is out of scope is this, this general key discovery Or he just, talked about it and there are examples on how some of that key discoveries being proposed in other organizations. Here's what we thought would be what we want to do is we want to create an architecture document, which includes the terminology obviously, the communication patterns for this credential issuance and also the presentation, to the verifier. Proposed standard, and that would be informational informational document proposed standards document for this for these digital credential profiles covering these a chase on web proofs and the seaboard based counterpart. Likewise, a standards document for the selective discloser Disclosure CWT, and for the the final item, proposed standard for the metadata and capability discovery."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "So we had those, 4 items, deliverables as a starting point. That's what, We had come up so far. And now I'm opening up the queue again, Brent, Go through the mic and and Thank you, chair. Brent Zundell, I queued for three reasons. I'm trying to remember them now. I wanted to agree with Richard and Justin about the you know, the I think Justin said it well, the horizontal nature of of what we're trying to produce rather than sticking to a particular vertical, I think that's that will be good moving forward and healthy. The second thing don't remember. The third thing was, There was some mention of what is the relationship between this and work that was happening at the w3c. I'm happy to take questions on that or talk about it. I chair the verifiable credentials working group the W3C. I am very supportive of Spice. So so happy to have that conversation. Or, well, you could maybe briefly summarize for, for those who Okay. So you already teased at the the point, since right? Happy to. So the verifiable credentials working group at the W3C has produced a data model document, that is a JSONldformat And it has, because it's JSON LD based, certain requirements such as you know, there are context values and other limitations to that document. Additionally, that group is producing a couple of different mechanisms for securing that data model, They're were attempts within that group to suggests, broadening the scope of things and not sticking to Jason L. D. And engaging with some of the more IETF based technologies"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "but ultimately, the group decided to not pursue that. And so it from my perspective, Spice is you know, taking the next steps focusing on add the registry based IETF Centric Technologies and many ways doing similar things, but with a set of technologies that is more at home here. Hopefully, that's Clear. Perfect. Thank things. Rowan. Hello, Rowan May. So, I think the BAF in Prog went really well. I was really pleased with that. And I came in here and I felt like you know, we were way down in, you know, like, 4 levels deep in in details unnecessarily. And I'm looking at the charter I don't really understand what our I I don't feel like we have a good scope, and I feel like a charter is a tool that you can use in the working group when somebody comes with something super wacky that you can say, Look here. It says in the charter, we're not doing that. And I think this group is gonna get quickly overwhelmed. Requests like that. And so I think it's very important that the charter contain a more obvious scope about what we plan to do. So looked at the use case document, and I'm looking at the the charter. So the first sentence, a digital credential expresses claims, a search or attributes about a subject such as their age, their name or age. And, you know, one of the first slides we had here was talking about about, we were talking about,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "supply chain and, you know, whether, you know, whether a child labor was involved in the production of a something, right? The subject wasn't even named. So what's the scope of the subjects? But the chart that can only go so far. Right? Well, useful. maybe a sentence might be Whether you could have proposed a sentence, on the on the like several months discussion, like, we have to decide on on some form without going into another sort of challenge because people wanted to essentially do the work into the charter already, and I think you are down that rabbit hole as well. Like, we need to form a group to then do the work, not to the work to put it into the charter. That's my my I mean, I think we need you both. It's like, it's not like the work to to, like, you know, it it's not like we're gonna stop work working on SD CWT in order to figure out what the trigger looks like, but I just I feel like this would be a good way. You know, that this is this is a good venue for discussing what things we we don't wanted to do what kind of subjects or what kind of digital credentials we don't want. Maybe, maybe I'm the only one. And if I, if I am, I'll sit down. That's What is difficult like, we had different list of items that we said we we don't want to do. One was, for example, the presentation protocols that, Richard mentioned earlier Now we have this sort of out of scope list that general key discovery listed here explicitly and We haven't had a discussion about, like, I don't want whatever, credential from it. And for example, one thing we could start with is you could say We're starting with you know, you know, you know,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "Like, here are 3 types of 2, 3 categories of subjects. That we're going to that we're going to definitely do and we will consider additional subject types later or, you know, like, there are any number of ways you don't have to like completely define what you're gonna do, but like having some scope on this, I think, is gonna be really important. Otherwise, I think we're gonna be, you know, you're just gonna be stuck in the, like, endless rat hole of new new proposals, some of which are not really that relevant. Hi. This is Roman to, Cosec AD on this. I'm using my prerogative to kind of jump in here to explain kind of some of the background that Haunas, Honda's kinda shared with us. So we have the boss last time. We went to the panelist and we actually did a consensus call, and we found consensus over around most of the language that's already in this charter, where we did not find consensus, and we needed it to potentially tune it based on the feedback. Was, around some of the privacy and security words that slide 17 And then we did a lot of talking about how do we finesse correctly the words for kind of on slide 20 or the metadata and capability discovery kind of protocol. So I just wanted to remind the audience here why the presentation, the tee up looks a little asymmetric is because we've already found a lot of consensus kind of on this and because we're now, but we did not finish, and we have the Bob's schedule. Here we are, and now we're revisiting. I think some of the issues we thought we previously had decided on the mail because we have a again, is appropriate. I mean, we're here. We should, we should, we talk about it, but that's a little bit of kind of the context about why some of the skills decided to some of the proponents because we did, we did, we did, we found consensus and we declared that on Perfect. Thanks. Brian, been a minute since I queued. Let me Close up to Mike, right, eat the mic."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "Just a couple things I noticed on the chartered exports are going through this. One is The metadata capability discovery has already talked about it. Was very, very much about key discovery, And the noting here, the SD Jot. VC, Medidata is very, very much about key discovery at Wall the charter specifically says metadata are key discoveries out of scope. So there's a disconnect there that needs to be Resolve somehow, I think. Or is it you want to respond to that? Quickly. So we asked on the OAF mailing list regarding the charter, deliverables deliverable was flagged by Tony Nadland. He said it was overly generic. And then he asked us to be specific that we were doing key discovery for the security format that we are describing in our charter deliverables, not general purpose key discovery for whatever you want it to be, and that's why that sentence is in the out of scope section. Alright. there's I I didn't understand that, but maybe it it feels disconnect like a you can explain it later. Maybe it doesn't need to be addressed. The other point I wanted to make on the charter text was there's a somewhere, maybe the one before this talks about SD Jot being Unlinkable. And developing similar stuff here. It's really not unlinkable. There's all kinds of contortions you can go through to make it unlinkable, but I think qualifying it that way and the related, CW STST CVT work is is probably a bit of an overstatement. And unlikeability should maybe be dropped from that. Part of the charter. Okay. That's that's good feedback. Yeah. Mike."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "The the unlinkability aspect, just quick quick quick quick quick quick quick quick quick clarification there was in relation to, like JSON Webproofs, etcetera, while I'm a little skeptical of that unlikability. It is a thing that people are claiming. But, and wanted to include here. I I've got a note that I, personally, I would be fine with keeping the program of work. And the milestones because I think it's stuff that everyone has kind of agreed we wanna do. And one of the key things when we look at the program of work is right off that it says we're gonna go define this terminology. And what it means in the IETF. I think it's a valuable thing. I think it's actually a very valuable thing. Could probably say All night of scope, we cross off all JSON LD stuff. Cool. Nido. Right? We just saved herself a huge headache, and we let W3C deal with that. That that would be great for me. And so that might be a simple addition there. The rest of it's just kind of informative text that's like background that people argue over, but isn't really about the work. And that and and I see a spending huge amount of time over things that we just set haven't defined yet what they mean And so I I I wonder if there's not a simpler, more concise thing that just says These concepts exist This group will define them as related, and here's where we're starting. And at a thick we could we could probably cut the charter text in half. And have something we could work with. And we already know there's a pile of people in the room already writing code stuff and already writing drafts, So that would be nice to see that move forward. Thanks, Mike. Maria. Mia, good evening. I would like to understand the relationship with w actually a little bit better. So you said data find your data model is a spice supposed to use the data model or a spice supposed to build based on that data model or a spice doing something that is evolving completely independently. So what's the dependency? And how much do we need to coordinate there?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "Brent Sundell. So The dependency is conceptual, There are concepts and capabilities ideas that came out of the w three c work. And those concepts, I think, are consistent with what is being discussed within spice, but There's no intention within Spice of using the actual data model that's out of the W3C. Double clarify. So you mean, they like, those groups could, like, develop independently moving different directions, and we wouldn't have a problem with it. I I think that there are enough people coordinating the 2 that ideally wouldn't move too far apart, but theoretically, yes. Alright. Just to put a real fine point of it. The the w 3c verifiable credential data model is a is a work of philosophy. It is not interoperable in any way. So, like, It it describes an overall gestalt of a thing. Which, you know, the w 3 c, JSON LD stuff is is lying to. This stuff will inevitably align to it because what the just all it describes is basically, you know, has the the bits that you expect in a credential like this. So, like, yes, we will we will end up having the right shape there's no need for any explicit coordination, much less like technical coordination. Martin. Yeah. Man Thompson, as liaison to the W3C, the fact that there's no mention at all. Of that work in this charter, concerns me even if all of the things that have just been said are true. I would like to see something inherited I I guess, address that concern. Because what we've found in the past is that having a very clear delineation between work that happens here and work that happens there and an understanding from both parties that this is the case we can, we can make progress. But if we don't have that understanding upfront, it ends in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "bitterness and recriminations and endless endless, arguments, I'd rather not have that happen. So if we if there's something we can do to head that off, that would be that would be really good. The the second thing I got up here to say is that, The the use of selective disclosure here is fine. But there's a lot of work talked about here that is not selective disclosure. It's it's this unlinkability part and they often use very different technologies, and that is not really acknowledged in this charter at all. It really just sort of says, we're gonna do this grab bag of things. And those are systems that have very different application domains and very different, properties out the other end of them. And if just sort of lump them all together and just assume that the working group's gonna work it out. I I suspect that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that will end up with trouble. So I'd like this scope to be clearer. That's a great transcription of what I just said. Yeah. We can copy that into the chart that takes right away. Roman Daniel again pulling, 80 prerogative to explain kind of history. The original charter checks had references to W3C when we went to the mail list, did the consensus all the request was after a lot of back and forth said, because of the reasons Richard was talking about to pull it out. Because folks were asking for there was a lot of detail about when Mira's asking specific bindings and all of a sudden that was confusing the audience. And so sense was supposed to pull it out. Which we'll revisit here. And Mike said, as I think Mike earlier. Like, a lot of the reason we were here having this discussion is that w three didn't w the folks in the w three c, the participants there didn't wanna do the work, that folks wanted to do. So we're doing it here one sentence This is related to the work over there, but it is Not the same. Just acknowledge that fact and make that very clear. And if we have folks over on the w three c sign, sign,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "I'm sitting in chair positions and whatnot. Do you understand that? And folks over here that understand that We're all happy. The the problem here is that there is a very good chance that there's some overlap between the works that that that are going on here and there, and we need to make sure that when when when when when there's a argument where you can go look there's the agreement. And and that's that's an important function that Charter's provide. Okay. Alright. Yep. Thanks. I agree with everything that's been said so far. I thought I've come to the mic just to attempt to make it really clear what the connection points are between the IETF work that's existed in the W3C work. So I I think I said this in the chat, but I'll coming to set on the mic, you know, The primary differences at the data model layer IITF uses IONA registries for JWT and CWT claims. And then there's a policy for what are called the private claims or not non registered values, And that's worked well for protocols that needed interoperability around certain values. And for protocols that needed to have arbitrary values that that weren't in the public registries. And just to add another organization to make the point even stronger. The ISO M doc format also uses a claims registry structure. And so, if you think about IETF, ISO and W3C. Each of them have a sort of of, A payload, approach But ISO MDOC and W3C both use IATF cozy sign 1, or Jason Webb Tokens, or SD Jot, W3C has one security format that they've developed in W3C called data integrity proofs, and that is a Jason LD's specific security format generate signatures over the JSON LD media types but doesn't support, signing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "arbitrary content, like a adjacent web signature or cozy sign 1 can sign arbitrary content, So just to be clear, like, there is a a a kind of clear connection points between these organizations, but all of them are using the term verifiable residential. To describe the secured object, that moves through the system. They're using, all using the same term issuer and holder and verifier to describe their roles. And I think, you know, we versions of the charter have had much of the text that has been requested at the mic line here and then other folks wanted to remove it. So, if you want the full history, it's most of it's on the mailing list. And, I'm happy to answer any more, you know, technical questions folks might have about how these can but, you know, appreciate Martin's comments and, I think we can probably add some text back. I think, by now, it should be clear to everyone that there is a long history And we haven't even gone back, like, the last 20 years, on this on this topic to info card also. And and, like, we can't all describe this on in the charter. It's interesting, but you could write the book about it. Anyway, Cullin, So call it James. I mean, I don't really care much about the history and I wasn't part the most recent discussion, but I am looking at the charter now from do I believe I have a consensus for it, which is what we're gonna to measure at some point. And I definitely see this as coming out of a large portion of basically venue shopping between 2 different STOs of w or, you know, I ask myself, is this charter clear enough that I can determine? Whether something should be in that venue or this venue. I have a really hard time reading this charter and knowing what's in or what's out. I really do. And it's it's not like I don't under, you know, it is a space. I know at some level. So I'm pretty sure I'm probably not the only one that's sort of asking that. And, know, the verified credentials is one group you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "that I can easily see things being venue shop between what's being proposed here and what's being proposed there with no way for us to sort that out. That may not be a big deal. I'm sure lots of people would be thrilled about that. It may be a big deal, but it seems like a bigger deal to us that just ignoring the venue shopping issue even of just Yeah. Is this crisp enough of what's in and what's out? Particularly the first version. So let's have a look. Digital credentials covering, JSON web proof and, The Cboe by proof. Like, his dad It's Look. That's like saying, media that you could represent in UTF 8 or Octat like, who cares? I don't care, like, whether, like, exactly the little details of this. That's That is an infinitely large thing that you've already said right there. Right? I don't think so. Like, in this in this context, like, when it comes to JSON LD versus, some other technology. I don't think it's an indefinitely large. It's think it's This is basically pointing straight to the work in a wholesale working is currently ongoing by a couple of folks Yeah. Colin GWP, CWP are specific formats, specific encapsulations for specific security properties. Yeah. But Like, maybe digital credential profiles. is there a limit to what claims I can put into credentials. I mean, there's not a limits of, like, the subject hotlines you can put in a search. Exactly. That's exact. That's like cut. That's the cut point that's delivered. Okay. So that's like It's not really point. Given you can put anything in any of those, it's not a cut point. a cut So, like, I mean, would you charter peak kicks today? Like, I defer to the room. But, like, like, peaches, per se, I'm I'm not but Like, I've been PGP. Like, if you ever have any number of secure container things, So, I mean, that's the I'm not I'm not trying to poke at where the line is. Okay. I'm trying to sort of say that if the if it's we're going to do all types of credentials of all forms in here. Fine. Right?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:03",
    "text": "But that's not. Like, Mohanis shakes his head when I said that. So I'm just all I'm I'm not arguing what it should be or shouldn't be. I'm saying when I read it right now, I can't fully understand what it for not for not Sir, sir, sir, Okay. Okay. Coming from me. Brent. Brent Zundell, there's been a lot of conversation just really recently about how the charter started and changes that were made to it over the long, you know, in the mailing list, I, you know, last round of calls for consensus is seemed like we did have rough consensus on the charter text version 3. I I still think version 3 is a great charter. I, at the same token, I haven't heard anything that folks have said, hey. I would like this added to the charter this clarification made. That I would oppose. I'd be happy to you know, see those incorporated in, but I'm concerned about endless churning on the charter tax because we've seen We've already seen, hey. The charter used to say Jason LDW3c stuff. And then that got taken out. Now we're talking about putting it back in. I We have to we have to stop somewhere and we have to say, this is the thing And I I'm curious if we said version 3 is the thing, how the room would feel about that. I like, Where are we as far as consensus on the the charter text as it exists now? I'm curious about that. Oh, and will Okay. Cool. Sorry. Just a practical point. We'll we'll people who walk to the please announce who they are. The people have to remote have some trouble because some lag on the names disappearing on the top of the screen for who is actually speaking. So please, say your name Yep. We'll ask that quest question for sure. Yep. Manu, No, Mike, Mike is first."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:03",
    "text": "Now the other mic. Sorry. Sorry. Too too many mics. Mike Mike Prorock here, one of one of many bikes in queue and in the room. The I think there's a pretty clear delineation, that when we originally proposed some charter checks, even just bouncing things around on the list, etcetera. We kinda came up with, which is basically need to be able to do some of this stuff without JSON LD. And in particular, in binary, for you know, actual wire transmission type stuff. Cool. Neat. Right? So we we could add out of scope if we really want to, but I think the actual program of work pretty clear that we've got for basic things that we could start with. People have already started on them. I think it would be ashamed to come out of this. Churning more and more on charter text. I that it would mean I like all the charter techs that's in there, but does it support the work I need to move forward with my customers. I mean, I we're sitting here with live real use cases. Like, we're testing stuff with multiple government agencies. We need interoperability We can't find that. Out of esoteric science project reinventions of XML decig in JSON LD. Like, it's not a good thing. So gives us a way manu. Yeah. Mehdi Fontaine with Hashmesh. I'm one of the contrarian on on the lists. So I just wanna to acknowledge that. I'm also an ub at the, ETF. I actually very much support the idea of internet credentials. I think they are very important. I'm know, supporting the work of the working group, assuming that we can, in fact,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "open up the work and it's really for working and propose different ideas. Have some issues with some of the words that are in there. I do also have some very specific use cases that we approach quite differently. In particular, I came to the, IETF because I believe that internet credentials should be at the internet layer, not at the web. Layer layer. Pre because the web is injecting a, you know, domain authority over credentials that like holders that may not be domains, and there should not be domain insiders having access to those things. We've actually approached the problem and and our company is working on a system that tackled the decentralized key management issue first I'm a little bit bothered by the idea of having key management completely out of scope. Because we actually discovered that if you solve that problem first, Then other things fall into place, we had a hot RFC and a side meeting yesterday to discuss some of this work. It is functional. It is code. It it's out there, and it it's it it works. So I just wanted to make that comment that I think we are onto something that's super important that we should move forward with this topic, but we should keep an open mind a little bit longer maybe, instead of trying to fall back onto existing patterns. That have some dead ends. One more thing that I wanted to say, and, Hank, I'd love to touch base with you this morning. I was in the rats, meeting, and we talk about rats, nest, which I love. Which is a fantastic problem that shows indeed that there's rights all the way down, and it used to be turtles all the way down. It used to be digital certificates and, you know, and key management and and then figuring out the binding between a key and a specific entity who has authority over the key, that problem is remains unsolved. If we solve that problem first, rut nest goes away. The key management problem goes away, and then we can get to Internet credentials. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "I hope we can move forward with this in an open forum way so that we can share new work and new approaches. Thanks. Mike Jones. Mike Jones. When I mentored people who want to do work. in the IETF, I tell them that you succeed here by proposing a solution to a real problem or set of problems that people know they have. Or that they can be convinced that they have. And this work meets that criteria. In my mind, that, there's specific credential formats that are needed for some of the use cases that have been talked about that are binary that are based on seaborne and draw from some of the seabor web token experience. And so I think we're in a good place. We just need to finish a charter and formal working group. And do the work and solve the problems. I will also put on my hat that I am one of the editors of the W3C verifiable credentials working group specs. That both the VC data model and securing with Jason Webb signature and with Jose. And I do want to address colons. Venue shopping point. I don't see there being venue shopping here any more than it was menu shopping for us to charter a new Kose working group. Because it was doing a different thing than Jose. It's a very related thing."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:03",
    "text": "But, you know, doing binary signatures was different than doing Jason signatures. And I'm fine acknowledging that But, You know, in the w three c world, they're enamored with Symantic Webb and Jason LD. And more power to them. They didn't wanna do this other work. This other work is needed to solve some problems the IETF is good at doing things to solve problems. So I think this is poly appropriate. Thank you. Hank. Hi. This is Hank. Yeah. Basically, Mike, you said 8, like, 80% what I want to send to Colin, but this this, the scoping down to claims, Yeah. That's not the shopping thing. That's the actual cool thing. And the and I cannot stress enough. That we can put the exact same concepts that we have in the payload into the header now. And into the unprotected header, and that is such a cool mechanism that, and that's all in the program. If if the tech before the program of work needs some massaging think they're already good. I mean, might need are the best attacks, but, but I think after 3 months of consensus building, the good enough. If there's really something bad in there, tiny poor request maybe, but I actually don't think it's necessary anymore. To be honest. That's a that's a good point, Hank. Because I've been wondering how to address, your point, Colin. I understand how to address Martin's point. Well, Richard, you have to propose on how to address Colin's point. I do. Yeah. So, yeah, this is fun, Thompson. So I I think there's actually some synergy between the how do we talk about W3C DC data model point and Collins point because I think that's, you know,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "Actually, the scoping of how we wanna constrain this is to roughly what's in the VC data We wanna build a thing that has, like, an issuance time and an expiration time. And a slot where you say here's the identity stuff in a, you know, in a signature And, yes, yes, there will be scheme. you know, agility as to what goes in the identity bucket, but the framing of all the you know, the the the X509 vets about issue and, you know, issuance time expiration who issued it, things like that. Like, that's the stuff we'll nail down here. So I think we we could probably clarify, you know, hit both of these points. So, you know, say that we're gonna trying to find things roughly at the level that the VC data model defines things. So clarify that, but also is, you know, establish what we're gonna do here and where the the the the, the flexibility is So so you are saying the Chanta should have a sentence saying that the type of claims that would be also actually probably, you know, so I think it's useful that that Colin is a is a naive observer here. Not the Collins naive, someone who's not deep in this but some space, like, came in and hooked on that digital credential profiles. Phrase. Because I think when those of us who've been working in this space, we we kind of digital credential, and we think, you know, roughly the the stuff that's in the DC data model. So I think just probably a sentence saying that, like, when we say digital credential, we mean roughly what's in the VC data model. Like, that would provide that cavity and give that that phrase, like, the meaning that we intend. Okay. I'm trying to sort of let that settle in what you said, Sean. Hi, John Bradley. So I think It might be useful. Mike Pro Rock may have said it. Gone down this road, but you know, being clear that what we're working on is not RDF. Is not linked data. That, that, that, that, that,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:02",
    "text": "That has a role when you want to embed These sorts of things in web pages. Which is kind of where a bunch of the W3C stuff w3c cares about the web. And we have other protocols and other considerations. So, yes, Edna, highconceptual level the security elements of things in the w3cvcdatamodel our our, know, you are similar to things in Jot, and will be similar do the things that that we will undoubtedly have in the formats that we're we're doing. I mean, essentially, we're taking Jots and adding some additional proof of possession for taking a verifiable credential and making a verifiable presentation. So there's high level things, but I think if we're clear that we're working on claims registry based data models, to answer some specific protocol issues in that separate from a data format or a data model point of view from some of the stuff that the w three is 3 c is doing. I'm I'm fine with saying you wanna do RDF go see those guys. And that I think that would be perfectly fine to put in the in the charter. But I I I agree with Mike Jones that we should you know, close on this. I think this is important work. You know, I'm involved in 2 large scale pilots in Europe where we're rocketing ahead and, you know, you know, in some, you know, there are Components of IUTF specs, like Jose, etcetera, SDJWT, which are all involved in that. But You know, it's just bits and pieces of sorry, bits and pieces of IETF, specifications. There isn't any overall"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:05",
    "text": "architecture. Most of the architecture stuff is actually coming from from open ID with providing the bits and pieces, and maybe you know, Can we put together something where either open ID adops adjacent objects and other things, or you know, we have alternatives because -8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8- 888-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8- 8-8- 888-8-8--8- 8- 8-8- 8-8-8-8-8- 8- 8- 8-8- 8- 8- 8- 8- 8- 8- 8--- 8-- 8- 8- 8-- 8- 8- 8-- 8-- 8--- 8-- Yes. We did kind of oh, you know, there was a sin symbiotic relationship between open ID and JWT because Nat and Mike and I all develop them in parallel. But not necessarily bound forever to JWT. I It's great when you could move on and keep progressing. So I think we need to beyond RDF. So I so I I think that we should just acknowledge that, you know, there's a subsection of that work that should belong to them and Bhavan. So this is, something we had in a serial serial version of the charter text, So yeah, if it's too so, small, I can barely read it myself. The w three c has published a very 5 credentials data model version 2.0specification with data serialization in JSON LD. In this charter, this specific, specification or define concept of verifiable credential and verifiable a representation our presentation is captured using the wording digital credential and digital represent, presentation, respectively. Is that something So, no, it's not a it's not a question"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "should be I'm I'm trying to sort of Well, I didn't know where to put the tech animation. So, I mean, I mean, we could do a poll on it because because this is this is the text that was removed from charter 00. So so and it seemed like the the room was thinking that maybe we should put this back. So maybe we do wanna do a poll on that. Can I directly pledge to that? I'm not sure we're using 2 here. I think this is exactly the opposite what we want. Because that gives the impression these things are so closely connected that we have to think them. And you should actually say they are not connected. They can both independently. No. But, like, you have to you have to put something in that explains that part. That there isn't this dependency. I mean, I'm Yeah. Like, I'm looking for some some good wording here. Yeah. I I I think the so it's a little tough because on the one hand, we wanna say we're we're following the outlines as a VC data model, but on the other hand, we're not using the app. We're absolutely not using this. It's like, RDF data model. So, yeah, I think maybe saying that we're following it. Conceptually, but not literally. Some flavor. So, like Since they're silenced and I'm still in the gonna try queue, I'm and follow on from Richard So I So the W3C verifiable credentials working group."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "Has done a good job of kind of claiming some mindshare around verify a credentials, but They didn't invent the notion. So there are common con conceptual things that have existed prior to that particular working group at the w3c Somebody mentioned info cards. Which so I was weak. So are there There are precedents beyond So We You may as well mention info card and say, look, Yep. Yep. There is this model it it goes back a long time. For a 3 party model, which the W3C has similar ideas have have have made progress on that we are doing a similar thing at a conceptual layer, but I I wouldn't say that Look. They invented it and we're kinda copying them. I wouldn't put it quite that way. I, yeah, I I agree. And then that's partially why I also mentioned this prior work, and we could we could theoretically go back even further. Right? Like, the concept of 3 parties, one issue. But, anyway, we are trying to find, some some appropriate wording that makes everyone happy and and Roman, can could you give it a try? Hi, Romy. Yeah. We're obviously gonna have to put it on the screen, or verbally reading, Spice will follow the conceptual data model of the w three VC, but will not work on RDF data models. That sounded like the 2 things. In terms of scoping, I hurt. We have to say that. I think we had multiple people in the line network. it frankly, but He had it on if we don't, please have them come to the mic line. Yeah. Several papers now said that they want to express something along those lines."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:02",
    "text": "You say instead of follow build on or something? Because follow seems like Spire. I'm John, follow-up on whatever. I was gonna say that this is all being constructed for me. I found the people that replied to me sort of compelling that And and we had quite a few people from Very good positions at w3c speak to this isn't a problem. Right? And we relatively clear. And had, people is other here maybe this so I don't know that I mean, I I do think that having some comment that acknowledged the existence of the W3C and that this was done might be a great thing. But it's don't think we need to fine tune some text here that's gonna really help. I think that it was back to the comment from somebody over here was, you know, Look, that. here's what we're doing. The program will work. People don't really have a problem with It's it's, you know, leave it alone at that if that's what people wanna do. I'm fine You're on, sir. Going back to something that Justin said that they mentioned it as a vertical or horizontal I think this needs to be the community, the home for and ever fiber credential Oh, VC like work. At the IETF. And start So that's on the positives. On the positive side, I think we have a very clear technical vision where we don't like, say, on LD. We don't like, RDF. And we want it to be, performant and so binary. But some of us do like JSON We have much less clear business vision. And that's where the the contrast between"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "a human identity and nonhuman identity comes into the picture. Where the charter talks very clearly about human identity And the use case document talks about physical supply chains, I think that there will be implications If we go for if the focus is on human identity, in privacy and incability, all of that is really important if the focus is the other side, there will be other things that we're frankly not even expert on so we don't really know And I would suggest that maybe initially We focus on human identity only to know what we're talking about. I that was something that was we also talked about in, like, those were just some examples to have some examples of claims in our attributes, and these privacy aspects exist in or these privacy challenges exist in also in sort of enterprise context, if you think about the product passport for something like even sort of a battery password. Like, you want to indicate on, like, CO2 emission, sort of produced along with supply chain. Even there, you have privacy, sort of like business Maybe it does. Maybe it doesn't. Maybe for regulatory reasons. You need to be transparent and to not encrypt it. I don't know and we don't know. I think that's something we have to debate on what exactly the issues are if we actually get to that point in a working group. We don't discuss that in the chapter text, I think. Yeah. But the charter implies that there will be people coming in with ideas on how to do verifiable credential for for for for textile factories, And we will not even know if what they're doing is applicable to the industry, And and we're now stuck in the corner"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "Well, we should accept everybody coming in? No. We don't, no, we don't, strange ideas. You know, why not because we have four items chart that as as documents that we would be working on. And then we would have to do a re chartering. We would still have the group to even accept the work. Like, you could see come with any document to the TLS working group and they will say, hell no. Like, this is the No. Because the people say no. The Chanta is so generic that it's, that talks about the communication security protocol. But but I have, Roman created some text out of this earlier. And I would like Just to complete my sentence. If we are interested in in nonhuman identities, I think that Charter should actually be clear about it. And allow for profiling by external organizations. We should make it very clear. That anybody who wants to can profile the work that we do for their needs. With or without unlink unlinkability, with or without selective disclosure. According to their business needs. Okay. But let me, let me try to get a a completion on the early issue, before we go into this one. So, the text I I'm going to put into a poll is basically a proposal to add it to the, to the charter and you either indicate that you by saying yes, that you think it's a good addition to the chart on by saying no, Obviously, not. So Yeah. Is that but you haven't seen the text yet."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:03",
    "text": "You want to 1st react to a discussion that related to the text I'm going to show. Okay. So who So cast, you are further down the line Yep. Gaston Bowman. So the the the reason I reacted pretty strongly years, somebody somebody said minute know that they said that, but they said Speak into Yeah. the mic, please. Oh, thank you, Tom. Anyway, they said We are going to take the w three c work. Rip out rdf, and be done. And I wouldn't want to have things like that in the charter, please. Yeah. We are not going to follow the w three c work here. We will be inspired by it. But, this is this is not delineating our Yeah. We have inspired, not ripped out. Okay. Flash it up. Can you can you read that? So Spice will be inspired by the or data model the w three c VC verify the credential, but will not, forgot the end will not work on the RDF data models. Floor. You know, It won't win a pulitzer award."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:05",
    "text": "Correct? Can we discuss the wording? Oh, 20 minutes lag. It's 20 minutes left. So you you choose wisely. your time Do you want to patch this text Yes. my I'm in the queue. I'd rather have my chance to speak What, do you want to talk about this or some completely new topic? No. Not a new topic. We're still talking about this. I'm Okay. Go for it. I Ray Lutz, I'm I'm My main topic is election security. And this would be very good for many aspects of election security. The I do have, a bit of a, consternation about the The general's key discovery First of all, in your example, you talk about key discovery. Then you say it's not in there, Some people want key discovery in, maybe you can say that specific or some kind of non general's key discovery is included because it's clearly it would need to be maybe one of the most important things that's being done with this protocol. And the least important is metadata And that is a quagmire. And that's what RDF is all about. If you go down into RDF and you start talking about a metadata, and metadata vocabularies. Then you get into this, Quagmire of eternal discussion that you will never stop. So you can have a bucket that you put in metadata of any kind. And you say that will be resolved by another group. And then have this group focused not on metadata exactly not on RDF, but instead, probably mostly on key discovery, very specific key discovery, for this this the application in this area. And specifically for me, I wanna be able to discover the keys"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "for rats devices. And for people that are working on election. Situations. K. Thank you. Okay. Hi, Rowan Maine. So I heard a couple times people say, you know, hey, we'll get a PR for the for the charter text So the first message I sent in the chat today was is there a github Repo for the charter text. So so so so please send that in the group so that we can send our PRs not waste time talking here at the mic. Well, We have been, like, 4 months or so. 5 months. 6 months, or if not longer discussing, PRs on the on charter text. So you're a little late at the party, but, so we are really on the fine normally in the fine tuning page. Welcome to the IETF, Thomas. Thank you. I'm But what's your point? Do you do you have an objection to posting it on the in the in the chat? Okay. John Bradley, So I think that the conceptual data model is a problem worker. Should be talking about Spice will be inspired by the conceptual security model of MDOC's w3cvc info card and some other examples. So we were inspired by the security model, but the data the RDF data model is out of scope. So I think saying that we're inspired by the date of data model and, but it's out of scope is confusing. It's the security model. I think that that Yeah. Sure. See. You said mdocs, info card, Yeah. Just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:05",
    "text": "Okay. Average. Okay. Let me see how MDX is written Do we have others still in the queue? A mic? Mike? Yeah. I have a pretty concrete proposal since I probably started off a lot of this whole mess that we're all talking about now in conjunction with some hallway conversations with some other some time ago. Right? The, And part of that was just let's get a list together. Right? And we have a nice little intro in that list. It's probably not perfect. But we're arguing a lot about intro and clarification of what's in, what's out, where where's the history and all that? Could we just grab the intro from the list drop it in here as the intro to this and say we've got program of work that defines these 4 work items. We are not doing generalized key discovery for all things right now, we can always figure that out later and come back to here's these milestones we know we're gonna start I would love it if we could at least get a sense and, obviously, to the discretion of the chairs, But if that were the proposed thing, Could we move forward with that? Cause there was a lot of discussion over how do we even describe this list? 5, 55, what are what are we talking about here? And so maybe we just start there. It's it's not perfect. It's a perfect path forward, but I'm not hearing a lot of objection that says, oh, we shouldn't do these milestones. Talking about every seems to say, yeah, we wanna go do these things. So Can we just see if that maybe is a path forward that we could You know, get some consensus around and move on to the running code aspects. It Yeah. You your proposal, Mike, wouldn't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "And so, like, wouldn't address this specific item we are currently dealing with which I'm, which I'm trying to resolve, like, what's, kind of out of scope which seems to be important to a number of people here in the room. So I I would really like to Get that sort of wrapped up It's not there. I I think it gets at the, what's not in scope in a very specific way because the second section of the intro it says very clearly that this is about the use and construction of seaboard encoded verifiable credentials and identifiers. That's what's in scope. We obviously carves out a lot of other stuff. It says, yep. This may be related. We've got a starting place here. It's by saying we're dealing with seabor type stuff. Right? And, and so that might be a way to constrain the scope very clearly what we're dealing with here. Yeah. Yeah. we an So so so we have Yeah. My part and one one other clear thing because it very clearly states that we're not talking about authentication and authorization. Those are things covered by other areas. 5555 So, So so Martin Thompson and Jabber offered, another attempt that let me let me read that. And Spyel developed designs that follow the conceptual security model that is used in the W3C VC, ISO, MDOCs, Spice will not seek to extend or integrate any of those specific technologies. Can anyone who doesn't like that Speak up. Okay. So then I think we can maybe do so are we now at the point mhmm. So where people, seem to be in consensus with the charter tax with these two items that we added one about the W3C and and the one we we just read. Is that a poll we can do near the end?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:00",
    "text": "Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. You just read the one about I think we forwarded that together into one, So it's I my my the the the poll I want to would like to make his is the chart of version 3 which is the one on on the website and also in the slide plus text from Martin Thompson that Okay. Nobody is going to read the book because now, but, which But you should create a bug request, but, you just heard what the text is. So Okay. Let me let me create that Paul, which says version 3 plastered the change proposal that Martin Just make. Is that acceptable to you? Yes or no? Okay. Start that. I'd just like to point out that however you guys edited that question. Tool marked me as automatically voting to it, the same answer I'd done for your previous one. Oh, that? how how did I do But I didn't I didn't, I do I do that? How do I do that? I don't know. I I I it seems like a tool problem, but colon jokes. Anyway, Yeah. It's probably copied from some other booking experience. I'm not going into there's And you're you always voted for x, would you like?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:02",
    "text": "Just joking. Okay. So, like, searching from what I see here, at least the last 30 minutes, bashing this text was useful. Okay. 5 more seconds and then close it. Okay. Done. This was this was pretty clear. So the number we had 40 yes, and one said no, and 9 said no opinion Can we capture that in the notes? I think that's important. So, 40, yes, one no and 9 with no opinion. Yeah. So there was one no, Does that person want to say something on a microphone? It's a okay. It's okay. It's, Cool. Good. How will do we take it from here Right? Yeah. Exactly. Yep. Okay. Cheers. There's a request in the chat. To flush the queue so that people can some people would like to talk about new topics. Okay. New topic."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:01",
    "text": "We don't have a lot of time. Okay. So but just to wrap this up. So I think this was quite clear. You have been happy in the end with, with the discussions and with the tax proposal So we are going to ship the charter to the ISG as, with that change Martin, if you create the PR, then we can do that. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Okay. But, how much time do we have left 7:0:8 minutes, new topics, I Manu did you want to talk about a new topic? Yeah. I've managed to, address the the concept of internet potential, including humans and nonhumans. I think, from our work, what we see is that any credential for nonhuman entity does roll back up to some humans. So there's always privacy concerns. All cases because you want the training and the accountability that goes to a specific human entity and organization entities. So I think we need to address all types of entities, include privacy and, agency aspects to our work Thank you. Thank you, mano. Nick Nick 30, Center for Democracy, and d I I think the points that we're great about, about venue shopping and and the long debate about o, What what this is at IETF or W3C. This is that does increase my concern about, ensuring that think this work will be done in a ways that,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:01",
    "text": "protect people's privacy and and human rights and aren't primarily used. For surveillance and coercion and exclusion. The those those seem like particular risks having many venues where this where it can happen at any time. It may make makes me concerned that people don't like the privacy protections in one place, can just pick another place and and go there. Bye. Think there's an opportunity. I I think certainly the Tech has improved over some previous versions, but I think there's an opportunity that if IETF wants 0. Make this work effective and not harmful that we should be We we we should be specific about our about our goals, we should make it part of the, the program of work that we are only going to do this if we, think it can be done in beneficial rather than harmful waste. But I I, actually based on the feedback you provided at the last we've made a number of changes to in the body of the of the text to speak about privacy security aspect And also the fact, I believe, that we are specifically focusing on technologies that are providing privacy, certain privacy benefits is is I think a big plus compared to what we previously had. Like, we have these RSA Blinds signatures, we have the, what are some of the other technologies, smocks, Yeah. Yeah. The This is the 0 knowledge Bruce, with these type of credentials. I think that's from where we are like, if you think of a regular, chase on web token or a Zebra web I think we are definitely stepping up the game here So say we are heading in the right direction. so I would Whether that will be ultimately enough for specific use cases on what are the implementations will be as good as they, promise today"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:01",
    "text": "That remains to be seen, and we need to keep an eye on it. I think that she has will have to be have to pay attention to the actual, specific deliverables. And and hopefully, you will be participating in in a in a future working group here too. Yeah, it's it's not just at the last box, also on the mailing list. I I've been following up on these things to point out that privacy is more than just selective disclosure and more in up than just unlinkability, and And while we have heard some some positive suggestions about maybe their can be something good with 0 knowledge proofs. I don't see any requirement there or any expectation that We are only going to, ship technology if we think it's going to have those protections in place. Yeah. But but it's also, at the same time, it's difficult to describe the final solution on the charter text itself. I think we'd still have to do our our homework can actually look at the specific details and then figure out on Like, what do we get with the various different solutions in the end. Like, many of that work is still, like, chase on web proof. As I mentioned earlier, I still working brokers actually might be discussed, it discussed during this week already? Mike, Yep. Okay. Yeah. It was discussed. But that's the non profit version for for this group. So there would be more coming along along the road, so to speak, So I I I think I So I'm positive. Nick, you know that I'm a big fan of privacy, and and I I understand that privacy is more than selective disclosure. Okay. Good. I I think we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:00",
    "text": "exhausted our slot now. And I if I look at the everyone's face here. Yeah. I think you too. Not just the time is expired, but, book of them. Okay. Now good might be a time for a summary from the AD Yep. Sure. So so so I I guess the summary said, we actually spent a a lot of time talking about the the charter tax, and I was we we came into this, into a a long, like, 6 months process that that kept us fine tuning further and further into the last little bits. And I think we actually narrowly made, Thanks a lot, Martin Thompson, that last finish line where we got the last points where I thought we were completely derailing, but then suddenly Everybody sat down and was smiling. So so very good work. We'll send this to onto the ISG and then, it's up to us to, see if if if it's all working out and then start finding chairs and and get to work. Thank you, list."
  }
]
