[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "chair slides share with zero seconds to spare how's that just in time terran all right just in time sharing yeah exactly isn't that a supply chain problem we'll give another minute or two for people to wander in since it's very early morning for some of us i'm sorry two a two two five o'clock is early in the morning two is you know late the night before two is two is a little rough i'm i'm glad that this is my last 2 a.m meeting so yeah yeah the next one is going to be and yeah no problem will be much nicer for us west coast folk regardless of what the world status is i should make it to that all right joey where where are you located right now in spain ah so good time zone for you yeah i'm a happy cookie this time all right well numbers are getting fairly stable it looks like you have there like actual humans hello people hello people in real life [Music] so i do have to show off my my super spiffy dane mug"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "that won't help unless i have my camera yes see that's nice nice and shiny yeah we see the mirror image version but uh i didn't i didn't realize that that meat echo didn't flip the image well so my uh my camera is weird because it's actually upside down and then i video process it to turn it right side up in order to keep the boom for the camera out of the way of my vision i'm i'm very strange like that you know only geeks could do crazy stuff like that so how many meetings have you joined this how many meetings have you joined this week with the upside down image though just one just just the one so i don't even remember what that one was but um let's go ahead and get started it looks like numbers are getting fairly stable there's nobody standing at the back of the room this probably won't be a two-hour meeting so we have plenty of time but so welcome to the dane authentication for network clients everywhere dance we need music uh a meeting um so your chairs today are west hartiger paul has taken over as the are you the a.d paul for the for the group now uh yes i am okay so paul's taking over as the aed newly indoctrinated into the aesg and i'm really happy that joey is uh offered to help us as my co-chair for dance thank you joey uh the goal of this group is to shut down before i can no longer find icons to put on the titles page of all of our meetings so this is the latest one the good news is the internet needs keeps creating new stuff so that probably isn't a problem uh the note will i'm sure all of you have read and processed the note well um the essential notes are be aware of what you're saying at a microphone or else you know lawyers get involved and nobody wants that there's a bunch of bcps that talk about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "the iutf has a code of conduct that we all live by which includes treating people with respect speaking slowly and limiting the use of slang and terms that people don't understand dispute ideas by reasoned argument not by violent disagreement and use best engineering judgment finding the best solution for the whole of the internet is the goal of the ietf and then contributing to ongoing work within the etf this is the working group information for dance we have a data tracker of course we have a purpose the mailing list is dance.etf.org i assume everybody is probably on it but if you're not there is the url to join we now have three active drafts to consider two of which are adopted and the other one is not as we'll talk about in a minute [Music] this session is being recorded we will do the queue management using the meat echo online site tool so if you are in the room please do use the the mini client or um i think that there's supposed to be a scannable url in the room i actually don't know i hope you guys do if you're in the room [Music] uh the agenda today as i said you know this and this probably will not take two hours unless we dive into a whole lot of discussion uh we'll take 10 minutes for sharing related stuff we already have this is meeting number two we had two buffs and then this is meeting number two and we already have an implementation so i'm super happy to hear that that the hackathon actually had an implementation of dance-related stuff so we'll get a presentation from them look what it did to the font that's fun the architecture document we'll talk about a little bit and the solutions to solutions documents of course we will talk about uh and then we'll have a little bit of time at the end for open mic if people want to talk to things remember one of the things we agreed to er in the in framing the charter was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "these were sort of the target documents to start with there are some other potential uses of of dance technology that we were deliberately putting off until these sort of got out the door so we're happy to talk about those but they're not within scope until we get essentially these documents dunish so we did have a call for adoptions i started it on february 28th uh issued it for three weeks which ended the last week the authors have recently published updates to those documents so they are now draft ietf instead of draft hue and the good news is that there seem to be very good support for all of them so those are now official working group documents thank you for everybody that helped respond with your willingness to participate and help with those documents i will say that the mailing list has been generally quiet if you look at the activity level on the mailing list there is generally been very low volume of of notes so you know that brings me a little bit of concern you know we do want things to continue and i realize we're early on and the documents are made not at a point where we're ready to discuss the minutiae of them i hope we're getting to that point but if you look at the message chart on the right-hand side you'll see that there's not been a whole lot of messages most of the ones in february were responding to me saying yes i agree to help with the documents so you know our thoughts on well how can we increase discussion on the mailing list and get more work done would be you know please have more discussion on the mailing list about the documents remember that providing early review and feedback is a good thing for the documents so that we don't wait for all the discussion to happen during last call and then of course discussing you know use cases and things like that is always a good thing to do too so i am if anybody wants to speak to why there's not been a huge amount of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "discussion i'm i'm certainly willing to listen to arguments and and uh things but in the meantime we'd like to see that pipe up so and then back to the agenda so i think we're up to hackathon implementation results um i'm not quite sure of the couple of people who was going to present who is that this morning someone walk into the mic or taking notes okay oh yes and tim is taking notes thank you tim for being willing to take notes uh and let me get your slides up are you doing it all right thank you um so hello everyone uh gay bartomina from ethnic i will present you briefly the uh implementation results that we've uh done during the academ and also uh the use case that we have using laura one in iot uh next type please so uh as you already know probably we've worked on the uh two documents that are here so the first one being the then oh well the intent authentication and the second one being the tls extension to send the client id to user server next type please so for the first draft we based on our implementation on an existing uh dane library by schumann so we didn't re-implement the whole day in validation what we did though was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "creating a testing environment to emulate the our use case with a basic client and server doing mutual tls authentication and we implemented the extension the tls extension for both that's 1.2 and 1.3 i'll get back to that later um also in case of the claim id being not sent in the extension uh we fall back on using the subject alternative name from the certificate but we still require uh the uh tds extension to be present uh just like there is no no extension uh data also uh we have support for uh authorization rules so that we can process the client id and according to whatever rules or you want well accept the connection or reject it the one we did like the most basic one we and the one that was sufficient for us was just accepting all client id uh on a well on a given domain so our authenti being like sub domain of a given domain list we accept them and we reject everything else next type please thank you so for the tls extension implementation we base our work on the golang tls library and we extended that so i just want to to mention here that i was a bit confused uh on the implementation because on tds 1.2 well i don't know if it is a misunderstanding on my side or or not but on cs1 2 it seems that the client id"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "where the client is actually sending the extension first and then the server is responding because it's using like client hello and server low but uh ts1213 is using message uh certificate request message and certificate message so it is the server starting the well send sending the extension first and then the client and this causes issues uh because uh at the clientele part we still don't have like this uh version like a negotiation so we we don't know whether or not to to to use ts12013 uh on the for the server side so if someone like want to clarify that uh now right it's honest um normally you should be using uh this extension in the in the same way in 1.2 and 1.3 when it comes to the use of client and server hello so there should be no difference uh whatsoever so you're you're saying that we should uh always use clientele in serverless and not the certificate uh request and certificate message unless you have a very good reason to do so according to the draft it's just that incorrect in cs103 we're using like uh certificate uh request and certificate message and that this has the advantage to like not uh send the client id and clear text that's a that's a good question to look into it yeah let me have a look at that uh schumann you want to speak uh sure can you hear me okay yep yes we can hear you fine yeah so uh that is a good point so the reason is uh yeah normally they should be the same uh the reason they're slightly different is because of the need to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "encrypt the client extension because there are privacy concerns and there's no way to do that in tls 1.2 because it has to be sent in the client hello in in tls 1.3 you can send the extension as part of the certificate request message but you're right that comes after the certificate has been uh prompted by the server side in the certificate request so yeah the order is a little bit different but i don't think there's a way to do that with tls 1.2 right now the draft says there's no way to implement privacy of the extension with tls 1.2 so i think there were some folks recommending that you know this may be a new uh application or a greenfield application and maybe we should only support tls 1.3 but in the end i think we decided that there may be a kind of a deployed field of clients that use tls 1.2 and we would have to support 1.2 as well that is honest again um but it could still be useful then to send uh use the fluxes then flex extension in in the client hello of tls1.3 to indicate uh the support um of this specific extension so that when the server sends this later on in exchange the client is not suddenly surprised and see stuff that it's not supposed to sure yeah that's fair it could send an empty uh extension in in the client hello uh just to signal that it plans to use it uh sure i mean if the support for doing that uh we could enhance the draft okay thank you um so yeah that's uh all i needed to do here to decide in this slide so yeah thank you we can move on to the next one um so a bit of uh context i know the this is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "what this was kind of what i had to say about the implementation i would just now speak about the uh use case that we have so uh next slide please and i think you can go to the next one right now okay so in the context of lower one we have like devices that are provided by manufacturer and to to have like the security between the device and the application server uh we're using pressured key so the manufacturer inject a key in the device and then uh share it with whatever well actor that is involved uh next slide please so this sharing key sharing can be done in different ways uh either by using nfc the device is compatible or just printing back on the back of the device or send by may whatever next slide please um so during the device onboarding um the device uh so first sorry uh the network is divided into parts like the radio frequency space and the iep space uh and when the device uh want to join a network uh so it will send a join request and that will be uh intercepted by the network servers so the little cloud uh on the uh on the picture uh so the network server will then resolve the address of the join server so we're using like uh service discovery to to know the join server uh associated with a a device and the joint server will uh well say if yes or no the device is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "allowed to to join the network and then using the pre-shared key uh we uh we will establish uh encrypted uh session between the device and the application server so on our use case uh we will not be focusing on the radio frequency space and we'll see that in a moment but just on the ib space next slide please so yeah uh the if you if you want if we wanted like to achieve uh end-to-end security so including the radio frequency space uh using like uh asymmetric key or certificate architecture we would not be able to do that due to the very uh constrained network uh that we are having on the radio frequency space uh as of right now uh a compressed certificate will be like 146 bytes and the size of the packets the maximum size of packet is like 52 bytes um yes um there's a common misconception but when people refer to some radio technology is that they look at the mdu at the specific layer uh and then say it's x bytes and then if you the perception is if you want to send something larger it's not possible of course it's possible uh because it just used fragmentation um sure this is a fair point uh in number one we have a very very uh slow emission rate so it's like one message in a few seconds or minutes so if we were to use fragmentation here it will just take a very long time so that's why we rather not want to do fragmentation here next slide please so uh because of the constraint uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "or on the radio frequency space we'll just like be focusing on the ip space right now and uh maybe if we have in the future or a better way to encode certificate or not or just public keys or on very constrained well packet size will uh do end-to-end encryption from the device to the application server using public key right now we'll stick to uh pre-shot key and only focus on the uh ip space for mutual authentication here so uh the ib space is a we have like different uh kind of servers so i speak about the networks that are joined server application server those are servers that uh can be managed by different stakeholders so at some point we want to add some trust in that and we're doing that using mutual authentication and a private pki uh next slide so the issue that we have like with a common like uh pka i like the web pair is that we don't have like us to see a bundle available in all uh for the server to to use directly and even if we had that available well using uh as a certificate that is like signed by a common ca have some cost and even the the free solution like let's encrypt have some uh issue because we have like constraint on the name that uh is not allowed by let's entry basically we want to do names with like i don't know 16 or 20 labels then let's encrypt doesn't allow that so we resulted in the pki so but this means that we have like to distribute the root certificate to every entities and that is friction next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "so this is like our architecture or right now like we have like a root ca that is distributed intermediate c that are assigning a certificate for each entity then and on the bottom of the slide you have like the [Music] dns configuration because as i said we're using uh service discovery based on the device so on the uh joining us uh zone you have like one record per uh device uh that is either pointing to directly at the address of the joint server or a cname to the address of the joint server and the net ids is a similar zone for network server so this was just mentioned uh because i wanted to highlight the fact that we already have the need for a dns uh well zone having one and try per device and network server uh next time please so uh because we have already uh one entrepreneur uh device and network server we it doesn't really have a lot of friction to add a second one for the tlsa record so this is uh i think it's important because it doesn't have any more friction like if we didn't have this zone it would mean that we had to manage the zone but we're already managing it so that doesn't really matter so now with uh dane we're just like uh [Music] doing the ultimate mutual authentication so the network server will send the client id or the dane client id using the tls extension and we have like the tlsa record on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "net network server zone and on the same the other side we have like the joint server having a telescope recall on the joint service area and we are basing on trust that every uh record all right this was my last night anyway so every uh record is into the same zone so uh if we trust every record in this zone we will uh keep like the trust that we needed at the first um so yeah that that's it questions or comments whatever the dls protocol does it run between the network server and the join server or between whom or between the network server and the application server uh it is between the network server and the join server okay um well right now the implementation that we use is using a single uh server for both the join server and the application server but ultimately it is really between the join server and the network server we didn't expand it now to other well communication so for example like network server to network server uh and so on and but so the the net um in if i recall uh laravan's sort of architecture correctly was it not that the network server and the churn server actually belong to the same domain uh like the admin same administrative domain or um yes they could um but we we still have like uh if we are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "doing warming or so we still have like different uh stakeholders and even if they are in the same domain uh well yes especially if we're doing running if everything is in the same domain we don't have any much but i think the roaming part is something i i read through the specifications last year but my understanding was that they made an update to the specifications to support roaming but then there were some other entities involved that you didn't show and i don't know where that specification actually went to whether that's actually common these days or whether that's um they abandoned uh that effort maybe where's why just from from a for the sake of uh sort of having the the scenario and the entities properly lined up um yeah i couldn't really say a lot a lot of things are on the roaming part i know how well we implemented it and i'm not sure uh how is the state of the implement of the specification right now okay sorry i think it would be interesting to have the dane client on on a iot device because in some sense um there's very little about iod in this scenario uh because you're not running it like it's essentially running in the on the network side between two servers uh and it would be nice to have it uh the link client on an iot device because that's where the constraints would uh show up that's where you would see some of the maybe interactions with some low power networks or whatever uh that could be interesting yeah ultimately that's what we want to do uh okay yeah not uh we don't have that and maybe the go client wouldn't be of much use there either unfortunately else with questions yeah i can go can you hear me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "yeah uh yeah so uh thank you for doing the implementation of the drafts um i was already planning to extend my library to support looking up a generalized tlsa record name to support this so thanks for beating me to it um and one more question i had um does the go tls library still support no hooks or api to implement extensions i see you had to fork the entire go tls library which seems a little heavyweight but i assume that's probably the reason is that right yes the gold library that doesn't really allow for much like extension or also so i i i just had to to fork it it is not like ideal and i i know it but uh i didn't really really have another way to do that okay got it yeah so i i guess it might be worth chatting with the go folks to see if they are planning to implement a generalized api to for for people to be able to write new extensions rather than having to fork the whole thing so um that might be something worth looking into because i know openssl and other libraries do have apis to create extensions but thank you eventually it'll all be in the base and nobody will have to extend it at all right uh that's true we might get there too hi stannis um like from my experience it's unavoidable to incorporate uh the functionality of the extensions into the core because um the extensions often require changes internal to the dls stack so i don't so if i guess you will have no other route than sort of contributing your extension back into the the core and you would have to do the same for empathy ls for wolf ssl and for open ssl for that matter"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "but they are all these uh folks are welcoming extensions in general they're very open for contributions okay yeah that's a good point so i think with openssl in the past i've been able to implement the functionality of an extension just using their api to create a new extension and they have callbacks for the tls verification side on the server where you can add functionality so but you're right in the general case you may have to uh modify the cuts in the library yeah for all the verification i am also using like callbacks for um in the go uh implementation it's just that the extension itself couldn't be implemented like otherwise gotcha thanks with that i don't see any more questions uh thank you very much for both the implementation and the discussion based on it um fascinating work awesome to see it uh implemented so so quickly uh it's thank you for good progress so thanks very much all right next up in the agenda is only with a discussion about the architecture document um or any of the authors that want to talk about it i believe you are [Music] there you are yep fire away i don't think we have slides for this so we will i'll put the agenda back up do not hear you yet your microphone was on but no actual audio"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:07",
    "text": "trying again still don't hear you [Music] no luck so far uh he's he's enjoying the audio a couple of times but it's not actually transmitting audio somehow i don't know if it's a device selection problem or joey joey's right you could leave me echo and come back and try again but it could be a device configuration in the upper right hand corner permissions yes always could be permissions we'll give a minute i think we have time but um otherwise we can switch and go on to schumann with the solutions documents all right why don't we do that um so will you continue playing um why don't we switch to schumann and you can talk about the solutions documents in the meantime uh schumann go ahead you need to raise your hand do you want to share the slides and control them or do you want me to uh actually would you mind doing that of course not last time i tried i messed up and was well a minute ago i actually left the room by accident so you know all right you should be good to go okay all right so um this is just an update on the status of the protocol documents uh as you know i've presented these drafts in detail at a number of earlier"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "meetings so i'm not planning to go through the entire protocol uh this time so this will be quite brief even though i see i've been given 40 minutes for this um and you might recall also that these documents have existed for quite a number of years long before the dance working group was even engaged so next slide and as you may have seen on the mailing list and what wes mentioned these two documents were formally adopted and just yesterday i renamed them with the working group document titles and pushed out the dash zero zero versions of each of them and they are the uh dane tls client authentication document and the pls extension for conveying a client stain identity uh next slide please and uh there was really only one change that was made since the last revision and that was to the tls dane client identity draft so previously the draft said that the tls server may optionally send an empty extension to signal the support of this mechanism but it turns out after some reading of the spec that doesn't actually work with tls 1.3 the client is only allowed to send the extension in its certificate message if it has seen the corresponding extension in the certificate request message from the tls server side so it can't really be optional on the server side so the text in the draft has been modified to [Music] fix to address this so folks if you could please give a careful read and make sure we got all the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "language right in in the draft on this point that would be appreciated next slide okay and here's the specific citation from rfc 8446 tls 1.3 about that which says extensions and the significant message from the client must correspond to extensions in the certificate request message from this order next slide here's a quick updated protocol annotation diagram with the relevant information highlighted in red it's just the thing on the right hand side the dane find any extension in the certificate message that's no longer optional until that's one thing next slide uh okay so there was one uh other comment on the list during the adoption call uh about the content of the draft specifically and that was from michael richardson who says that uh the introduction is weak in the client authentication draft so uh that was kind of intentionally intentional this is mainly a protocol specification document and didn't go into a great deal amount of detail about application use cases specifically but i think i do agree with michael's later comment that integration of this draft with the treatment of that latter subject about use cases in the architecture document will likely address that uh but you know if there's additional text that anyone feels should go into the protocol specifications document uh you know please bring it up and we can we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "can discuss and decide what to do about that and uh yeah i'd be happy to fix the capitalization of iot to conform to the existing and ones in that space uh and the next slide to sum things up we think the protocol documents are largely done and we're looking for feedback about anything that's missing from them or needs to be clarified or expanded uh as you just saw one issue already come up came up earlier today from the conversation with uh hannes and kyle about whether even in tls 1.3 we should send an mp extension in the client hello message so i guess we should have a chat about that and decide uh if that should go into the document that actually was one of the uh i'm reminded one of the original rationales for existence of the client id draft and that came from a discussion actually with um many years ago with with victor duchovny to deal with the use case in the smtp transport security community where you couldn't actually um uh prompt on the server side you couldn't prompt the client for a certificate message a client certificate unilaterally because there were lots of broken uh tls stacks in use by uh in the smtp client arena where they would get confused by that so the server would need an explicit indication from the client that it wanted to do dain authentication and only then would the server actually uh prompt the client for a certificate right i mean that's dealing with uh broken behavior so i wasn't a big fan of that but that was one of the one of the reasons well one of the original rationales for the client id extension so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "you know down the road other reasons came up such as you know surgically picking out a client identity from a certificate or supporting tlsa uh with raw public key authentication uh anyway um and uh so i do think the plan work on the architecture document may inform other things that need to be added to the draft but i don't know what those might be at the moment and the same goes for implementation experience and i think we've already had a little bit of discussion about that today and with that uh i think i'll stop so i have some filler slide at the end for people who aren't familiar with the entire uh uh protocol uh they can go through that but i'm not planning to talk about that today unless discussion points arise so i'll stop here yeah i would say that the the audience in the room probably already has seen them so most of them but anybody have questions or comments for the the documents i appreciate everybody having read them again and being willing to work on them i appreciate that greatly anybody have things they want to discuss or bring up certainly the must versus shoulds are a good thing for everybody to make sure are right that's always often a contentious point than that schumann it looks like you're good all right and supposedly ollie has fixed his microphone issues so uh you want to come back i hope so can you hear me yes there we go all right awesome fantastic uh so you don't have slides so you just uh want to chat about where we are with respect to the document it's uh from a chair's point of view it's grown uh greatly and you know it's it's neat to see so many use cases spelled out in it but go ahead [Music]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "uh yeah i apologize for my lack of powerpoint skills this week but uh i had to jump in uh unexpectedly uh the architecture document as it is is a collection of thoughts ideas and a lot of empty pointers as a working group we should properly take that and sort it out i forwarded to the mailing list this morning i understand if people haven't followed up on everything on mail today but we had an earlier discussion in november about the structure of documents and based on that i think we need to include the dancing rules in the architecture document that means helping people that write implementation documents like i potentially could do for sip or webrtc and others another topic is iot on considerations and requirements for those documents and that means that the iot usage that is pretty detailed in today's architecture document should probably move out to an implementation document but because of changes in the employment i believe the current editor has limited capability to do that so i should properly try to find other people to work with or take a first stab at it myself to reorganize the architecture document but as schumann pointed out we need a architecture document to go in line with the rest of our documents that's pretty much all i have to say to say yeah thank you for bringing that up i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "want one point is um ashes unfortunately has had to move away from his role in editing these documents and there is sort of a replacement author kind of stepping in as well but um if you know it would be beneficial if the author teams wish it would be beneficial to find additional editors to help push these forward especially the architecture document is fairly large please do reach out to the chairs and we can negotiate whether whether more help is needed i suspect that the architecture document is you know fairly large in particular harness is running to the mic um yeah i had participated in earlier discussions but then sort of like got lost in other activities and so um just help me to provide a little bit of get a little bit of context so the architecture document is that still an individual document is that's the one you're referring to or is are we talking about something else here yeah it's not currently a working group document it's an individual document with a couple of authors yes okay and like so i hear you've got i'm saying essentially you want to sort of cut that architecture into pieces and and have a sort of like classical architecture document but then implement there's guidance document for uh individual areas uh like iot sip and you mentioned other things is that is that yeah that that was what we discussed in november saying that the architecture document which was really the document we had at the both uh should be slimmed down to more classical as you say architecture document but also include rules and requirements for implementers that want to write documents for the various other areas like iot like sip or other things yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "point of order from what we agreed to during the charting to chartering discussion was uh we would start with the two existing solution documents and we would add an architecture document to help lay out the framework and that additional protocols and things like that would be you know subject to rechartering at some point in the future after we got stuff done so you're absolutely right there's a contention between how much you know individual protocols can be put into the architecture document i think defining the use case examples is a safe way to do that right you could you could include pieces in the architecture document for this is how we expect it to be used but we're not defining it now not normal text so i'm curious what it makes you like when whether you want to adopt an architecture document as a working group item to actually then make some progress on this rather than having it linguish around in a working group as an individual document uh for a while um you had all this i remember we had these discussions um during the chartering process and there was an iot use case which was pretty fancy and and uh um i'm hoping to see some of that sort of being sort of picked up somewhere and showcased and so on or like hackathon wise and then described also in some architecture document i think that would be pretty cool but i understand like obviously like the eap use case and other use case which are more like nuances of uh the architecture and uh yeah i don't i don't know so so the reason uh one of the other things that came out of the chartering discussion was to push especially the solutions forward without letting them languish behind so that's actually the reason i did the call for adoption for them first they were really ready to go if the architecture document if people feel that it is ready to be adopted uh we will certainly call a call for adoption and i would let um only in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "the the authors actually you know uh discuss or dictate when that might be when a good time to to do that might be i know jim is um asking in chat as well why hasn't it been adopted uh last i checked there were still sections that weren't um uh fully fleshed out yeah so uh we probably need to take a stab at cleaning up a bit um before for that but uh i i can come up with a proposal on that for discussion uh there is also some technical issues but i'm i'm sure we can solve that quickly that i think ash is the one with the commit rights on the github ripple but that's things that are easy to solve yeah that's that's a management issue all right uh barry you have a comment no this is barry liba i always question why we often seem to think that documents have to be substantially ready before they're adopted um the working group is going to be working on the document if we're going to do an architecture document and we have a framework for it even an outline we should just adopt it and call it a working group product and start working on it right right so let me ask a different question is there any objection to doing a i will call for a call for adoption anybody actually think it would be a bad idea to adopt it as is or ollie are you okay with it if we issue it now absolutely i'm okay all right there's a lot of agreements and plus ones and in chat so um joey and i will probably start but we probably need to bring up what we agreed on on on the mailing list there as well but you know barry's 100 right it does not need to be finished it just needs to be the point where the working group thinks that the the rough layout outline is very put is is in good shape and uh last i looked at it i think it is so excellent i think we will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "issue that next week then great okay anything else from you nope nope okay um that actually brings us to the end of the agenda as i said um you know i was debating when i was selecting a room we've always filled two hours before with discussion uh and we did not this time so i think you know next time unless we think that there's a lot more content we'll probably shoot for a one hour slot to leave these uh larger slots open uh for for more discussion um so do keep that in mind and i think uh next time i will default to one hour unless uh people you know feel like we have a lot more uh based on discussions on the mailing list and stuff as well so um anybody have anything for open mic or um other solutions that you want to discuss with respect to dance related technologies okay i don't see anybody dancing to the microphone so i think with that we will close very very early and call it good thank you everybody for coming and good progress today and we will issue a call for adoption uh shortly and send a note to the mailing list thank you paul for helping out in the room thank you tim very much for taking notes i've been following them along thank you everybody upstairs you"
  }
]
