[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:10",
    "text": "so it's now 12 noon and we have a whole four people in the room and uh 12 people signed in to the to the media to the meet ago which is about approximately what i should expect i think so we'll give it one more minute and then we'll just start we have let me see yes muthu here's martin see oh yes i was seeing if trying to see if manu is present just checking that we have all the present presenters you're in the queue but we have the only way i can test to make sure i'm properly connected yeah just wave your hand at the queue okay so manny will have to pick up when he arrives i must uh admit that i have no idea speaking of pronouns uh whether manu is he or she"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "manus pony the one that got that does the slides have me multiple suffixes for media types but i i got that person shreds i mean in this context it's the average person is a the every person is likely to answer to he but you never know yeah so let's get started this is the first face-to-face meeting of the or face to some phases meeting to of the media man working group we have a hopefully administrative task in front of us in deciding on how the rules should be to register top level mime types and other changes to the mime type registration process of which we have one specific proposal on the table in front of us so standard procedure if i can find the next slide but note well you're running a meeting under idf policy if you don't understand everything on this slide yeah work in front of you i somehow managed to get the template without the standards for good behavior slide on it but i suppose you have seen all this already meeting tips for using me meet echo remote participants use of a headset is strongly recommended"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "to reduce the chance of echo and project when you're when you need to some links if you need them and here's our agenda the general format is your every presenter gets five minutes and then they add tenants open for discussion and in the end we have 10 minutes for wrap up we have one hour from four minutes to go so any comments on the agenda seeing nobody on the queue i'll just hand it over to martin for the new top level types documents just say next slide when i supposed to get skip okay thanks help can you hear me yes okay so next slide uh the first point i want to get across is that our current chart this currently doesn't say that we have to create such a document but we have to determine whether we need such a document so keep that in mind okay next slide well after harold twisted my arm and got me to become an editor for this draft i just thought i would kind of go through and find all the documents that actually do define top level media types"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "and here's what i found rc 20 7070 is not mentioned in the current draft but um alex malikov sent me a mail and told me that that was the number that i needed there's also first of april one and there's the haptics top level uh proposal that we'll discuss later and then also i found a chemical top level type that is not officially adjusted and it has a lot of x hyphen types subtypes in it so these are just the examples that we can look at and think about what cat here that we want to define if we indeed want to define them okay next slide the basic the the base that we are working from is rfc 6838 which is media type specifications and the administrations and the pieces that are relevant for this work are section 4.2.5 and 4.2.7 and in particularly the bolded pieces application media types can be used for anything that doesn't fit under any other types and types always means top level types actually and the additional top level types should be quite rare and they can be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "defined via standard stack rfc so the question is whether we need anything more than than what we have already in this rfc next slide uh this is mostly well kind of putting section three of my draft on a slide this is just a collection of potential criteria that we could actually use uh well one thing is that each new level top level type should be air and therefore each probably needs separate consideration and if there are a lot of types actually in the wild that was the case for font and this is the case now for a fan chemical that might be an indication of the need to actually formally define that top level type and also on the other hand undefined top level types should be highly discouraged yeah and so these two the last two points are a little bit in uh contest to each other next slide just uh i forgot one important thing betty can you take notes robert robert stefanik takes notes thanks a lot just make sure you if we decide on the thing that you get get it into the notes okay let's go on okay then this lists the formal criteria which standard stack rfc we probably want to keep that but we can of course discuss that uh we need clear criteria for what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "belongs in the new top level type and whatnot and we need some initial registrations if there's just an idea for a new type if i know actual uh actual types there that's probably not gonna work uh in some document i so i mentioned of common parameters that might be a plus for a new top model type and also the question is whether or not to use a working group to define a top level type and i think we should leave that open because we have seen in the past both examples okay next slide in terms of content these are some questions on the previous slide okay so this is barry lieber um can you flip the slide back carl thank you the um i want to just want to make sure we don't just do that first bullet standards track rfc without thinking about it as long as we're changing the rules for this we might consider whether having standards whether having new top level types go through the expert reviewer rather than having to have standards track rfc uh we may decide we want to keep the standards track rfc path but i just want to make sure we don't just blow that off out of hand alexei do you have a thought on that as one of the reviewers sorry i need to log in and add my myself to the queue but um so uh yeah i would rather keep it standard track it it should be high enough bar they are so rare um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "yeah so let's uh let's try to to take the discussion after the full presentation yeah so fine i just set a back to the schedule sorry about okay on this slide i put a few uh points that they found in previous definitions of top level types these previous definitions like the font like the model type and so on they have to kind of advertise they have to advocate for this new type and they bring forward various uh criteria one thing that is that definitely well we have audio we have image we have video and so we might in the future have something all factory but although the technology for that is maybe not ready yet uh also whether some types have a temporal aspect or not or a spatial aspect it can affect that also whether it's easy to convert within a type a top level type then between top level types for example it's easier to con convert an audio format to an audio format than to an image and so on and also the practice or need for dispatch on top level types and the existence of actual subtypes of potential subtypes might be criteria and then of course type specific criteria but it's really these things are yeah and so we can find criteria like the ones i have listed but we always have to be open for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "new stuff i think okay next slide iana considerations uh what i discovered is that there is currently no registry for top level types there is a registry for subtypes that is organized by top level types but the documentation varies for example you can find that there is a model top level type but you it's not possible from the industry to find where this is defined yeah so maybe we have to tell iona to organize this a slightly tiny little bit better uh at least have the type name and the defining rfc maybe some other um things okay next slide okay these are mostly notes to myself in most cases uh the documents speak about type and subtype whereas it's easier to say top level type to make it clear also the questions where the top level should be with five now without and so on uh but that's that's really details okay next slide okay and that's hull slide that's actually not my slide so back to harold thank you thanks for the introduction so now the question of in front of the working group that we have to decide by the have to have to have an idea by the end of the segment is to whether to adopt this or not as a working group drafts"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "and the content is of course subject to this discussion on all the individual points given and formats and formulations and all all everything that we do when we get a proper review of any draft but [Music] the flow's open barry you're first on the queue okay this is barry lieber first i'll um go to the the last point of uh do we need a media type registry we do have it uh at the beginning of the media types registry there's a section that lists the the sub registries for each media type for each top level type so we actually do have that in the registry i think that's that point is not necessary to address at all and so i want to get back to the i think there is actually a minor subtle issue that it is in the registry but that's what ayanna created there is actually no creation of the top level registry so i think um martin's point about that uh knowing rfc is defining top-level types is sometimes tricky it's very true i actually i did find model for him and i emailed him but it's like this is because i already spent half an hour searching for it last time i think all we may need to do is put a reference at that at the beginning here that has the rfc for each level and reference yeah yes i i think the question of whether there is a registry and we need to add something or whether we need to create the agency with the things that we want that's really a semantic question that doesn't really make any difference right it's a small issue yeah so the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "other one is that what i brought up before the my reason for saying we should think about at least is i'm looking at chemical as as a thing that's it's not anything we have any expertise over whether that should be a top level registry or not the i the ietf participants in general are not really steeped in whether a new media type should be created it's the experts you ned murray who are the ones who really have a sense of that and basically the ietf is going to do whatever you suggest so why not just skip the whole standards track thing and and let that go through the media types experts as well and i'm ambivalent i can go either way i'm just bringing up the issue uh with my yeah alex a alexey with media my media type expert hat on sometimes experts need help so i don't mind considering the question of registration procedure that is fine a possible tweak on it might be um specification required as in expert review specification needs to be written doesn't have to be atf specification but maybe with an escape clause saying that experts can request itf review i think i think that that that would be sensible but coming back to the question about document adoption i think we should it's quite clear there are lots of open issues and things that are not you know yet to be resolved but i think well martin did better job than any anybody else of us so he has a document so i think we should adopt it um let's see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "one more random comment about possible criteria for the top level media types might be if all subtypes have a shared property or restriction and i actually can give examples like for text uh for all text uh media types they all have to be crlf uh each line is here left so if your chair certain coding doesn't allow for that it cannot be text media type that's a restriction that is common for all of them take start here i think it still applies to that the like the uh thunderbird used to to support uh um utf-16 variants for text and i think they took it out because probably they were told that you cannot do that um i'm closing the queue after after alex i finished but finishes by the way um and similar like uh multipart has certain restrictions about what can be inside it how it's formatted so again if if there is a set of related things they have common properties or common restrictions that might be a criteria for top level okay uh fail keep it short so yes we should have dropped the draft uh the principle that i think that we need to adopt here is permissionless innovation so that anybody can get access to register any media type without having to kiss rings but that only applies to the actual registration itself"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "when we're looking at the top level concerns that's a matter of organization of the registry it isn't a gating function and so i think that it's entirely right and proper to have standards track required uh to reorganize for organization so long as you don't have to kiss rings to get registration thank you john i'm speaking with my non-existent hack as the author of uh as co-author of one of the relevant documents here um it's been cleared in discussions and other topics in the last few weeks that uh that probably there is a problem with the standards track categorization and and and the next step there um which is that putting requiring something beyond standards track actually involves two separate things one of them is that the isg after listening to the type of viewers and uh and waving its hands and running a last call which often gets no response um order having blessed something uh but the other is that it provides an opportunity for community input and responsibility input and discussion uh the media type reviewers are wonderful people they have done a great job but they are not experts in all possible fields which might be covered by top level types and forcing the opportunity for a community discussion on those things if only to inform them but under the current procedures there's no way to do that so it's informed the isg is is actually a valuable contribution to this process so until and unless we revise"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "the categories of approval for um for top level categories approval for any iana register uh we're better off leading the top level types as uh as standards track even if the ia even if the isbx is a little bit pro-forma thanks thank you i also support standards track for most of the reasons given i think john said more elegantly than what i was about to say which is as a media type reviewer for something big like this i would prefer the air cover of you know making sure that i'm not making a mistake by approving a top level type so um i and i also support adoption of the document thank you martin for putting it together thank you we're at the end of the queue and phil what phil do you feel strong need to have a last remark oh drop out so i'm hearing consensus for adopting the document i'm hearing a strong propo preponderance of speakers who are in favor of using standards track for as a getting criterion for new tuple types and i don't think there's any reason to run a poll on this we should uh confirm it on the list but let's do let let's uh assume that let's just throw in that i'm good with that decision i just wanted to make sure we discussed it yep okay so we have now the driving example of uh muthusami's haptics drafts the first candidate to be processed on the process we decided"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "mr sami are you there i'm here let me see and ground peel of the slides so i you now have permission to to you you should now have permission to to to show your slides okay i'm trying to do just that give me just a minute let me share i'm trying to get used to the meek mythical sharing tool here just a second how do i make my slide set visible through mitako it says i can share but okay so well so let me see i'm also not used to meet echo okay i i don't feel so bad right now yeah so past flight control there it is all the shots for the requested me they are already taken boom that's his oh it says change deck do i do do i change the deck which is currently being shown it seems that's go ahead let's do that okay there you go all right choose a deck to share okay are you able to see this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "yes yes we see it okay great thanks harold uh good morning good afternoon good evening everybody my name is yeshwanth muthusami so what has happened since the last time i i was since the time that i uploaded version zero zero of the media uh man draft for haptics in mpeg the iso bmf's seventh edition was approved and and published in january of 2022 and that is significant because in that we specify haptic tracks as a top-level media track at the same level as audio and video and in mpeg the haptics phase one codex standard is making good progress towards his first ballot which is expected in uh in october of of 2022. uh in mpegi which is in immersive media scene description the haptics phase two use cases and requirements have been approved these are those which pertain to xr and avatars and interactivity and work is underway to define the three haptics related extensions to gltf which is a framework used in scene description uh just an update on what has happened since i uploaded the medium and haptics draft and in ietf itself thanks to martin we just went through the top level draft and from our reading we believe that the haptics in internet draft does indeed satisfy all the all the criterion all the criteria that were listed in in section three and in the in the rest of this presentation i'm going to be going into a little bit deeper into how the draft that does do that so with that just a quick recap of the basics since i haven't seen much traffic on the haptics draft on the media types list it haptics refers to the generation of touch related"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "sensations in a device or interface it's widely used in a variety of consumer devices to provide touch feedback and the haptic technologies require some form of activation to create a tactile sensation in smaller devices like mobile phones or controllers these are typically small vibrating motors if you go to large automotive touch screens the actuators as specialized pso electric materials and haptic capabilities are now part of every modern smartphone gaming and vr controller the most pro prominent of which is the sony ps5 dual sense controller okay so going right down into the the the criteria that martin had had listed uh so i had i i i list each criteria and the parts in blue is our response or our understanding of how the haptics internet draft does indeed meet those meet that criterion so the two new new top level types are rare enough and different enough that each application needs to be well evaluated separately we believe that the haptic structure top level type is unlike any of the top level types that are currently uh currently recognized by ietf and it does it is different enough to to merit top level status for all the reasons that we mention in our draft and it needs to be documented in a standard track rfc and that is indeed the intended status of our draft uh it should include initial registrations of the actual types as soon as our draft is approved uh we do plan to it will be blue plan to register the actual types which are currently defined in the in the draft and may or may not need a working group well we are talking about it right now in this working group uh so uh the existence of a certain number"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "of subtypes would be grouped under the new top level type at a minimum at least one success subtype should exist but the existence of one test subtype is not enough uh we none of these subtypes that you see here have actually been been registered yet i just want to make that clear but they have been described in the in section in in section 2.5 of the haptics draft for example we talk about these potential subtypes which are actually very widely in use right now for example a hap is the standard encoding on all ios devices and ios connected game peripherals org is a proprietary extension to the arc format to store haptic media that made its debut in android 11. ibs is an xml-based vendor-specific for format that's used in many mobile phones from lg and gaming phones from asus and hacked is also a vendor-specific format that's using mobile haptic advertising and certain japanese games in addition in section 2.6 of our draft we we envision in a number of haptic subtypes as part of the various haptic standards which are in various 10 various stages of standardization uh the hmpg which would be the mpeg haptics phase one coca-cola standard which is which i as i mentioned is likely to go into see into cd ballot in october of this year the h-i-e-e which is the ieee p1918.1.1 vipro tactile coco coding standard that is that is currently under ieee sa by ballot and then the last two are are subtypes that we are planning to register which is based on in in numerated effects haptic coding format that's based on midi and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "the audio to vibe haptic coding format so there are a number of existing haptic subtypes which can be registered under this new type sorry let me go to the next slide just making sure okay up the i seem to have mr space page sorry about that okay now existing use of a undefined top level type might be indication of a need but then of course views of undefined top-level types is highly discouraged no undefined top-level haptic types are are currently in use as far as as far as we can tell uh top level types mostly help humans it is unclear to what extent level types can be used by applications as used and and therefore evaluating how a new not top level type uh helps humans understand types may be crucial the only point we want to make here is that the proposed haptic top level type pertains to the human sense of touch just as the existing audio video top level types pertain to the senses of hearing and and vision respectively uh moving on to the next one which i believe is mine do i go on or do i wait for mountain i don't want to interrupt okay okay you'll you're first thank you all right i'm almost done here so uh need for clear criteria for what types do and don't fall under the new top level type uh any subtype that deals with one of the haptic submodalities which uh which which are described in the draft which is vibrotactile kinesthetic spatial surface of the thermal haptics is a clear candidate for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "inclusion under the haptic top level type as far as the desirability for common parameters is concerned uh all data formats which are in the haptics id which put into the sense of touch would need to be under the proposed uh tactics top level type and another feature that is common to all of these haptic subtypes is that they all would require a haptic subsystem such as low level haptics apis which in turn would require hardware capabilities such as one or more actuators in the device as i mentioned earlier to actually render the haptics media so those are the common features you look for when you are trying to make a decision with that that brings me to the end of my main presentation if you notice on the slides i have a whole bunch of uh backup slides which are meant for the audience to go through or go over on their own time but i included them because of the relative uh no level type and but i'm happy to take any questions at this point okay martin you're first on the queue yes uh thanks for yeshwanth to uh kind of compare his new type with my criteria but i think i just wanted to say we have to be careful to know uh who is the dog and who is the tail i mean my draft isn't even yet a working group draft and i'm not claiming that my criteria are complete or they are any of them are necessary so we we have to be careful if for example"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "if you type there's some cat here that we find that can help or that you you don't qualify then we have to look at the criteria maybe fix them anyway i just wanted to say that we have to it's not that i'm going to define the criteria and you just have to follow it's actually maybe the other way around also sure if i might quickly respond i mean your point is well taken my martin but this is all i had to go this is all i had to go by and it also helped that your draft preceded mine in the in the presentation sequence so i was taking advantage of that but but your point is taken thank you phil yeah um taking a point that john made uh in the last discussion and applying it here it occurs to me that uh one of the very useful areas for having reasons for having different top level types is going to be the ads may want to assign different experts according to top level type and that is likely to be exceptionally useful in a case like this where you've got uh you know the whole haptic field is going to be something that needs quite a bit of expertise if you're going to avoid ambiguity or multiple issues of you know issue of multiple code points to the same specification or whatever and so uh yeah i i think that this is definitely along the right lines it definitely needs a separate top level type because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "this is not it's not like application where everything's different and you're never going to get coherence it's not like anything we've done before and you're going to need expertise to understand this is a rapidly changing environment and a moving target and so moving into your own thing does make sense to me thank you phil murray um just responding to martin quickly i think we have an advantageous situation here where we're defining both the the standards track document that's going to explain how you create a top level type and then a first case coming along with it developing them in parallel and shipping them both to the isg at the same time is perfectly fine and i think that i think the two moving the two of them together is going to work pretty well john yeah i i want to be careful that we don't invent too much procedure here because it just gets in the way it slows things down um so so two observations one of which is that we'd have to ask the current set of reviewers uh but my guess is based upon when i was actually actually involved in the reviewer process that uh that decisions who gets to review which application are partially based on who knows something about it um and uh and if that's not true we could go off and formalize it but i don't think would accomplish anything it does imply something which has gotten involved in the uh pre-working group haptics discussion uh and is consistent with what phil said uh which is that implicitly the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "requirement for a new top level type is we figure out who reviews it and uh and if that means tuning the reviewer process uh that's fine uh if that means that we may have to add a review of each top level type that's fine but i don't know that we need to tie ourselves up and do procedures for this or maybe we do thanks thanks i think i think that the the problem of whether or not to allow for multiple reviews actually comes back to the top level type discussion and no actually it doesn't it it comes to a lit another point which is the possible redesign of the registration procedures for subtypes because after all reviewers is part of the subtype okay i think we have [Music] um i think we have exhausted this topic for the moment and we seem to have found no new reasons why this why haptics is a bad idea so and uh some some compelling arguments for why it's a good idea so we'll just have to wait a little bit until we get the rest of the stuff fixed up so that we can actually move those documents forward i'll then pass the sh pass the token again to manu hi harold can you hear my audio i can hear your audience wonderful um hello everyone my name is manu sporney um i'm the editor of a couple of specifications over at the w3c uh jason ld decentralized identifiers and verifiable credentials and that work kind of spawned the need for the media man suffixes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "work really quickly going to cover today some of the goals for mediaman suffixes uh the changes made since the last time we met um some uh topics of concern that have come up in the past a couple of months since december and then see what the group feels are the appropriate next steps next slide please okay so what are the goals here um we're trying to establish how multiple media type suffixes should be processed so if you get a if you get a message with a media type with multiple suffixes uh what should you be able to do with that um so this uh you know question was brought up by media types like image slash svg plus xml plus gzip um in application slash did plus ld plus json uh anything that has multiple plus signs in it when we went to register these media types um the ones with multiple plus signs the registration folks processing the registration were like well what exactly does that mean right so that's what we're trying to answer with this document we're trying to establish registration policies for media types with multiple suffixes that's the that's the problem that the verifiable credentials working group at w3c hit when they tried to register or they were thinking of registering you know their media type with multiple plus signs same thing with the decentralized identifier working group um in in it looks like we're we're just getting more media types that have multiple suffixes in them um we also want to provide some security considerations uh when when processing uh media types with multiple suffixes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "um and i'll get into that here in a bit um but these are i think the the high level goals that i heard the working group said that they were interested in establishing in this draft uh next slide please okay so what changes have we made since the last time you met the old processing model in the draft that was submitted to the working group was just broken it worked for things in application slash but it did not work for image slash svg plus xml plus gzip so the pros has been rewritten uh we've added a few examples to demonstrate um what the uh how you should think about processing media types multiple suffixes and the new pros basically i believe works with all of the media types multiple suffix media types that are under consideration today third change that was made is there was a structured syntaxes suffixes registry this is not my area of expertise and i had no idea that registry existed but the fact that that registry exists is really useful and that the existence of that registry and using it to do processing has been included in the the latest draft and finally a security consideration section has been uh added because there's at least one attack that we've identified that people need to be aware of when they build tooling that processes media types multiple suffixes next slide please okay so what are the current topics of concern this is really what we need feedback on from the working group and participants there still hasn't been enough review um and i'm struggling to figure out how to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "get that review i know that people have said things in the past uh and they haven't spoken up recently so i'm thinking of just like trying to get them on the phone and talking through the draft with them um i think it'd be good to engage folks like ned because he did write the multiple suffixes registry thing i don't think he's provided feedback yet um you know other people have done uh reviews uh so um uh thank you to murray and and uh others that have provided input but but i'm wondering if we should be more targeted and i should just go after people that should have uh opinions about this uh people that have written drafts uh in in this particular orbit um the other question i have is i don't know if the new processing model is correct i don't know if it matches other people's mental model and um would really appreciate some feedback on that there's a link to the new processing model from the slides there and then finally there's this new security consideration section one of the one of the things people were concerned about was this concept of what happens if um someone sending you the media type lies to you on purpose to try and trick your tool chain into doing something weird like um bypassing uh some kind of uh security scanning process um by un-g-zipping something and then sending the resulting value directly to an application instead of sending it through um uh like a a virus checker or something like that um i'm grasping at straws for that attack um but i'm trying to establish that people need to think about that harold you also raised"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "another i think maybe another attack in an email but when i went to write it up i got confused about whether or not you were talking about the media type fibbing attack or if there was another one so i'd appreciate some feedback um on other security considerations other ways that that things can go wrong um with uh uh processing uh multiple uh suffixes okay so those are the topics of concern would appreciate some feedback on each one of those items during discussion next slide okay so what are the next steps concrete things i'd like to maybe interview ned and murray i'd like some feedback from you and uh clearly anyone else martin would appreciate some feedback if you have any um uh and i know that mark nottingham said at one point he thought the spec was a bad idea and so i'd like to chase him down and see if he still thinks that um then you know revise the spec based on that and then i'm wondering about a finalization timeline there's there's no real rush um uh but uh there are multiple w3c working groups that are just in a holding pattern right now in fact the working groups have shut down and they're just like well i guess we'll register the media type whenever uh the multiple suffix thing is is um handled uh so we've got at least three different specs there that are waiting to register their their media types on the spec and it would be good to kind of understand where the group feels we are on you know finalization that's it harold back over to you thank you oh mike is open i put myself in my queue speaking as participants the the fibbing attack has been"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "one of the more successful delivery methods for for viruses carried over email so it's not hypothetical it's very very real the other thing i was thinking of when reading through your security section is that it needs to say explicitly that when you're doing unpacking you do you have to consider security for all the thing the levels for instance there's a well-known attack on gzip which called gz bomb where you just provide certain primitives in gzip that expand to a file of a near infinite size and if you just blindly unpack anything without proper guard guards against such things then you will be sorry so that's uh just another another few words in the in the security section should take care of that and john yeah just to to follow up on that before getting to the point i wanted to make um it it's also true whether you classified a security problem or not that sometimes lying on uh media types is is is a problem as well and uh and occurs inadvertently but is no less disruptive uh and uh and if people need examples of that contact me offline uh and i will send you an appropriate message um but the other observation is and and i don't know if there's anything useful to be said about it now or done with it now uh but back at the dawn of time when when rfc 1590 was written my recollection is that we had a brief discussion about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "uh structured um uh subtypes and we came to the conclusion the right solution was parameters and not structured subtypes uh because structured subtypes led to precisely the slippery slope uh confusion multiple suffixes example which was given to be in this talk and i don't know how much further we want to go down this path this is a problem that we failed to deal with at the time the media types became a male and weapons maybe other things thing rather than a male thing a process we didn't bring the parameter stuff over but uh but my concern is that we're uh we're moving down a path as we go from one suffix to multiple suffixes and possibly questions about which suffixes are more important than which other suffixes in which we really dig ourselves into a whole and then uh and then reach out for a bigger shovel and i don't know the solution thank you thanks martin you have the last word i i just wanted to say that it wasn't totally clear to me whether you actually when you there's a registry of suffixes and the question is whether you also need a registry of suffix combinations or not and also the question by the way then register [Music] subtypes that include the fixed combination of suffixes that they can be used with or whether this is just some kind of uh well if if i attach for example a gzip"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "plus gzip somewhere it just means it's it's gzipped and it's whatever is inside so how how um permissionless do we want to be there or not i i don't know but i think that's something that we should explicitly discuss and decide on that's it yes so we have thank you so we have uh four minutes left on there on agenda so we'll just have to say please please please review this document and attach comment send comments the question of of what needs to be registered in order to do this multi-level processing is a very key one we might have we might decide that we have to register all legal combinations so we might have to decide that we have to register only the suffixes and say nothing about which they which types they can be used to it or it might come down on some alternative i mean is text slash plain plus gzip legal mind type now at the moment it's not but will the will it be after we approve this document yep so that we have to i don't know if the answer is yes or no but i know what no that the document has to give a clear answer okay we have now gone through these three documents"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "we have three minutes left i have one thing listed under any other business which means it came up on the mailing list which is that if we choose to open up 6838 for revision which is another thing that doc the work group has to decide should we drop the mac file types from the from what from the forms that people fill out given that most people don't have any idea i'm unlocking the queue again now martin if we don't open the 6838 for revision but the fact that the well if it gets confirmed on the mailing list if my document goes forward it's already doing an update of 6838 just wanted to say that yeah thank you alexa yeah alexi um not sure about the whole reopening thing that might be a bit process heavy but um as far as mag types is concerned i kind of tend to defer completely to net on this because he's a mac user he has more i wouldn't like to take it out until uh he comments and i know at the moment he's not available so pete also a mac user yes pete resnick and it's been a long time since i've coded on the mac but as far as i know the mac file types are completely um deprecated on the mac it's using file extensions now so i i think is no new thing but um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:03",
    "text": "i think there may still be legacy support for um the old mac types but it's legacy support it's certainly not used underneath so i don't think there's any point in having them on the form um we could leave a space for notes and you know people can include that information if for legacy purposes they think they need to but i don't think it should be a requirement of the form anymore right and barry said he thinks they're gone with os 10 and it's been out for so many years i believe in the original go around of os 10 they still existed underneath but um all of the operating system stuff uses the file extensions now and not those underneath things so i i like i said i think it's perfectly reasonable to deprecate and put it in notes someplace in the form thank you with that we're at the end of our gender and i will just say we have a one action item decided on or we want we want the the top level document to be adopted by the working group we'll confirm that on lists we have one strong indication of preference that the document should say should say that standards track is the is an appropriate level bar whether we have more words than that we should discuss in the media yeah i think it's already in the document we're going to adopt and we'll discuss it as part of that okay i will just say thank you very much and see you on the mailing list the meeting is now closed all right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:18",
    "text": "i um you"
  }
]
