[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "in dings Phil all right all right we\u0027ve got stragglers coming in at the last second welcome welcome to the gem up working session last one of the day Tuesday last session for Gemma this yeah well yeah a decade certainly not the last one ever but you seem to keep keep accumulating new workers we go along I\u0027m sure you are all well aware of the note well by now but if not searched a chef not well and you will find it very very easily and you can read it at your leisure this is the agenda that we have so far one thing that\u0027s not mentioned on here\u0027s WebSocket we\u0027ll just very briefly touch from that as well is there anything else that anyone wants to add or any changes to make this list no excellent let\u0027s go straight into calendars yeah just quickly to say give us status update on WebSockets sure I\u0027ll get that out of the way so I\u0027m the document Shepherd for WebSocket I had one set of last call comments that can just submitted a revision to cover those I think on Monday after the internet craft freeze thawed and so I just need to go through that and revise my my Shepherd comments get those submitted and we\u0027ll be submitting it to iesg hopefully within just a couple of days who shot us yeah I don\u0027t know if no science more they believe bit off-centered so since montreal has been quite a big update to this spec that really fleshed it out it was kind of just the rough outlines on the zero zero version zero one is fairly complete missing a boatload of examples which I think definitely gonna be needed because it\u0027s very hard to describe really what I\u0027m describing everything in prose but I think it\u0027s much easier to understand if you see examples and then you look at the pros rather than just trying to read codes but it\u0027s always the case but I think particularly calendars because turns out a lot of intertwining stuff so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:05",
    "text": "I will add a lot of examples there document there are at the moment and I\u0027m sure that will help to understand it but the actual content I think is mainly there we had a look at it at the interim calyx meeting with Cal Connect in Philadelphia about a month ago as well I think a big what we really need next is to get some implementation experience just it\u0027s always going to find edge cases and things so we hope to at least get some implementation experience first of all over the next three to six months anyone else wants to do that as well I would love to hear it there are a few open issues though or interesting edge cases I thought we talked about today if you can get onto the next slide just before that I thought I\u0027d give a brief brief description of the data model and the slight changes from last time anymore the really good memory we\u0027ll have seen a slide similar to this at the last ITF but there are some more things in it now in particular notification things so there\u0027s this calendar share notification object based type and the calendar event notification data type essentially a calendar event notification dose time to start with that is just a log of every change that\u0027s happened events in this account so when you add something update something or destroy something and then you expose a subset of that basically you expose everything where the change was not made by the user that is viewing the account so this is because calendars systems involve a lot of people editing the same stuff you get invitations coming in so on Cal deaf has a concept of an inbox which covers one small part of this which is when you receive invitations and updates fire I tip this is kind of just extending that concept to any time someone else makes change to your calendar so you have a hope in hell of knowing what\u0027s changed because this we see is a big problem so yeah essentially that\u0027s kind of a log and if you store it in the account doesn\u0027t matter how many people this is shared with you and you have to store one copy but all we just have to know who has seen which notation dismissed it so that\u0027s much easier to keep track of which is why they\u0027re co-located with the data rather than with the user who the notification is for necessarily calendar share notification on the other hand is when a calendar is shared but with a different principle that\u0027s stored with the principle data principle is a user or a room or any kind of resource that schedulable in your calendar that needs to be up there because the you may have been removed from Ana calendar so you can\u0027t store it in that account because you no longer have access to that account so again this is log of when you\u0027re added or removed from a calendar your permissions change to a calendar basically so again you can be notified and choose whether you actually want to kind of accept the invitation to view this calendar that Bob shared with you or ignore it or whatever that\u0027s kind of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:07",
    "text": "the the general data model which is basically in line with what Cal adapt does but enhanced in terms of getting exposed more information in the sharing world to make it possible to create a better experience there any particular questions or comments on that so I move on to that next yeah so there\u0027s a few things see if people have seen the spec there\u0027s a lot of permissions involving calendaring there\u0027s the calendar object has gained a lot of different permission options that you can assign to people more than mailbox and I do think we need them all I\u0027m just wondering whether need to add one more which is whether can you share a calendar with someone where they have write access but they don\u0027t have permission to add new invitees to events at the moment I\u0027m just tying those together but I think some systems might make that separate I think a common where the calendar has separate that they will know whether you can add participants to an event so I have write access to it but I can\u0027t add invite new people to ok so probably rather not add yet another Akal as I said there\u0027s a lot of them already but I took any one things we need need that next thing is when a calendar is shared with someone they need the ability to change the name to make it more understandable to them otherwise you might have a load of calendars or called work because everyone shares their work calendar with you but you want to be named work to Barry\u0027s work or to Lexi\u0027s work and that\u0027s just your view of that calendars renamed you don\u0027t want it renamed everywhere else so there\u0027s no two options here one is that you make the name property writable for these Sherri\u0027s but once they\u0027ve written it is their local copy and they don\u0027t have acts and that doesn\u0027t affect their else which is fine but also they don\u0027t see the original then or we could have a separate property that they can write so they still have access to the original name does that make sense so that you could you have you have two properties on the object one which is the immutable original name which only the owner can change and one which is their local name so I don\u0027t know if anyone has experience with systems lights before with is it better to have that explicitly a separate property or as just you can update the call property but then you overwrite whatever was there before and you don\u0027t really have access to that it\u0027s very I I have experience with that sort of thing in other contexts where I think it matters more yeah I can\u0027t imagine why it makes a difference here I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:07",
    "text": "guess the thing is you change the name of it then they and then you no longer have access to the old name in the data model anymore right and then someone says hey there\u0027s this talent and you\u0027re trying to find it and the you I can\u0027t expose the old name I don\u0027t know is that yeah and I suppose if you call the calendar by some funny name that someone else will refer to then maybe but I mean 99% of the usage of this is going to be you share your calendar with me and I guess you say you call it work and I call it Neal\u0027s work mmm you know don\u0027t we care what the original name I don\u0027t care what his original name and I will never care what the original which is not the case with some other things in other contexts but for here well so we could the current speck just has it doesn\u0027t have a separate property just yet does override it and you never happy personal name after that we could we could leave that I just yeah was wondering whether this is the kind of thing I can imagine someone\u0027s had experience with and either is fine or they\u0027ve got some other way oh this is it gotcha because you need the original name at this point because the the other gotchas in contexts where the object can be updated by the owner or somebody else and that would overwrite your changes you\u0027d have to change it again it explicitly says in the spec yes that does not change the Cherry\u0027s once they\u0027ve changed it is theirs and lavishing so that doesn\u0027t bother me with that but that\u0027s the sort of thing that happens for instance in calendar invitations and stuff like that yeah you definitely don\u0027t want to happen I agree so even weaker argument for the same thing with color I think again once you\u0027ve set your color who cares what the original close that\u0027s definitely not important sep 10 just under demanding things like ITF calendar you show that with me it\u0027s still gonna be called that you know our family work family holiday calendar we\u0027ll keep that name I mean yeah well sure but the the issue here is that if it\u0027s IETF calendar and you share with me and I decided to call it something else why would I ever need to go and know that you called it IETF calendar that\u0027s the question okay question from Rob Norris who\u0027s yes not even on the official things but anyway and if you delete your custom name does it revert to the original there\u0027s no need to delete a name you can update property because they started it can\u0027t delete it so now you you don\u0027t get the original back if you don\u0027t have a separate property in common hon Jabbar from ken Murchison says I agree with Barry fine okay I will know how to separate property if you want to expose the original name as opposed to local man yeah okay sounds my mind a bit of bike sharing I guess there\u0027s a Sherri\u0027s access property on a calendar which is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:07",
    "text": "does this acting team mode where everybody is acting as themselves and a shared cameras so Barry adds an event Barry\u0027s you know Barry the organizer Alexi then the Lacey\u0027s organizer who are you acting as whoever owns that calendar like Barry\u0027s acting as a Lexy secretary and is that the at the moment I\u0027m giving the that there\u0027s a property that says who you acting out on the calendar which is either owner or self as in the owner of the calendar but the word owner is used in a variety of contexts in calendaring and I\u0027m wondering whether it\u0027s better just to rename that even though it\u0027s in a different place here just to avoid confusion but so it\u0027s just it\u0027s the question here is just what we call it yeah basically which I think probably I\u0027ll rename it to avoid confusion anyway okay so tell events there\u0027s a couple of extra properties I\u0027m whether we add which not in CalDAV or that kind of thing but do seem to be quite common I both exchange and Google Calendar have very similar stuff which you can probably guess from the names what they do one where when you send out I tip messages you don\u0027t send out all the participants with them just yourself should we actually try to standardize this thing given that I said seems to be common various proprietary systems and in some way similar one is some indication of whether the organizer is prepared for other people to turn up it\u0027s you can\u0027t stop people actually forwarding obviously information but you can give an indication of whether that\u0027s likely to be approved or not and then clients might actually do something do I at least err sure well yeah so this is a curious thing like these would be extra properties that we\u0027d register against J\u0027s calendar but that\u0027s fine there\u0027s a whole registry with that they don\u0027t need to be in the initial spec and the point of them is they they only really affect stuff when you\u0027re using it viral protocol when you\u0027re using it then fact the only really effective we didn\u0027t miss chairman calendars because it\u0027s about when you I send out invitations should I include this information or not it\u0027s not it\u0027s not in heaven property or necessarily of the event so I don\u0027t know you could argue either way but I I thought it was didn\u0027t need be in the James Callender original sting given how easy is a register new properties and it makes more sense to register it with the definition of how it\u0027s going to be used in German calendars ossified yes yes okay so I will look at adding those okay so this is so one of the capabilities is how big an event object is the server "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:07",
    "text": "willing to store which sounds sensible as probably something we want and there\u0027s a very similar capability in CalDAV the trouble is it\u0027s a bit harder and gerrant to say what actually is the size and you know how we made it useful to the client because you\u0027ve got this kind of JSON object is it like the stringify JSON encoding in bytes or the then depends how the Jason\u0027s formatted maybe slightly or what I yeah exactly and it might depend on if the server adds in extra properties or something when it saves it which you don\u0027t have in the client because there are a few cases where the server like the server might in the really extreme case the server might bunt the sequence number from 999 to 1000 you\u0027ve added an extra character and something you\u0027ve gone over there over over the size limit I it seems like a simple capability except I can\u0027t work out how on earth to be exposed in a way to make it actually useful because unless the client knows how to calculate the size as the server\u0027s gonna see it what\u0027s the point of telling it how big a thing you can accept so I wondered if anyone had ideas about that or do we just get the capability almost chance that no probably unless you\u0027re doing us doing something stupid you\u0027re not gonna have something too big and so you don\u0027t really need the capability about it Alex yeah I think you just made a good argument for how unworkable this is so maybe you did not drop it what was their reason why it was there in the first place the danger is if people start I mean so calendar event it kind of can\u0027t contain arbitrary key values and some of those properties can be you know can be as big as you like you can embed a data URL in there with three Meg\u0027s of attachment data now it\u0027s not the way you meant to do it you meant to upload up you should upload a blob like you normally do enjoy math and reference that but you could embed data URLs and so you could have like an arbitrary big object obviously at some point the server\u0027s gonna say no this is this is silly stop it is that more useful to limit your old stays maybe I mean you could still constructor with it because they have a tree big object just without that but it would be harder yeah you can just have you know property buying property but I mean you could add a billion participants although there\u0027s actually separate capability on the maximum number of participants you can have I think but yeah so I don\u0027t know that they obviously has to be some size limit in the server it\u0027s just how if or even if it should be exposed maybe we just don\u0027t need to is its ex-con sanity and if you hit it you\u0027ll get a error but you should you don\u0027t need to know it because you should never hit it if you did not doing something silly I don\u0027t maybe that\u0027s reasonable yeah I\u0027m kind of comparing in my head to the in extra hmm where it says the the fact that you quote us says you\u0027ve only got this many bytes left isn\u0027t a reason to reject uploading any particular message from the client the client should not say you kind of load Gordon I think it must not stop uploading even though it can warn "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:09",
    "text": "because the server may store it and compressed in such a way that it still fits and likewise the server may reject a message which is smaller than what the quota quota said it would accept or what max size it would settle it accepted anymore so it\u0027s just an indication clients can look at this and say your 10 Meg messages really not correct in this unit says Maxima so that calendar event is 50 kilobytes is it worth having at all and yeah probably not the server can always reject anyway as long as there is a special error yes I think then you can at least I\u0027m yeah sure it\u0027s a to large error or an oversize yeah yeah yeah yep which is separate over quota which is nothing you know but they\u0027re both errors it exists all right I think we just ditch it in from the sound of it there\u0027s no if it\u0027s not useful when I don\u0027t think we can make it useful fine cool I want to talk briefly about alert push which so this is obviously calendar events can have alerts or alarms whatever you want to call them like 10 minutes before show sure it\u0027ll alert what about in a way that J map servers can push the clients when the alerts triggered so that they don\u0027t necessarily have to calculate all about themselves what slightly weird is the way you register for this is with a pseudo type which is not entirely unprecedented you register so normally you can register for types that you care about when those types change you get push the new state string we have some pseudo a pseudo type thing in male where you can register for a type just to be pushed when changes to when you must just arrive rather than any change so this is kind of similar to that except that the push type you get back is not state change type is completely different Bush type which has information about the alert in I think it\u0027s still okay but I don\u0027t people found it particularly weird I probably no one here has had a look enough detail the event the push stuff and jam up to really say but if you do have any comments no okay yeah well I\u0027ll leave it as it is if people play it later in view we can look at options but as I\u0027ve mentioned it\u0027s a bit weird but seem to be the right thing okay finally then I just wanted to talk about the other things I haven\u0027t put in yet but some of them I will probably delegation is in my calendar it\u0027s even it\u0027s also in J\u0027s calendar it\u0027s not widely used but is used in some places it\u0027s kind of a formal method of saying I\u0027m not coming to this meeting but someone else is and I\u0027ve invited them it doesn\u0027t require much on the on so for service port but there\u0027s a little bit so I thought I\u0027d probably document that similarly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:12",
    "text": "party-crashing it\u0027s just should the server allow you to RSVP to an event where you not been invited to and you just add you as a participant again this is kind of defined in the define deny tip but whether the surface will accept your RSP of courses you don\u0027t know although with the new property of allows forwarding that would actually tell you because it\u0027s says do I allow other people to come and also taking over an event which is where the organizer needs to change normally this again is in I tab I tip it says you can agree outer band that someone else is organizing this event now and then there you take over as the organizer caroled I\u0027ve never really offered a way to do this but the stands I\u0027d be saying that yes you do need to do from time to time so I thought it\u0027ll be worth putting in just how you should do this over the protocol the last one I don\u0027t planter out because as far as I can tell no one used it anymore which is a countering via I tip again this was never had it - Kaldur that I don\u0027t think there\u0027s any clients that offer way of doing it and it looks like the once you\u0027re starting to negotiate over what time the meeting should be you want something much more like doodle which is coming with the veep old stuff which is happening in calyx at the moment and so I think that\u0027s really much better solution to this in the Stannis world so I unless anyone really really wants it I wasn\u0027t find edge they can\u0027t proposal sport so that\u0027s just a brief preview of I don\u0027t think any of those are super important as I said I think the big thing now is to implement the core bits which all specified and get some experience with that and then we add some examples and I know things in the details like that into the document and hopefully yeah maybe middle next year will be kind of finished that\u0027s kind of a rough timeline there are unfortunate so many calendaring people in this group all the time but yeah also looking at this with Cal Connect and yes how they come to people Cal Connect is next meeting in April 20th to 24th in Nottingham in the UK so we\u0027ll set up a intra meeting again for the calyx group and potentially discuss some of this there and while we discuss this as well so they make sense yes happy hopefully though yeah people from Google Calendar and Apple etc again we can talk about that there okay I think that\u0027s all I have fun calendaring if anyone else wants tarts and questions about it do so otherwise let\u0027s move on I have a question but I\u0027m too lazy to get up so I - come here as a participant you mentioned at the very beginning you were looking for implementations are you looking for server implementations or client implementations or both and in either case are there what are the things that that are available "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:12",
    "text": "to interoperate with so my my I was thinking more so fermentation although client implementation of C is useful too and I think the the main thing is that this is somewhere where ideally anyone that\u0027s implanting it would come to Cal connect where where we do try to do interoperability testing as well as discussion stuff but we can also arrange other times to do interoperability testing at ITF or whatever also hackathon yeah or just feedback on experience when implanting if there\u0027s bits that are unclear convictions things you can\u0027t implement for whatever reason yeah it\u0027s calendaring stuff get surprisingly complicated once you have all the different things going on and so yeah I think we need just a bit of experience just to make sure that that got the details right so said well we\u0027ll be working on implementation hopefully we can find some other people as well and yeah next three months will can experience for that just out of curiosity other any implementations of this stuff other than other than involvement of the j-man calendars I think not sure of the calendars yeah there\u0027s a jarrett mail but not yeah I did I\u0027m not aware of j-mac calendar implementations this is all much newer and yeah we we will talk some people and see if we can persuade them to be fair far spells not employing most of the stuff yeah we haven\u0027t emotive this yet yes zero zero implementations which is exactly why I think we need some implementation experience before we can save sure yeah this is this is right right next on our agenda was mdn unfortunately Rafael has not joined us this is what the last meeting said no I don\u0027t have any slides from anyone I had people who said they would attend the meeting but the only one who\u0027s here is Ken so but I\u0027m in London so we have zero that section no wait we have various Europeans and both in a lot of this but will this will be a lot quicker meeting than I expected if we don\u0027t have people to talk about these ones I think mdn is pretty much ready the discussion last time was everyone was happy with the changes were discussed where the MDM was too short but everyone knows what mdn means unluckily something else will grab that name so we\u0027re happy with that I think we\u0027re ready to go to last call I will query that also as on the mailing list and check but I think everyone was happy with the the most recent draft is version 2 now Neil do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:13",
    "text": "you remember anything else on that none it was this is published July 19th so co-located with the last IGF yeah I\u0027m the unset MDN paws it all looks good all right I will I will follow up and hopefully do a last call on it in the next couple of weeks so all right let\u0027s move on then next thing is the quota draft there\u0027s been a lot of discussion on us and not much I think this dollar work to do there we need to make sure the lines with the imap quotas and discuss what should be included in there so we need to restart the discussion on that yeah I think this is new me as I\u0027m holding the less the question poses separate you could specify the scope of the usage separate to the scope of the total which I didn\u0027t really understand and I was hoping the authors could try and it did yes like I you know you have a thousand gigabytes of quota and that quota scopes to the server your usage is 10 gigabytes which is scoped to the user well that\u0027s not very helpful because if you\u0027re not in the same scope then he doesn\u0027t tell you how close you are to a limit or anything and I didn\u0027t quite understand their explanation of why they thought this was useful so they\u0027re not here so I just don\u0027t have anyone else had any thoughts on why you might want something like that it also only had ability to get poor there\u0027s no quota management so it was purely for display oh I think people want to devote that of mind but I think just having one sadness Kevin it\u0027s happening "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:26",
    "text": "cool and quite a slush changes yeah yeah okay so that\u0027s the next step will be to keep discussing on the list yes without the author\u0027s being available it\u0027s a little tricky to follow up and check they did tell me they would be attending remotely so you see what happened there all right um and we\u0027ll try and get this done early next year hopefully it doesn\u0027t look like it\u0027s going to be particularly difficult to get done but I know this there\u0027s a few different people interested in making sure that it covers everything they want to cover and certainly having having the same types as the IMAP quota in terms of storage Nick next time I will make sure to check in with people again rather than trusting their I\u0027ll be here from a month ago cool s mine we have no work on electric did tell me in advance he wouldn\u0027t be able to work on it at the moment so the main question with s/mime is when do we expect to get back to it now I should be able to do something by Vancouver I think there are also discussion last time and I think there would be two documents yeah one is extension of the current one which is simpler I want to verify this as my signature of this message and they are more complicated one if you want to use service TNC to cut storage then you can both do both signing and encryption and said we want to set a milestone for just simple one so in and then set and is done for adopting a more complex one like I like your thinking all right I will I\u0027ll put the master in for the first one early next year and for adopting the second one at the same time and then we can work on the second one afterwards yeah cool easy easy "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:31",
    "text": "next is jeaious contact unfortunately we don\u0027t have robert or mario here so Neal you\u0027re back up again okay so this has been hunted into the game at working group which kind of makes sense the concept is as jazz calendar is to iCalendar j/s contact is to vCard it\u0027s much easier to use more consistent JSON based format for representing contacts ie people and their locations contacts in some ways are simple because you don\u0027t have things like recurrences and time zones all the stuff that make calendars hard but they also involve real people in the real world which makes them hard in tech particularly international internationalization we talked a bit about this Cal connect a few months ago as well so your big issue is things like addresses and names which can be complicated in ways I still can\u0027t imagine fully even though I know about some of the weird edge cases so that makes them interesting if you want a format that\u0027s suitable for worldwide use I think we came up with quite a neat solution for this though so the trouble is you have this tension of not wanting to make the kind of data format ridiculously complicated when you want to do just something simple that\u0027s always been a key requirement at least to me for the this format and for the calendar one simple thing should be simple but you also want to be able to make the other things possible and you just needs flexibility so I think what we come with is kind of concept of tagged words so if you had a name like mr. Joe Bloggs rather than having separate title field mr. first name field Joe last name field blogs new that\u0027s great for the Western world but there\u0027s lots and lots of other ways you could describe names and people have alternate names and all sorts of things so instead what I think we\u0027re heading towards is a kind of a simple property called name which would be an array of objects and the object will be like the first one would have a value of mr. second one value named Joe last one buddy blogs and then you can add other attributes onto that object so you could tag it as this is a first name this is a title this is a prefix and we can make that as rich as you\u0027d like and you only have to include the tax you want so that both gives you the ability to describe things pretty much in as much detail as you need and also for simple clients you don\u0027t have to understand any of those tags you just join all the words together and you have the name to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:31",
    "text": "display to the user in you know in a reasonable way this seemed quite a neat solution to me we could do something very similar the dresses which suffer from exactly the same problem so if people have any thoughts on that is that I don\u0027t think it is I don\u0027t think I\u0027d have to receive the text and I\u0027d have to see some examples with different kinds of names hmm you know maybe Spanish names versus Burmese names versus yeah I think we did yeah like so such things with patronymic since stuff like yeah but I I think the nice thing is this can express all that and it lets you ignore it when you don\u0027t need it and still there when you do yeah most much of the time you just want a string yes and so if you want to get that it\u0027s just Matt don\u0027t value right Jordan but then there\u0027s the thing of what do you call the person and how do you sort the person\u0027s name and all of that which is very dependent on the name format in the localization that you\u0027re talking about yes so I\u0027d have to see the text and the examples yes we\u0027ll review it when it\u0027s there I think we need a lot more examples for sure how you represent them but yeah Aleksey yeah my initial reaction doesn\u0027t look too horrible I\u0027m just thinking what the hell Deb has I think LDAP has first name last name and the whole thing yeah well I know but it\u0027s as an example of what\u0027s already News News is has things like yes title first name last name suffix and it\u0027s like cool that goes everything you can do in the world but again I think I would like to see some exam to go seek out people from different countries to help you with the examples yes we don\u0027t need that you know for instance those Spanish names have various family names in there and this side of the family and that side of family and the name that you the surname for the person is somewhere in the middle Aaron yes is represented correctly as a challenge yes but I think yeah that\u0027s not kind of nice thing about that is you you could you just need to get the tags right now you may I don\u0027t know don\u0027t know yet what all those tags should be but I think as a model concept this seems the cleanest one that I\u0027ve seen that might work conceptually would you have a registry of tags or just have them be ad hoc well I need to be either I think I think putting in need to be registry you need an initial set of ones you expect people to using this in specification but maybe you could define anything that you need a registry of significant ones and then you can use any others for whatever yes you could certainly add ones that you just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:36",
    "text": "whatever you you probably wanna if I\u0027m sorting by last name as a concept this is the names you use yes yes and for others it may just be you know patronymic might just be one that you can use and you don\u0027t have to have it registered anywhere because it doesn\u0027t have any meaning to automated process well there would be nice if I don\u0027t knew if any more everyone that was using that use the same tag for it just helps so having the registry probably doesn\u0027t hurt I guess one one thing that I\u0027m seeing in this is potentially if you had things that were just a sort key you might not want them to also be part of the dumb display so there might need to be a silent or something yeah I mean the other and the other one is is multiple names of course like this is my name if I\u0027m in a Western world but this is my name if I\u0027m in China yes they probably don\u0027t want to be in one long string that\u0027s not how you yeah that\u0027s a harder for mining actually like it\u0027s customary to put the family name first just like in China but that\u0027s okay that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s also part of your name right right but I mean it may be just be one name display name or something or I don\u0027t know yeah display nanny aren\u0027t that simple because the way you display a name will depend on the social context that you\u0027re playing it displaying it for IETF will be different from displaying it for the name of the White House something like that even things like got nickname and stage name and authors been named so this P trecek in the Apple address book they do running they have a concept of nickname they have a concept of phonetic name right so quite often when I fill in these things I\u0027ve got Han characters in the actual name I\u0027ve got pinyin in the phonetic name and I\u0027ve got the English name that the person uses in in the nick name now rarely do clients that use that address book get it all right most of them just display the real name although they generally put the order right that may do family name first if it\u0027s a Han name but but well I don\u0027t know if they do or not they apples pretty cute about doing things in interesting ways so I I don\u0027t think you should get into the sub semantics of it I think you should stay at name and you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:38",
    "text": "know give phonetic name it possibly or some other romanized name latinized name whatever you want to call it try not to get too deep into the weeds of what\u0027s you know because there\u0027s too many semantics to deal with yeah I don\u0027t want to don\u0027t want to know with an array of arrays like you\u0027ve got an array of names each of those is an array of parts like that I think we get too far so and wait until we have texting examples to look at and we can review it yeah III think just some of them I mean concept is good yes lean towards kind of maybe as Pete said properties like name phonetic name and nickname are probably a couple most cases but at least for the name one it\u0027s an array of tagged objects whereas the other two may be just be straightens phonetic name is just yeah whatever a nickname is just a string I think we\u0027ll enjoy nitpicking and finding hole in it once you publish I am sure well I\u0027m not even an author on this in theory yes contacts are weird okay what we do right yeah you know it should be simple it\u0027s just like story about your data there\u0027s no complex data model but yeah the internationalisation stuff to make it as Jim just pointed out pronouns probably something well it\u0027s not even just is a binary is that it you know you\u0027re trying to make something that work for everyone when we only experience very small subset of the needs do you have a similar thing for address yes absolutely I\u0027ve been to briefly I think exactly the same concept bad addresses is the way to go for that because again there\u0027s so many different ways it\u0027s sort of the assumptions that are wrong yes so yes and I said you want at least four simple things I just want the address to print great just map dot value join they\u0027ve told you how it should be presented you get the value and you write it down but if you do yeah exactly so yeah that\u0027s the concept I think this works at least better than the other things we\u0027ve seen so far better than B card another garbage does so it will have some kind of draft by next time the good news is this is the hard bit of j map contacts the data format once once we have that defined i I think that\u0027s gonna be much easier spec than my gem account so J map mail to put together and then we have that the full suite of contacts mail calendar which we very nice over consistent protocol so we\u0027ll see when this gets finished but yeah maybe but in the next year if we\u0027re lucky read slide what\u0027s on the end that\u0027s what was changed in the previous two I have to have a look at the draft then maybe localized string was what we\u0027re talking about I haven\u0027t where that was before after this discussion yeah so this has been discussed in Cal Connect as well for all the Cal Connect "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:39",
    "text": "is called Cal connect it does do contact related stuff and particularly there\u0027s a group who are involved in ISO as well and I first doing a bunch of work in and resting and naming at the moment and so good is they are non Western young which means we have broader experiences names and things like that so I guess this needs to be officially adopted in the Chairman I can move if we\u0027re doing Jesse I tell you the point that it has not yet been officially at hazard do we need to change the charge again as well that is on the way okay cool I thought it\u0027s almost the next question on our list is to at the Charter huh I didn\u0027t I didn\u0027t stick on this slide but push apparently AJ who loves creating work for this group in particular eight we were talking about whether the correct working group for a more general push for application protocols belongs here or belongs somewhere else do you have updated thinking on this Alexi well looks better than extra show this work but maybe do you know this was an hour yeah and this is I think some dug difficult people but the main thing I think we can extract out kind of James already following this kind of the best practices for setting up your post channel to ensure that you verify that you\u0027re not spamming some random person and you know all the stuff that we\u0027re it\u0027s the security concerns etc all those and then if because what the actual day to you push is gonna be different depending on where it\u0027s I\u0027m a poor day map or what you\u0027re doing and stuff so that but if we can kind of say this is how you set it up in a way that we pretty much we use everywhere that will be easier for servant hunters and what keeps it easier for everyone I think that\u0027s the main goal as far as I well that person actually having maybe a one for y map that uses that so you maybe it\u0027s even just a best contractors document for the kind of abstract or this is how you set up a push channel thing I don\u0027t know there\u0027s not really our work but that\u0027s the way I look at it done till the Jama but let\u0027s let\u0027s have a look at the draft yeah there\u0027s two drafts that are both in a similar area which is why I thought "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:39",
    "text": "bring me the question of should all this happen in one place one of them came from Cal connect from Martin and that has already been published as an ITF personal draft a couple of years ago and expired since he\u0027d like to bring that back up again and the other ones quite recently from dovecot for IMAP as part of that she had over IMAP stuff they wanted to add push there yeah martin also has something on order discovery which is another great area which or discoveries if I don\u0027t the number of different order discovery mechanisms we\u0027ve come up with over the years we haven\u0027t always all of them and almost nobody uses is so annoying I think we had what more than one buff on this mm-hm and there were like sort of people sympathetic at least at but just I blame Cyrus double last time he just disappeared and nothing is done right okay all right well we do need a method discovery protocol for discovery protocols that\u0027s right I don\u0027t know why no one is listen because they\u0027re not perfect all right so next thing on the list is milestone review those are the three milestones that we currently have listed a submit document with guidance for implementation of time of servers and proxies which we promise that early on we have not done yes we did you signed up from the initial charter we said we\u0027re going to do it in the initial charter we\u0027re going to make Rob Colorado yeah so I should get on that I\u0027d like to kick that one another six months down the road leave it on things so I\u0027ll say July 2020 I once suggested to the core working group something that they did of changing a milestone to be something like 2099 just just to park it so because they they didn\u0027t want to get to it anytime soon and they didn\u0027t know when so if you have something like that well it\u0027s sort of like who might come back to it it\u0027s a question whether you prefer having a milestone that is known to be totally unrealistic but near-term and you know that they\u0027re gonna keep changing it and changing it and changing it or whether you just want to admit that this is work you\u0027re gonna Park for a while but you will get back to it eventually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:39",
    "text": "and then you\u0027ll change the milestone is something reasonable my preference is the latter but you\u0027re the responsible ad for this so I said considering all the other work we\u0027ve done it\u0027s either build quickly or we just say we\u0027re not going to do it I would like to keep on a writer I would slightly prefer to keep it on there rather a radar but I\u0027m less unhappy about dropping it if it\u0027s what happens I\u0027ll put it a nice December 2020 and review at the end of next year if we have not yet got there then it\u0027s it\u0027s I asked some of the people working for you to do it by von Corps but he keeps having other priorities all right no it\u0027s all right we will NEX next year\u0027s plan includes cleaning things up and this is part of that all right submit message disposition notification September 2019 that one I will bump to December because I think the only reason didn\u0027t get submitted was that I didn\u0027t follow up with the authors and say let\u0027s go Jemma hoho WebSockets likewise is going November and I think we want a new one for quarter right yes so we have a few new ones to add I just looked at the quarter drafters routes and the small and I agree with Neil yep so it needs to be over made slightly more generic and certain things are over complicated just three more it will be both slightly simpler it\u0027s slightly more complex at the same time but more general yes we should be able to get to that early next year it should be straightforward I\u0027m gonna say 2020s mom I\u0027ve already said I was gonna say Feb 20 24 the simple one and likewise for adopting an addition document for the more complex s/mime fine cool ambience covers jamot calendars we\u0027ve said we\u0027ll push that out to July next year and then decide what\u0027s do that and jeaious contact realistically well we\u0027ll go to adopt it first so we won\u0027t set a milestone for it at this meeting well well cuz we don\u0027t that charter doesn\u0027t allow us to well conditioning on charter being approved I think you can make it led December cheering I\u0027ll put a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:43",
    "text": "dot if again urine if you if you put the milestone in now then when the reach our Turing comes along the IAS G will see the milestone for Jazz contact for January next year and then have a testing by the end of the year probably have a have something ready for ready for testing at least if not published cool all right what should we do about push because that will be a recharter if we add it so do you say there is a document already there are two documents that are both separate they\u0027re not that\u0027s not an overall document that describes the general problem space and and a consistent way to do us but that\u0027s what I would like to see people moving towards see if depending how general it is http-based working group might or might not want to have a look at it okay so it\u0027s it would be helpful to see the document before deciding there\u0027s also our CID 599 which I wasn\u0027t aware of until Monday so it describes some of this stuff for sip and it may be lit between that and what\u0027s in J map we can create a more general document so can you send me a message with point a tad of core document and export yep cool and with that we are other business is there anything else no we have a plenty of work to get on with but I\u0027d love to certainly see some more interrupts with the general calendars but I expect that will mostly be happening through Cal Connect and other than that the quota works probably the immediate thing that we should be discussing on the list and giving that nailed down mdn almost would be contact meiosis and saying do you think you\u0027re ready to go maybe you should implement as well tester all right anything else no one said missing in Java no all right cool thanks everybody we\u0027ve "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:45",
    "text": "finished half an hour early go get yourself pretty for dinner thanks for my people probably by mistake "
  }
]