[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:00",
    "text": "Anyone here, you you know who could help with taking minutes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "There we go. Yes. So yes, he's Panama meeting evening. Yeah. Eight one clock. And this is Shin and T accurate. Here. Can you focus in the back here us? Did you hear sing? Alright. Last Okay. Okay. So this is the wheel. I help you not. First time to say it. The text is small. But you confirmed everywhere around. So you should be And for this meeting in your camera, in person participants need to wear your mask And it's a hybrid So we also have the remote participants. Well, then please, you know, please all go to the mid echo page, go into the local or remote client, If you wanna see the video or not. Right? So that the Blue suite counts you as participants in the working otherwise next time you all have to sit on the floor, because we don't get seats. Right? So please. Use the meat every one of you. Thank you. Yeah. So if you want rise costume or you're wrong for the local mic, you should hand up on meeting first. Thresholds. We have agenda online already. And everybody should online for. And thanks status with who the tech? That's also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "my Your time notes. So if anybody could help, that would we appreciate. All materials slides already already online. And This you a remember for all the participants and the orders of the documents. Need to do the early Disclosure. Otherwise, you may it you you gonna issues we Us laws for a. Right? To want go. Yeah. Right. So working group status. So I have accounted what is it? Seven eight nine ten eleven something like that. Working group drafts. Fine. And wanted to first talk about B because there's a lot of activity there and the draft are all somehow related. So we had Bruce ae going into working group last call right now, she send that out. We had Bruce that finished working group last call together with you know, two weeks after the voucher. So the these two are related So they're working on the feedback that that was received and and we're going to hear that in the presentations. Bruce cloud, finished Eleven twenty twenty two has no open issues but it has dependencies against the young model, which was taken out and going into Rf c eighty three sixty six base. There is no presentation about that now. Then there's the constraint b key which consist of constrained joint proxy and brain voucher. They also went through a working group last call last year,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:03",
    "text": "and there are still open issues that need to be resolved they were just being by the office because they're also working on the P ae and the J aws voucher. That so those will be resolved and they're also needing to synchronize with eighty three sixty six for the young model. So Michael Richards, and we'll talk about that. In more detail later. So that Rf c eighty three sixty six piece is going to be the the young model for all the other documents. And is basically how I try to to summarize this year. So Bruce k could progress after working group last call to the three without further draft norma dependencies, But the other ones, so B P, cloud, constraint voucher, they need extensions to the yang voucher models, which are in eighty three sixty six biz. And then the joint proxy and the constrained voucher there is a norma dependency as well. So basically all of P cloud felt the constraint voucher eighty three sixty six piece, they're going to be ending up in a cluster in the Rf editor q anyhow, until, you know, eighty three sixty six. This is is done and finished. And so that means that I would suggest that we try to keep them in the working group maybe up to the point of, you know, our area director doing review, but not passing it on to Isi street, until until we're done with it because in the first round, what we had done was we were shopping off the Rf as soon as they were finished, and we had something like grass sitting for three years in the editor you. And so we missed the opportunity to do the you know, small fixes that we figured out in those three years and that was quite unfortunate, and it didn't help at all."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "To have it sit for for the long time in the editor queue. Obviously, we will don't wanna be that long. Hopefully this this should all be done within a year. But... Yeah. So that was basically a little bit the the cluster. Something to see. Yeah. Michael? Please? Ballot but asked to release the doc we're kinda You're breaking up badly You wanna come to the room? Do I wanna come to the room? Yeah. That take me a few minutes to get there. Sure. Is that better? Yeah this better now. Mh. Okay. So you're proposing that we go through Is ballot and discuss and and then stop and wait for everyone. no. I don't think we can do that. I think the only thing that we can do within the work Or group is maybe up to including Rob's review, but then have him not pass them on until all are done. I think that's the best way that we can keep still as a working group doing fixes before it goes off into the wild Area. So you've got a few choices here. You you could hold them in the working group and not given to me. Okay. That's choice. You can give them to me and say don't request him until you tell me to. Works as well, like a mark them. That's fine. You can say do work last call on these documents get working last school comment. That's saw flask comments. And then totally, but I going to hold off giving these the ice g for ballots. You can ask me to to do... Get out on them and get that those resolved and hold them and not give them to our editor. That's also possible. However, I'm not sure that that's that useful because if you make any any substantial changes at all is quite likely it's gonna have to get back to the working group and back through work group last call it flask and Is balance. If small smaller changes, sometimes you don't have to but really, it's much better if you can get go talk is really stable before they"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "they hit I last call and Is review. So as as soon as yes as long as we do have still good feedback here from from the working group from you, will stick in this area and the next step is if if any of these documents is ready to have I etf review we can also do it but then hold it until we have the cluster finished. You just need to let me know what you want to. I I'll I And well I'll tell what you can do. Mh. We did do a bunch of small fixes to eight nine nine five while it was in the queue waiting for something, I guess we should have done eight nine nine zeros as well. Those three years. Right. I don't know how substantive they were. They were all small, takes some it was, like commas and sentences and things the Busy... Our Rpc probably would have found anyway. So So I think it ends up being the eighty discretion. It really comes down down to his is the change significant enough that the working group consensus all the consensus might have been different and that's the thing I think really is the decision of where it should go back through the process or not. Agreed. Just wanted to do the best we can after our round one experience and, you know, grasp, because I was working with Brian unfortunately, I think he's he's not online. But, yeah. We had some small things that would have been lovely to fix. Okay. So that's that then there are two more working group drafts. Not fa b. Next slide, That was just the Yep. Right. The the the grass distribution. So both of them are on the agenda. And then we have non working group items on the and the mass consideration documents and consideration documents, testing plans for mobility. And then finally, this needs again with his A and ai auto configuration proposals. So that was the agenda. So you don't like the agenda stand up now or be forever quiet? Three, two one, thank here."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "Okay. So I'll go quickly through that. So shepherd great thing and also great that we had Math step forward two of the draft and Alex K, for Rs c eighty three sixty six piece. That was a little bit not that by free will, but I really felt that if we had a a yang expert on that document that would really be very helpful. For for the separate road. So then also, if if you if you think this working group meeting is is a lot of process going through reports and then thinking about the steps yeah. That's that's part of the process. But it's if you feel there is not enough time for technical discussion discussion, please come to as chairs and we'll set up according the interim. For example, but otherwise, we all I have the recurring B designed team already every week And that's when on on the b side on all these draft, all work is really done and and you'll typically see the output of that through the github which would be then the final slide here of the reminder that So if you're interested in any draft, you may wanna also subscribe to not notifications on on the updates of the Github So that that way, you you stay in line or get on the Weekly meeting. And that's it? So I think we have stefan in line for the J aws voucher. Right. You want hear or by me Yeah. If if you can open them would be great. So I just ask to to chairs the sites. I can do it for you. Believe that's it. Okay. I I could have done also. I There is this option to pull up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "runs the slide strong from here. If you do that, it's fine as well. And next slide I would like to give in status update on Voucher. So J aws ultra is different type of format defined for the voucher itself. So eight eighty three, sixty six so Cms sign json document as well effect. And J is voucher essentially placed this a Cms signature with J aws signature. Well there are no changes as well as already said. Is sixty six. So it's just the wrapping of the road. The recent changes that we did in update from version of five some restructuring of the documents, simply not operations for working group the last call. Which happened at the end of March. And we are currently about to include different feedback we got. We also included the feedback from the shepherd preview review also looking already in version six. So next slide shows some Right? So for major issues that were identified during the working group last hour, so Aws voucher to currently targets from from the document status of total targets and update of Rf eighty three sixty six and there was a comment but there should not be an update scope up it's it's intended to as a different form factor compared Cms voucher definition. So it's a proposal. Came up to remove the update. And we got some some proposed text from the review which basically targets the explanation of the Ro eighty three six business still defines the Cms signed fact for is on Jason. And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "voucher, J ultra essentially enhances that and defines the J aws sign voucher or heart artifact. Using the voucher definition that our using the young definitions that are Rf c eighty three sixty six biz. Right? So this is one one of the issues that we got back from the review. And also we there was the request to include the type definition, that the value definition in voucher, J aws Jason. To include that not necessarily on our registration. The remaining issues that we got back were, essentially editorial improvements So they are currently being incorporated together with two major issues stated above So based on that, we have the the next steps. Next slide. So what we are going to do is address the issues during what blue last call. So it's implemented into our testing as as well. So that's happening in the context of B P, which essentially depends on J as well choice it utilizes the format of the quarter, and then next steps would be final of the document so right up. Any questions? I think high level the The point is... This is this is kind of the we're not defining the J voucher as Derived from from the yang voucher? Or am I totally confused here. It's just Yeah. It's it's derived from the from the yang voucher that is find an eighty three sixty six and it's essentially providing a different and encoding."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "So that okay. Not a different and encoding to a different wrapping. So the signature is not a Cms signature. Around the the Json voucher, but it's J aws. Okay. Okay. There's no question on. So Yeah. I think we wanted to go for P now. Yeah. I think it would be from a auto it would be good because depends grip number six I'm gonna. Mh I'm going to change the six yeah. It's coming. Slides? I see a black screen actually. It's not that's where are. We see it here locally. Let me also get into if already. I see remotely."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "Weird No I it. Perfect. So this part is about You want me to stop? Yes. Go ahead. Okay. This one is about an update on Bruce key with platinum and respond motor Short p So the latest version is version o eight that means we had version o five during the last working group meeting on in. One fifteen So we meanwhile had a couple of updates. As you can see here, so the main changes from version of five six square. This doesn't work. Nothing spectacular. So one thing was we address the open issue and get up. So I always refer to the issues that are stated and github up. Number sixty seven so that was essentially to shorten to touch endpoints we had some lengthy names for the pledge endpoints and we shortened them down to better prepare for constrained deployments. We we kept the the longer names for the registrar so far. But got some some further feedback during the working group last call to also shorten so those names and and get back to to some kind of longer more expressive names. For for the short pledged endpoints right now we have just two letters, and there was a proposal to go for four letters. We also included a table for the new endpoints that I've subscribed in section five point three turbo better overview there. And then based on version o five, we the the review from the security directorate, which mainly editorial improvements that have been incorporated and then some further review comments from the iot"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "iot direct word early review and we got some some have feedback there regarding return counts for the. Time in another object clarification. And also some hints regarding the use of norma language All of those were incorporated and let to version o six. And then based on version o six, which is on the next slide. We had two further updates. Right? So that was working group last call. So the working group last call resulted on one hand and the removal of any of the young definitions that contained and Keep urine. So in P, we have some... We we define some enhancements to the voucher. Regarding specific data that we need for the exchange between the pledge agent the register agents. Sorry, the pledge and the register. So all of those enhancement and the young definition including the three diagrams were removed and there there are all contained in Rf eighty three sixty six please. To have document that basically defines a complete young definition for the voucher. We also meanwhile so issues just discovered during the working group last call. We still have some open issues I put them on the next two slides. Those open issues are also listed on the market department. We are passing and resolving them there. Then we had from the review which was it's just documented in full request number eighty five And Yep. You see the open issues, which are collected after working group plus call. Thanks again to to dollars for the. We we've got a lot of comments and I'm currently about to incorporate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "the more easy ones which are editorial improvements, spectral improvements and we told us discovered some things and challenge us regarding certain design decisions and this is currently being sorted out. In the or in the design t meetings which happened on tuesday every tuesday. So I I tried to cluster those issues here. So we have discovery related should set relate to the discovery of the register in Bruce year so we discussed about using given as of speed versus text parameters and promise I should remind you if you have got some answers from the Dns working group regarding the usage of Uni subtype, Not quite sure if you guys have chance. Yeah. The the the the sometimes I haven't figured out best address. I was I had sent off and and and put in an issue for for for the other point of the scalability of the replies. But yeah, the subtype types, Need to find someone and otherwise, send it also to the mail. Unfortunately, Had a conflict during the working group meeting. But yeah, I'll be on it. Okay. Perfect. Thank you. So then we also discussed all there's a further open issue regarding touch discovery using grass had some discussion on the on the Github already was Brian regarding that So the the status currently is that we would refer to to grasp But don't specify it as part of the draft. Then the next cluster is regarding the interaction between the collections, the red bull notebook. You jump back to the slip before. Thank you. The next clusters regarding the interaction between the collections the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "agent and later on the the infrastructure It's... So those points essentially go into the direction of better motivating the usage of agent sign data. To enable the authentication and all the tracking which agent is actually good bootstrapping a specific clutch. Which can be done by the registrar. Then we had some some comments that also related to the interaction between pledged and register agent that relate the fact that we are not relying on the underlying secure transport or not on or not not... Yeah relying on. On in underlying secure transport for instance, tls and that is mainly because that the touch certificate can't be used as a tls server certificate. So the the Id certificate that needs some more explanation in the the graph and also regarding available information about the fletcher on the registration. So we had some discussions if the serial number loads efficient or of the pledge a it's the register agent. Needs also the A certificate to do some first step validation of side if Id. That he receives from the the pledge Okay. So then we can jump to the next slide So then the next cluster of open issues relates to the interaction between the register agent and the registrar. So what what we have designed so far in in Bruce gears that there is some assumption that the register is able to identify if the Tls connection was authenticated from the client side using an rfid id certificate or an L certificate. So that is currently for the initial good bootstrapping the main distinction between is the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "It's the other site a register agent or is pledge that tries to open a connection towards the register. So Therefore, we we had some discussion on or we have discussion of the use of register endpoints. To distinguish between responder mode and initiate a mode So that is two number number eighty six is relating to the recognition based on the credential So from the feedback that we got paula us at least, was not quite happy with the explanation we had. So we need to improve the text. And also to explain the necessity for new register enrollment endpoint. That was also one challenge that we got because we decided to define an own endpoint for the for the enrollment. On the registrar for that additionally reps lecture enrollment request So Bruce is using peak ten and Bruce here Is using and additionally signature re you time. And for that one, we defined an own endpoint an alternative could have been to basically makes identification based on the media type and due utilize the endpoint that we had we decided during the the design of bruce against sir because we didn't want to to enhance Est as it is used so far, with that ripped rep peak ton approach because that would go more into the direction of full C But what we are doing is not for C. It's just the simply wrapping of the attendant that was one of the reason to come up with an own point to look provide a a wrong view on the Point."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "This is something that need some some further discussion and probably some better explanation of the broth. So then we had also the the last cluster here relates to about request and voucher itself So paula us challenge the the naming that we had for agent proximity versus agent and bite. So we picked agent proximity here because we wanted to express the latch is in the proximity of a specific registration versus the register proximity that we get in Bruce in in b So Bruce usage uses just the proximity to state that pledge was in direct contact with the registrar and we wanted to avoid that by introducing agent proximity to underline the the pledge was not in direct contact but was provided with voucher beyond agent. So that is an old issue where we still have some some discussion and also the last one number ninety we defined second signature for the voucher, to allow the pledge to do the verification that the registrar and procession of of the private key was the certificate that he got via the register agent. Otherwise, the pledge wouldn't have any proof that's the registrar and professionals of private key So this concept essentially Symbols what we have as of a provisional except in b key. And we basically took that concept over to Bruce. Based on the signatures channels that additional signature of the voucher. So that may also need some some further of text for explanation. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "So next steps for P are essentially to address open issues, all of them as I as showed before, we have some some further things. During the the shepherd review, we got the request to to some restructuring of section five and section section six to better distinguish between what is actual call flow and what is definition of the different objects that are being exchanged. That could be addressed after we address the the open issues and also editorial improvements, so we have a step approach there. To make it better Yeah. Track bullet visible is what we changed on the drop. So again, here in top testing with as welcome. There are proof of concept implementations available of all of the different components defined in P and J aws. So if there was any interest get in touch with us and we can set up the proof of concept or talk testing. So next step seven yeah. Yep. Are all the Plc implementations open source are also some commercials there. There Well, that's a good question. So so the... We we have some some No no. It's not open source yet. We have some internal implementations where we have some discussions to release this open source. And we have a currently, we have the implementation from from us I think Michael might also work on an implementation No. Good. So you're you don't have a plan to make them open costs yet. Consideration Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "Fine. So that's essentially. So there any question. I'm happy to take them. Not fine. I? Understand there are questions on. So you're fine. Okay. Okay. In case there there are any questions we can clarify that all the mailing list or or also over the discussions that we from we should be on Bruce. Perfect. So is that you again in the role of David? Bigger? Right. So I can wear my other hit or Correct. You. You. So this one is an update on Ru Aes, so alternative enrollment protocols support and growth. It's... The draft is currently in version o four you can plus you, you can jump to the next slide. So the changes since One fifteen essentially, we got a early review on the draft version of three. By barr. And the outcome was to clarify some of the terminology that we use and also norma of requirements to strengthen them in and the description We also enhance security considerations with an additional paragraph for the use of Tls for C p So that was the outcome of the of the early review here. And then we had some further internal reviews and also suggestion from others."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:04",
    "text": "Which led to a significant reduction of the introduction motivation from of of Ro ae so that lighten the reading there. We also had we clarified that the pledge register communication. Not restricted to using Tls. Maybe detailed as for constraint, but essentially as B ae is is providing the opportunity to utilize course and using that specifically on the base of lightweight C p we do not really neat the tls connection there, but we rely on it to be in line with the Gu approach. One of. But set there is no change necessary if we switch to constraint key by simply using pto on the knees. It was also clarified that the register must be in the loop regarding the solutions. For you know, granting an lf in the same way as it is done in in b. The reason for that was since Bruce ae utilizing the C p approach. Provides yeah. Self contained signed objects. They can be evaluated and also raised on the registered itself if it x s an Ra, or they can also be additionally also raised in the back end is the register xs l. Local registration it's authority and may not fully grant the Lf issuing. So that was clarified We also clarified that ae essentially replaces section five point six in Bruce key, so that is essentially the the Es section. Except for the enrollment status telemetry telemetry which is described in five nine four in Bruce. Ro"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:05",
    "text": "because that we we still use the enrollment status telemetry and ae. Because wondering. Then We also underline that if end authentication is required across the the register itself. Then the enrollment protocol that is used between the registrar and the pledge should be the same as the one that is used upstream to basically convey the signature rep authenticated object it's been useful during enrollment. To enable the to back Pk tours or or authenticate also rise the request. Then we also removed the appendix a which wasn't included for using Est for certificate enrollment as assist is already described and specified and itself so there was bone need seen to further provide the description. Yeah. To the relevant points are integrated in the supported scenario section and ae those those were the the latest changes in there And based on on those changes, we went to working group last call and the document is still in working group last call. So that means we are waiting for for feedback from there. So what we did what we've done since four f one fifteen was to finalize the proof of concept implementation of Ru ae based on lightweight C p working group done, working group review was done, but Michael thanks to that one. And the shepherd review was done by you told us. Also thank you for that one. Review has been incorporated as set and the working group plus call us ongoing. So we're currently the next steps would gonna be the final the document depending on the working group class call outcome and to up right up."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:05",
    "text": "So I believe the working group that call and sometime next week. Right. I think it that started on the preferred card. Yeah. It's running so Yep. Okay. Christina. I'm sorry? No. Good. Thank you. And now we think on eighty three sixty six piece. This Michael. I wanna run the lights or Yeah. I wanna run the slides. If you can give me Open. Ask the permission to me. Alright I can take them or I can put the slides up myself. It should be able to do it ourselves. There we go. Oh, apparently, I can pick them myself. Go. Share. Yeah. Which. Yeah How you go? Good. Hi. So eighty three sixty six bi after bunch of quiet on what we gonna do. We're back add it and we adopted it what last year. Thinking that we're gonna go to Internet status. So that was the plan before. We thought we're gonna go to Internet standard standard. And all we needed to do is fix a couple of pieces in there to allow a e. I think it was No. P to say to have an alternate proximity status assertion status"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "and we included an a young module that would be ai maintained. And that was basically it. All we're gonna do And then we had some other discussions about whether we should do some other things about this. So then what happened? Well, This is what we were doing before. We have this augment process We created eighty three sixty six eighty nine ninety five augmented it create the voucher request and we had these two objects that everyone was pretty happy about. Okay? So then we did this other thing. Right? We then augmented those things may please select. Yeah. Your Mic is on. Then we did this other things to create P and P search request. There. And then we thought okay, let's make the constraint voucher. And I asked the question last... I don't know last summer or ish. Well, what if I had a constrained P voucher? How would that work? Alright? Would I just keep using augment. And what would we do with that? And disaster. So for those of you are not intimately familiar with yang. I I recommend it instead of various recreational drugs. But I'm gonna be talking about this. Apparently, I get a few minutes in net mod on Friday, because I think this is kind of bit of a disaster to me. So way augment works is that actually copies essentially a copy of of one content grouping into another. So that's the pink park. To start with. And so we actually copied it into the v request and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "you can see that constrained virtual request has a copy of the V request for contains a copy of the voucher inside of the smaller pink things if your eyes are really good. And when you build the constraint P voucher or the constraint P voucher request, I didn't draw it all out. Then you wind up with two bits of the pink part. And ping and other tools rightly say, Well, hang on here. This is located, Why have you got two of these? This is wrong. Initially actually the bug just would overwrite one with the other. And we had been issues with sid allocations and would it keep allocating new things and it just didn't work. So that was kind of the question of well, did we do this wrong before we continue should we figure out if there's a better way to do this. So one of the things you may know is that Yang data has been replace with this Structure. I think that's eighty seven ninety one instead of seventy eighty four or something like that. And so we try doing that. Okay. So one of the other interesting things that you do this is that you wind up actually with a new Sid file. Now when we did the sid stuff in the constrained voucher, we were not too surprised that the constrained v had one sit allocation. And because trained voucher request had a different set allocation even though they both have an expires on field for instance, those were given different sid values. And that wasn't too surprising in hindsight, actually should have been. It should been like, well, hang on. That's actually augmented this other thing shouldn't have the original sid value from the voucher. It's the same essential field. And the answers it did not. And so if you were to go ahead and somehow make the constraint P voucher to work with augment, you would get another set allocation which act what that means is that each time you create a new colored box, you're actually creating a new kind of object And you see this at the Jason serial civilization and you you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "you see this in the said space. So actually, you're not just extending an existing object with additional fields you're actually creating entirely new objects. And initially that wasn't obvious, I think because just look looking at the sid things in the stack. You'd asked me twenty eighteen, what I what to do and you'd said I have Cd l. I would have said well, we're just gonna do the Cbd out is exactly what we want, which allows a subsequent documents to extend through plugins ins, the the existing content. So what if we go back and we use s structure and we don't we don't use Augment, but we create grouping And so the idea as we create these in this case I've created four different structures, which can be in four different documents. And that when I'm ready to create my voucher, I just import that pink part into it. When I'm ready to create the voucher request, well, I an import a pink part and a a red part and there's slightly different queues, but you probably can't see that. I can't see that on my screen anymore. And of course, so the next step is okay, so I want appear and voucher request okay. So I just port the pink part, the red part and the green part. And Now I'm not getting multiple copies of it because I'm I'm doing it directly, and it can continue on. I can import the pink part the the the red part and the blue part, and does that do? I mean, I can import all of them and kind the constraint P voucher isn't that great. Okay. So that's that's works well at the yang level. At the sid level, There's two problems. With two us. First of all, it turns out that the new voucher we've created is not compatible with the one that we had. That's should be something that Yang would tell us Unfortunately, there are bugs in that mean that I can't even get run on the original code let alone the new one or to show that the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "the contents of the original document is still possible by the new one. And but looking at what I see that my intuition is no. It just it's a different object that we created with the structure. The other interesting thing is that with these pink blue and green components, you actually wind up with another layer of d in the serial json. So you actually get something very different and you get a different structure as well. Out of that whole thing. So when we try to serial all this to sea more using sids, we actually wind up with again, four or five different objects when what we wanted was maybe at most two objects that are extend. We're actually getting no kind of... We're not getting any additional code savings we're not reusing the same code. And strictly speaking, we should be real you said numbers and, you know, parsing them as new structures and That's essentially I think not what we're looking for. We we're looking for a single object that has some stuff and you have certain fields which are mandatory in certain fields, which are not. So what do we do? We removed all the yang from all the other documents. We stuffed it in Rf c eighty three sixty six bi. As a revision to the object that we had there before. We pulled in the voucher request in there as a signal augment to it and put everything that we needed from all the other documents in it. We remove this types main maintained assertion because we don't need it. Okay? And in fact, we're gonna have to, lies this document whenever we have a major change of what's going on. And that's just the where the yang works. And if you look at some of the other documents, for instance, the saying Sa I documents that went through ops G."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "They have a document that says this is how it all works, and then they have a short and sweet document that says here's the yang module with the expectation that they're gonna gonna revise the and replace the yang module. I guess, on a regular basis there. So my question is, was another path that we missed because I've really posted a lot about this over the last six or ten months. I've gotten some feedback from the net mods space. Unfortunately, in some cases the same person I've got in contradictory statements to the fact of the feature you're looking for does not exist in yang. And then a couple weeks later, well why didn't you just do it this way? And the answer is because the feature we why does not exist in yang. So a little bit frustrating that way. I would like to have more review and more feedback from them and I'm hoping to... I'm gonna run these slides on Friday as well and maybe I'll get some more thing. But that's where we are now. As far as I can see, we're gonna have to write this document as proposed standard. We don't get to go the Internet standard immediately. Maybe in two years a friendly Would advance it. But there's enough new stuff in there that we don't have just evidence for that. It's certainly not. Certainly not as a simple a thing. So I hope I in time here. And questions. Alternate ideas. The room does not have a lot of the yang people in it. I noticed I look through the list, but As. Yep. I'm joining in here because the slide says discussion. So I think we have now the right idea to be honest so directed to do it the way you proposed. I also feel like this has been a long time and we've been"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "know, kind of lost in the fields for quite a few months and and And but again, I think we're finally you know, where we need to be on this. So so I don't I don't know that your actual yang that you've got here I can try and take a look and see we're doing. But if the accident some net monitor, there's no than that I'm sure that right. It is worth saying when you to first things are objects in yang. Yang deal objects. So that might be sort of disconnect effectively the yang like a tree tree of data, and you can create new stuff in that tree can't have, like, floating bumps and blobs of data. The way in Jan you'd normally represent that is by using leaf f to to the one entry in the trees, when wife's solving it it. Another one is like when statements and offshore stuff. Choice same so we're not doing Rpc. Right? So you know we were led down the yang path in twenty seventeen eighteen, it looked like a good path with yang rest and that was experimental time. And my advice is to the next group is don't go here. Right? One of the other things we could do is rewrite it all in Cd l at this point. Would not be hard to do. And it would let us do what we want. I don't feel like I'm quite ready to let go. Of the yang. But you know, we could go that direction if the working group thought it was simpler. We could do that next week instead of this week as well. I don't think it matters much. Yeah. I can't comment to that I don't know I don't know if issues she's are hitting yes, sir. Okay. Maybe from side to to to finalize that sentence if If you have an idea, please take it somewhere else because I think we've spent so much time on this already. So if any of the young people think there is a better solution, I would be happy to say that we're we would love to wait them right a draft about how to do this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "up better, and we'll be happy to review the draft, but unless then somebody else shows how to to implement that draft, I think this this is the right way? Well, ultimately, right, we just want our in coat serial sea bar and serial Jason to look the same. And you know, as long as that's the case, we won't haven't broken any bits on the wire. Just a question of whether we have is the same amount of of mechanism to evaluate and document it. Right? That's really the the power. Here. Okay. Okay. Thank you very much. All that Right hopefully, that's that's the end of it. Okay. You wanna sit or stand up? Right. In one case, I have to run your slides, so whatever you like on. This one should be quick. This you the update for are draft to the generic of deployment and management need for resource placed to network services. We have done a massive update last time before the of one hundred fifteen and large or we be saved since long way, it have the content change updates the resource management objectives here go to with city syntax"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:04",
    "text": "which mostly come by brand. I also made some changes in limited negligence. Here's what's the date. We update the Network service yeah and be of the range of each service type and the source Id, the the the data type of it also date run for the so lifetime. In second, also give example for the service tag and the type of the service tag. We're also cars they resource requirements pair. Give a value for value and also the resource type and the the type of value who So basically that's make us company always say, cto some syntax. Not all The major change we have. The order links the draft is stable enough, since the major update last November, so that's already easier for five months and we do receive some quality reviews. Know Of course, we welcome more reviews and other songs after is ready for the working group for last school. And that's always the chance to have more reviews during the working group call. And I believe you are the document. Right. I was just in my confused also I think I'm on the sure, that's the one. This is the one."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "Yes. Okay Okay. So we we can have more discussing in man and we're ready for working afterwards. Any more questions? Three two. One. Cool. Okay. That's quick. As I planned. Yes. Why we would you can get bit longer time. Still me. This is another draft to which already adopt the working group for a long time, to sit there for no progress for long time already. And but just time kicked up to, you know, largely rewrite it and also including the struck restructure to come in a little bit. You can see how much they change we already down. We refine the tracked and also introduction. We new use case, smart home smart home use case, we integrate technical analysis into for for analysis of information distribution mode and the requirements way"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "out the analysis of it. And Korea, Ka point out the gap of current grasp verticals that motivated us to do the extension we are find the easy chapter five and we also add change the previous load have session to be the position to have loads. It clearly described how to use the newly defined extensions to meet requirements we got from the chapter four. I we also define the text and general format. Including the reference correcting requirement negative text and grammar arrows also many ethical changes. Will removed opening initial records from Up because we almost address of them. Of course, we still have new so it shows new from the new comments. Yeah. Here is small details what we have down. In the obstruct way emphasized the document and unnecessary be more to see the autonomic networks. And you order to effective about there own synchronized. Model information. Distribution models. Will lead to to say new grasp extensions. We also this described say chris in behalf notes on progress. Yeah. Where go. Move the hey."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:04",
    "text": "Technical, which was part of the introduction into the chapter full. And for the chapter show, the use case. We kept three point one service based architecture in three. But to way emphasized there. It's information must be restored first. And after that whenever the information is request, it can be did you for properly to the request network function because that's one of them major we it to to new grasp extension. We'll also add the smart home just use case. The multiple devices collaboration needed It means a multiple has worked together to complete a service. The distributed shirt shared objects allow centralization of states or digital contents between two more devices. And money on line this information that would be used to multiple times should be start with you this smart home and we achieved later on demand. So the devices must be able to distribute your the information to their next here. Receivers. That's the selected flooding where newly defined and support document."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "And we also analysis information distributing models from the time perspective way information distribution behavior into and and smart. Also we can the service agent level specific requirements of this me into four categories. Non communication intervals and come interesting distribution and and update. For all, information distribution mode Most of instant north. If model has already been supported by the current grasp already but some. Information history approaching notes did new functions queues to be support. In publishing for retrieval model, information needs to be stored and distribute on demand. Additionally the solution is also needed to go store information update with information from march sources. This is order change when might in the update no we actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "according to the technical requirements who define the new grasp extension first. We have several new components for the information distribution. Long way in next chapter away, describe how process behaviors economic loads to use those components. Most of all we define selective flooding grasp. It's setting information with content criteria. And that's keeps. Much condition is selective flooding option which defined in the second five two. And the ak would take according into this option And Let hammer this described chapters six. Also they see q. Which he helps the As to publish information to network. And subs subscribe unsubscribe to interested information in us sentiment note center sync nurse scenarios, exchanging to support information published key subscribe and correction grasp at this transcribed in five."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "And it also support the events per utilization. In total, we also refined the text and general format including the reference correction, the current language text grammar and many editorial changes. We resort it out today the current language shows masks sur document. The extension sixteen and also the not behavior. So that gives it clear instruction for the in implement cars you know, how to how to do well different use or different. The company records security removed from appendix. We still have received the comments. We are next step we'll update the doctor to based on the comments and the remarks. Makes the use case solid. Thanks Michael who pointed out to the can't description of the use case you're still a little bit loose. It have not, you enough to support the technical requirements we are we are chapter full. Yeah. And those use cases should have to into the technical requirements. And we have the implementation plan to implement the new grasp extension that you find the in two five. But to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:03",
    "text": "we we hope we can't make it open source. But giving the by the students I need to work out the arm university policy on open source first. And also Brian, just he are even taking you based on perez. You know, grasp implementation. So Brent, Let we... That's he's open source license is different from the general license. So we also need to check out what's the different and what maybe, you know, able to accept by hey university watch the impact of the open source noises it is. And... Yeah. That's the all They have done. It's massive rewrite this time. So we really need more reviews, know, all reviews and comments up appreciate We, hope we can you know, make a stable brushing through the this procedure. Maybe be stable enough in November? Okay. Got it. Thank you very much. Question. Let's see. Here. Once twice Yep."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "Number eight, please get to the microphone. Oh you want to share the? Michael. Yep. Okay. Yours I should start the slides myself. Okay. To to do What am I talking about this one? Yeah. Saw it. Okay. Good. Hi again. So I'm gonna talk about... Well, there's three documents, but with this working group only really has to deal with two of them. And So as we were doing some of the intro work a few years ago. One of the things that became clear to me is that there were choices that I was making in my implementation which were not necessarily supported by the documents In particular, there were restrictions that I didn't know whether I could make. On whether they would work or not. That other implementations might have a much harder time dealing with particularly around For instance, choice of certificates and private keys and availability of them at which machines have them and how things go. So for instance, B in its a Nasa connection encourages you to use a client side certificate on the registrar. And the question is whether that key has some relationship to the key that is used to sign the registrar our voucher request. And so what happened is that I wrote two documents. This is one called registrar considerations. And mass considerations. They both had a fair bit of coat of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "of texting in them about Pk and how the Pk work and how the private keys are stored. And ultimately, that document was split off into document, which has now become adopted by the t two t r g in the Ir f as a taxonomy manufacturer installed anchors. I gotta put the draft name there, but it's it's on this last url all if you're looking for it. So that happened last year and these other documents got some minor bits of update and about what they but their content is. And some minor rewriting to remove the text that was moved to the document. And they need some more a little more tweaking some documents have published and other things like that. So fundamentally, there's two pieces of advice if you're building a using b key and whether using with an Acp or not. And this has to do with how you're going to manage your Pk I and what is an appropriate level of complexity of your Pk I. And you need to fundamentally keep track of a number of public keys and private keys and you need to keep them around order to to be able to sign vouchers that your devices we validate And there's a bunch of different ways of of of dealing with this problem and this document are about that. So for instance, just gonna go on here. And come back to that. So for instance, you could build your registrar as a single monolithic process with a single key running on a single machine. And I've done that. And it works works reasonably well. And then you can have the access to the private key in any place you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "to have it is not a problem. Or you can build it as your framework that scales to potentially thousands or millions of connections and the front part of that that talks to the The mass might be running on one set of machines in internet connected place. Well, the pieces that do the onboarding are part of your private network, maybe are connected only to the front end only through the database and you use I don't know database triggers or something else like this. To pass data back and forth and that the voucher when you go and get it comes back into the database sent back out that way. So there's a number of different things, but they do have an impact as to number of things that we tried to get right in more constrained voucher than other things. So for instance, the private key. I don't know if you can see my mouse moving or not. Does that work? No. Doesn't work. No. Yeah. So the bottom part the pledge interface b is t. So for instance, it may use one set of private keys. In fact it may be replicated in each one have a separate key pair. All signed by the same C. And that is gonna be a different from the key that this mass client can use as its client side certificate. So it's important And and in writing this document and putting this down, we actually got a bunch of things in there and there were some actually last some of those last minute changes to eight nine nine five, actually were caused by this document being written. To say, oh, no. No. You you need to check that they're the same C and d rather than the same public key because they could be in fact, different things. So there's a lot of non norma advice. So on the mass side, know, there's a bunch of different ways of doing things. So for instance, you could have a a a two tier Pk I, which this other document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:03",
    "text": "defines that how to count them. And I don't think it anyone's ever to defined that. And you could decide to create a new I have Id signing key every morning when the factory powers on. And throw it away at the end of the day, and that would be perfectly reasonable thing. Because it's signed by a C. And then you can decide, well I'm gonna have the the voucher sign key could be and a completely separate Pk or could be the same Pk I, and there are some decisions both ways that there's So this is really about about that. And I just cover that already for that point. And part of the key things is you can't just throw your public keys away because you have to install them in your in your pledge device so that they can actually validate the vouchers. And so if you lose access to that private key that lets you sign vouchers, then you're essentially looking at physical recall of every device because you're probably gonna have to go and reinstall the truck interest and you won't actually have any trust that you could use to do that. So that's a pretty big deal and you might wanna think very carefully but about value of that key and this other document over in t two rg deals with some of the concerns about how you would document those parts. So last major revision was, like, one seven. I think I've kept it live, you know, little things. And there's some more small edits. There. We question? Yeah. Of course anywhere. So is there anything where the stuff about the vouchers can be stolen from similar best practices for C a certificate, private keys, for example? This is sounds very"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "So there was one discussion for instance at one point, we had a conversation that you might steal the voucher from a low value vehicle, and use it to onboard a really high value vehicle for instance, because they're part of the same Tk I and Is that what you're talking about? No. No. I I I meant that what what you were saying about maintenance of private keys for signing vouchers doesn't seem to be dissimilar from, you know, keeping track of private keys for Cas. And so is... Sure. But it's possible it's possible to to build a C, right, that has all of its major private stuff in an offline Hs. And that you regularly you know, do the sneaker net to to and from there. That's less less easy or takes more some planning to do with the voucher because The device is gonna onboard sometime in the next ten years. And you need to make sure that you can sign the voucher with a key that that device that may have been in the warehouse for many years can still validate. So either that means you're putting more P I processing into your pledge which is fine. It's a decision, or you have to keep a more keys around. You could, for instance, install a a new voucher verification key Right? Every everyday with a new one in. Then you just keep the all around. Right? Forever. Or until you've onboard them all. So but those are those two got vastly different decisions with very different operational results. Answer your question? Did I miss it? No. It was just in in terms of it it it would always be good to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "distinguished in the explanation, things that are the same where you can leverage existing procedures, Bc for Cas and where they would differ. Alright? So they're just structurally within the text. Yeah. So that's that's why the document... A bunch of tax went over to t two g because in many cases their work good ways of even explaining if you were to write a Bc what would the What would the set of criteria be? How would you name them consistently? And and then we get into that that document goes into we get into the question, and I'll talk about within in the next presentation too a talk that in some cases, it's very, very hard get manufacturing entities to disclose what they actually do on the manufacturing floor to secure the things that you are talking about because they... There's like, sixteen Nda that they won't even exist. So that's the kind of the the high level purpose of these documents is to give people building that kind of thing, something they can refer to and say this document provides a you know, a peach version and Apple version and a strawberry version, and they can say, and I like to Strawberry one, please match mister manufacturer and here here's the criteria that makes strawberry in not peach. So I don't know if we should publish these documents as Rf. I don't know that they... That they're... That it's worthwhile doing that. You might wanna to adopt them we might wanna talk a lot more about their content I haven't talked a lot about the content up to now. But I I I think there's some value in having a wider discussion or a document that says something like this. I just don't know if if in the end they're worth publishing at the end of the day, they may... It may just be that these are really good places"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:04",
    "text": "to keep some text. And I wanted to bring them back to the working group to remind them they they still exist. Well, So in the introduction is there a good way to know scare adopters of any of these cruise key solutions that we have to... If you don't read and understand what's in this document all hell will break loose in your deployment. That's that's a little bit about it. Right? So what's what's the biggest risk that that can be avoided when you know, doing what the draft says. Correctly. Important. Right? Yeah. I think that the value in publishing this is is that It becomes a... Just give me like, one I you know, new manufacturer comes along it says just give me one that looks exactly like the one that you did last and here's the... Here's the criteria for it. Okay? And because it's not under ninety eight, it's a public document, they can actually then then, you know, talk about this. And then one of I said, the problem is most of these manufacturing places they they... Nobody wants to talk about like, for instance, how many zeke... How many shares they've split their private key into. Who who who who can be who can be blackmail into revealing a private key or something like that. Right? And but those aren't those are real issues that they need to decide. You know, what is the what is their bus count? For their P. That is how many people if they die, you don't have enough passwords to unlock it. You think that's maybe crazy, but you know, we do have places that are subject to you know, tornadoes or pandemics or things like this. And so those could happen things could happen and we do expect these devices to be board for, you know, a decade or more."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:07",
    "text": "Any any questions from the group? I think I have the next slot as well. Right? Any more questions? Before we move on? Alright. My imagination every we ten minutes a ahead it? Oh, there's stefan in the queue. Please go ahead. Yep maybe just my view on the documents. I think those publishing post as operational considerations would be the you have from my understanding because of people that are deploying things like boo key or such they need to be aware of those issues. And I think to have a document. This the information on Rf would be would be perfect way forward to basically make them aware that they're issues exist that that not only relate to the technology described in the different bruce key documents, but relate more to the process of handling those information at the at the vendor side the manufacturer side and also that at the operator side for a registered consideration document in then. So from from like understanding it would be good to Publish. Yeah. And we, you know, the Ihs has published documents about you name server key operations and things like that and they're very you know, there's similar things, but but we haven't we haven't they they tend to be more prescriptive. And this these documents at this point are these are... These are some ways that you can do things. Without necessarily saying which is the right way. But, you know, and the registrar considerations document, I said, you know, the said, you know, if you're building a registrar for use in a a home, then you probably don't need a two tier Pk I. You'd probably just zero is enough. Right?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "Yep. And That's good. Oh we're an so, you know, I don't think we have issue of having another informational operational document when we have a clear, you know, agreement on the value proposal of it. Right? An information documents fine. I think the one question I have is and actually for lots of presentations here that doesn't seem to be many sort of questions or people asking questions. So I'm I'm so worried about how much engagement there is in terms of the work or whether there's purchase just particular people presenting the address they're working on. In a group, and there's not much cohesion between the other people that they all collect be working together towards common goals. So... And and one thing that I don't know either don't go to the Regular weekly meeting. So I don't know how many... What what things have been discussed there and what progress is happening within that forum that means that it doesn't get discussed here, but there is all lack of energy here that worries me. It's not... Not the answer to this, but in terms of with the what you would like to consider adopting this. This is much is, maybe just to comment to give you some feedback here. So you might have seen my name as a shepard there. So I'm rather new to this group. I some work into understanding, of course the documents. I'm supposed to work on. So there I'm rather focused and know what's going on. Some other documents or updates here, I must say was more over overwhelmed of the speed here. So I I don't know. There was so much I tried to look up some things, and I couldn't formulate any questions in my head. So there were a bunch of those. And then there were some topics for instance, I personally... I don't know where grasp is used what is the purpose of it, so it's a whole block of work inside this working group where"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:02",
    "text": "I I'm lost. So there are some parts where they definitely interest and submit this being overwhelmed And then some parts here, they a bit specialized maybe, I don't know I cannot comment on this just to maybe give you some some feedback. Maybe to to go back to this here for for the sake of it. So I would also like see this published because this is really interesting knowledge and people need to notice so Yeah. I I will support this Any anybody else? Alright. Oh, then let's move on to the next stop. Number nine. Flights. I guess. There are slides. Okay. Yeah. There are slides. Okay. There we go. I wanted to... Yeah, It relate because I thought I would have a demo slide. So... Okay. As only works if we test it. Right? So we had a I think of on and off fairly fruitful inter interrupt testing history. And And I guess I would say it's very hard I think to work in the Hack on on the weekend. There's just a lot of things that take more than three hours to fix. And you know, the Hack is often very distracting and things like that ironically, I think we did better doing inter online inter testing during the pandemic. When the Hack fund became a week long event. Week before Have. So particularly one zero eight one zero nine without very much was the case that was the summer and fall of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:02",
    "text": "two thousand twenty. And we did a lot of that over the Internet with using connectivity, there's some with... We use the was it called the gather town to to meet And But you know, that was a lot of pledged to registrar and register a masa and we, you know, discovered some things. Lots of interesting stuff. We didn't do anything with grass. We did no joint proxies and we did no Md s. And we didn't do that because they all require that we essentially be on the same layer too. To to just do discovery And what I noticed is that a fair bit of a new enthusiasm for doing this kind of died off in twenty two was very difficult. I think to organize and we we do have one of our members who really did plea that he really was retired now and he really didn't wanna do this anymore. So We've had this thing starting. I think it's around one zero four. The It knot team started offering an L two vpn service originally it was on Raspberry pies. You'd run a custom image that they would build for you. And when you connected to it, you would get you get an Es Id and an even in eddie rome and Etf nat sixty four, you get all of the them visible. Confused the confused my neighbor who is a professor University, why she had Eddie rome at home. And you know, config... It hasn't been turned off really. And then in twenty twenty one, they moved from Raspberry pi to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "two part micro techs which are go for about nineteen euros each and a few us got that working, and we got it working just in time for it to die. So he... Like, just barely got enough to go, and then we we didn't do it. So I've had a lot of conversations with Charles E and some of the not team I forgot Sean, one of names and they've done a really, really good you know, made a big attempt to figure out how to do this and how to make things go. And what do we need versus what do other people need? And one of the constraints that we found was that essentially, the equipment that they use gets packed up ten to fifteen days before the meeting it's shipped to the meeting. And then it's you know, then it dies after the meeting. And then it's like a month before it gets taken out of the boxes. And then happening again. So ironically and exactly the time when we have the energy in focus to actually, you know, do some work in the week or weeks before the is exactly when we can't we can't use it. And So they... You know, there's been a number of, like, we're gonna... We're gonna fix this. We're gonna fix this we're gonna fix this, but it didn't it didn't happen. In one case we lost they lost one of their core people to apparently setting up all the Covid testing booths, the Wi For the Covid testing boots all over Germany, right that clearly was way more important than our hack Vpn kind of thing if if you've been in Germany and gone for a test you'll discover that they have their own access point there, specifically so that you can sign up for the test at that point. There So there's like a hundred third party non standard, not Rc fee solutions out there. I heard a zero tier couple months ago"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "couple people liked it. It seems to be a layer too, and it was the ported on the micro boxes that a bunch of us already have. Seems to see some high Udp port numbers. It doesn't get through a lot of firewalls as a result some kind of a mesh network. And the first twenty five nodes are free. I put one up And essentially, that's what I'm proposing is that, you know, we'll do that. And if we get to twenty five nodes we have to pay beyond that. That is such a good problem to have that you know what? I we'll I'll figure it out it's not that expensive. I think it's, like five dollars a month for another twenty five. So so I didn't wanna put the network Id to join. But if you know the network Id, you're in, its security is questionable to do this. One of the interesting things is that we actually don't need connectivity because because we're quite happy with for doing onboarding tests. We're quite happy to simulate the network. That doesn't have any connectivity which is exactly the whole point of the joint proxy. So at least some of us have join proxies onto this network to connect to or our registrar right on the network to do what's going on. And in some ways, it's good that there is nothing, but I've actually set some things up so we can have some connectivity if we really want. And so I'm suggesting that I don't know exactly what format and that's one of the questions I'm asking. The group is, you know, do... Does the week before Ihs worked? Does a week after Work usually people go in vacations. It's terrible. Should it be completely divorced from any schedule at all. It should just be up. I mean, it can just be up. That's not a problem, but But what I... What what I think we experienced is that it was very valuable that we are able to check in several at least once a day for several days so that we can actually have an iteration of working on something and debugging it then getting feedback particularly with time zones and things like that. I stop here. I have two slides and there's any thoughts or questions, but then I have a a related, but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "slightly unrelated topic. Let's. Yeah. I think it's Michael for writing overview. So I think in terms of timing, this could be happening and at time. Think it does need to necessarily be in sync with meeting schedule. If you can test remotely. So I actually had a long period where I just kept my register a last for Well, all the time, basically, accessible over the internet So I think that it's Okay? I don't know how how many people we still have that are interested this. So at some point, we got an extra person in, well and didn't hear much get. Once again, and page dropped out Not sure how how many we still have that are interest in his work. So anybody locally here to to reach out to to to to get a rundown of of setting this thing up here. On your system, there. So so my notion is that someone could show up with the Hack and you know, with the somewhat blessing of the knock. I think they were quite happy about that. Just know. I mean table. I I I'd be interested to set something up. I just would love. If there's somebody local to talk to otherwise we can talk about in one of the ru meetings. But if there's somebody in the knock or, so you can recommend to reach out to I don't think anyone particularly knows that that the or any other system. Maybe system I don't know that they do. It was relatively easy to do. I think the the biggest obstacles maybe that you need to Yes. So of course, some Bruce key related software that you want to have tested. So that's most of the work I think are right note setting this out"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:04",
    "text": "And and is a little bit it's the wiring on the the downstream of the thing. Right? You have if you you've got you've gotta to figure out how you're gonna like, you can't just you don't just wire it into your home network and go, that won't work. Right? You you have to to think, okay. I need to to plumb this into a different a different network, a different switch you know, into Vms on a different virtual port or something like that. And, you know, that's the kind of thing that is very specific to your environment, but, you know, we can talk about it. It's fine. I don't mind Okay. Okay. So let me just continue on related. So my aside has a question? Yeah. Server always is unreachable when I try to raise my hand, one question is they are latest for documentation how to get into this and know how to join or do you actually have the preferred solution at the moment So I set up ninety seven percent of it yesterday before falling asleep. And didn't get my micro tech working although and it doesn't talk to me right now. So I'll have to go poke more buttons. But the the The other part was just like, literally apt yet install, and it went. And and so I'll have it put a a document together and I'll I'll spread on the mailing list. There. And I don't think I'll make the note Id public because anyone can join and I think we just... You'll need to ask it's a bearer token essentially. Yes. Just for the setup, that would be very helpful if there's a small node two. Yeah. And and the other the other... I mean, the other benefit is that some people they have labs where they can get permission to put something like a Vpn in there. But what they don't want the lab up peep... The building operators don't want you doing is running around"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:02",
    "text": "with, you know, random b things going through their firewall. But they're perfectly happy to have you blow up your own lab. Right? So you know, anyway, there's a bunch of choices. So I wasn't say that there's a southern intro effort. It's supposed to be an inter intro after happening at N with the national National Center first National I can't get Nc right, National, cyber center. National Cyber security center of excellence. There we go. So they started in July twenty twenty two they did some presentations at times to some of I think working groups in twenty twenty one took long time to get started to the pandemic, I think. But they've been running this stuff in a in and outside just so say Washington since southwest last summer and I expect it to go to on July twenty twenty although it's not really open to new participants at this point. There are two maybe three b based efforts. One is mine, and there's another one from inquiring lines which is not yet ready, but it's supposed to be ready any minute now. Which is true trying to inter between the two of us. Going on. And so they would also be probably very happy to join Vpn. And then there's another one which is thread based and I think is using B key for application onboarding, but those people have been very, very quiet of about what exactly they're doing. And So it's been unclear. Maybe managed to read the final report in the end. I just wanna mention that was happening and maybe we'll hear from them in San Francisco or something like this as to their final results. But that's the other effort. That's that was happening many didn't get a chance to No about it I'm done. Thank you very much. Any need more questions."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "Okay. Think it's me. Yeah. Can you set the slides? Already put it on. Okay. Thanks. So this this is just a refresher and I'll I'll get back to the other active authors in an Animal to to really take a look and so that we can see we finally want to adopt these Next slide, just wanted to give a quick summary for for the working group to Remember. Next slide Right. So the whole purpose of this is starting from what we have released and published P Acp, the A and I autonomic network infrastructure, and how can we get that as a fully automated running management plane infrastructure for the Rf eighty three sixty eight use case, which is existing networks things people would deploy today."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:03",
    "text": "Adding the Enema infrastructure, A and I and basically allowing that for the network to be automatically plug together so that it can be managed from a controller from management person somewhere else. And it's really not that difficult. Most of the staff are done by Bruce but there are a couple of really core service aspects that have to be auto configured by themselves. This log for ones so that when every anything is happening in the network like new devices is getting enrolled. That that is known in the network operation center. We need times synchronization between the notes so that the whole certificate handling is working cost these routers can simply hold say January first nineteen seventy, And then if we want to remotely access the networks and configure them through controller and net or manually through the Cli we need authentication for that that's typically done by radius or diameter. It's the choice of what typically all the route support. So these services simply need to be auto configured. Dns also would would be very nice to have, but the whole infrastructure should certainly work without Dns. So next slide, what really we need to do is that we do describe the model on how this works. And that is that every router has the client services. Just Nt p radius diameter, and Ssh server so that remote access to it is possible. And they simply learn through brass notes in the network operation center where they need to connect to lock where they need to leave their lock messages, how they synchronized the clock,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:04",
    "text": "they get authentication from. So those are really the only core things that are missing to get network running everything else, Acp and B gear are already solving. And these things often even exist today only that you manually need to configure something like Lock server or an Nt p or radio server And obviously, when you deploy these devices automatically without having to attach them, then you don't want that. So to learn the addresses and the ports and that stuff from the service simply use dns ssd, which is the Standard for service discovery And because there is no really good transport mechanism for dns ssd in touch auto autonomous networks, because Md s is only linked local and all the other Dns Options also require setting up an additional server we've already designed graphs so that we can flood this information so the only thing that we really need for that beyond describing these services beyond describing what is in this services Dns auto config graph. Is that we need to specify how we express Dns as the information as grasp objectives. Next slide. And that is exactly what the the second draft does, the grass Dns. S is describing what's shown here on the right hand side. I don't wanna give for time reasons. Through too many details. But if you do understand dns you know there are a lot of different resource records like address record, a a record for Ip six. C name pointer of service text. So it's it's very fairly convoluted on all the information that you need to put together and luckily or, you know, you even put them in a single packet so that you don't have, you know, four or five times round trip"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:03",
    "text": "but in graph, we can put that all in a single address of objective on the right hand side that has all the elements that otherwise, in Dns in Md s are split up. And that way, we we come also to you know, very simple implementation. But the service side, it's pretty much the same thing. Right? So there is no difference it's all the same Dns is see stuff. I'd run that past the the dns ssd sd working group. And so expert there agreed that that is a very useful additional transport to have for dns And so that's basically the goal of this document. Next slide, So if we think about applicability. So I started this because as the author of R eighty three sixty eight. I wanted to have, you know, for these existing networks that wanna be auto configured that functionality, but I would also think that all the, you know, work that we're currently doing for Iot networks with with many of the b key variations, This work would be very useful. Because we simply need to define the service discovery that we want. With... With the Dns n ssd d records which is what we already are doing. And then we can have implementations once we have they specified, avoid having to implement M mp s and all the complex you all work across the layer three domain, which they wouldn't be able to use with Md and s. Right? So it's simply another efficient transport and an option to create easier implementations then a full Md s stack on every system. Right? So for... And and I was coming up with that record mentioned when were discussing the whole Bruce P functionality discovery pledge discovering registrar right so that would be using"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:02",
    "text": "only what we've been defining the Dns sd service records for that and then simply saying later on, okay instead of using Md s in a single line we can use this a single or layer three network. Right. So that's that's pretty much it. That's the sales pitch. So please read these two drafts and comment And then hopefully, when when when enough people have read it and and think this is useful. We can get them adopted in the working group I mean, you said we don't want wheel. Really went to the wheel. But giving the requirement for other configurations there's already a lot functioning, or protocols can do it? Next and liberty discovery can, you know, labor discovery. Kinda, you know, otherwise meant. Any services in the the h Six Network they're not generic. Right? For neighbor discovery is a protocol called very specific to Ip six risk management. On a subnet, and very few routing related services. Right? Where is this? Is basically the the same scope as what Dns Does and people go through the Dns ssd the registry by the hundreds of services for which this is defined. So this is simply a different transport beside m beside Md s link local multi cars, and health dns, which is a, you know, more complicated setup. Right? So this is just changing the. Right. So the whole point is not for reinvent the service discovery wheel of which the biggest one we have in the Etf, the most flexible one. Alright? So all the As that we wanna do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "we don't have to, you know, figure out, oh, we need to do new ways to do their service discovery. We simply use Dns and then different instances, right? If they're running with an A and I, they can use this if they're running any As we built, And I was pointing you to some other work. They can simply use in other networks Md and s, maybe more constrained. If they're less auto configure they can use as solution. It's a nice framework. Right? I I mean, holiday, country that The still which as know. Yeah. That's if if it So typically what you would do today and large corporate network is you set a big Dns infrastructure. And you need to run a couple of different protocols. The first one being that you have a service... I forgot the number of the Rf, you need to be able to update Dns records. Your not new service instance becomes known by the Dns. It's a large system. So there authentication parts of it. So yeah, you can set this up all with Uni cost units, But you won't find anybody who tells you how to do this all in an automatic fashion. Right? So This is meant to be very lightweight automated and Yeah. As soon as you are not doing services for the A and I itself. Right? But you're doing services for a user in application services. This is not the transport you wanna use. At that point in time you're using again, the existing uni custody dns service. Right? This is all for the services that we're using in the A itself four As asks for our network staff. We don't wanna depend on because the the Dns that is is run by network operations. And typically in large enterprises also different organizations from the network infrastructure. You don't want the network infrastructure to depend. On the Dns operations."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:03",
    "text": "Right. So No. But our ai cannot cross those network either. No. No. It's it's it's a matter of who is running which components. So we we basically built solutions in network routing in multi multitask that we're depending on Dns. And then they basically the cost dns. Right Then they said, oh, no. We now need set up our own Dns that is run by different team. Sorry. I mean, I think we're running out of time here too. Okay. We still have to minutes but see if you want to do the chair, It was... What's the one point, which maybe Michael and others we had called Constrained voucher this temporary allocation by Ian. I forgot that in the chairs slides, originally, is there any reason why we shouldn't expanded extended for another year until we get the constrained voucher out. Is Is there any change in what we've been doing? Yep. Just just recon here. Please go ahead. Michael. I need to double check but I have a suspicion that it may actually move to eighty six see six disc. But I I need to double check because I can't really remember what it is, but we certainly should at retain it for you know, as we get to, it's gonna be six months before we get to the Based on your your plan. So we definitely need it beyond April tenth. Okay. So you you're you're you're you're sure that that this is fine. Okay? Good. And then I'll ask them to do it. Extended Yep. That's that's pretty much the the the thing I'd forgotten. In the chairs slides So that me complete all or I agenda know Oh well we've got three minutes free free time. Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:01",
    "text": "Getting back to everybody. That's fine. Okay Thank you very much. Okay. So honest unless you have more question regarding to the working group. Then we are punk here. Got see you here, and hopefully, you see all next time process. Right? Okay. Save turn it back. Thank you. Thank you."
  }
]
