[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:12",
    "text": "speak for any gonna make one of these okay are you crazy just just to check there we go Marie has volunteered to grab the jammers the blue sheets are on their way around do we have a volunteer to take notes probably two or three things we need to decide today well good morning everybody welcome to the extra session it\u0027s bright and early after a night of socializing we have one of these things totally unreadable the note world everyone has noted the note well excellent I\u0027m done by the way we have three people remotely on media co plus a very small crowd in the room here we have an hour which I told them I don\u0027t need we\u0027re a brand-new group I\u0027m fairly new at this chairing business and nobody has come back to me with requests for things to do today so I\u0027ve put together a rather optimistic agenda I doubt we\u0027ll need all this time for all the things but you never know rely on me together with my clients all right excellent if your uncover than not somebody else will send us an email awesome we all have him all right thank you John\u0027s going to do the job ah so roughly what we\u0027re trying to do here is extend IMAP and sim with new things that we need they\u0027re already a ton of extensions I for something completely unrelated was looking back at an issue a couple of years ago where Microsoft Exchange implemented the move extension and took the untag response to be don\u0027t put anything in front of the response at all so there was no star response it was just the response bladdered on a language broke clients we do have a fairly high bar to get to the clients to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:13",
    "text": "be worth clients implementing anything that we define here because it has to be perfect or there\u0027s no point and even then they need to support both the old and the new until every servers updated so I looked at what the three things that would justify doing an extension are I think either the world\u0027s changing and we want to follow up which the 64-bit extensions fourth message sizes are getting bigger at mailboxes are getting bigger we want to support more than 32 bits and architectures now support bigger numbers if multiple vendors are doing the same thing like it\u0027s been the message-id it\u0027s worth standardizing that so that everyone\u0027s at least doing the same thing the same way and finally for Joe Maddon compatibility things like mailbox unique ID where there\u0027s an ID that stays to the mailbox when it gets renamed it would be good to implement that in a way that can be seen by on that as well so have a standard way by OMA to see those things we have four drafts so far in the extra working group and two more that are ready to be uploaded broast haven\u0027t done it yet and does anyone want to speak to this first few people on Java who have written them densely southern I believe list my rights sip FCC and see of special use are all pretty much ready to go they\u0027ve been implemented and tested has it anyone got me any queries or questions about them sure so list my rights when you do a list command you can specify extra things to be returned and if you say return my rights and it just spits out as if you\u0027re done in my rights on each mailbox directly after the list command convenient for clients that want to show whether a mailbox is read-only or whether you can write to it as part of their they can just do a single list command and get that as part of the response we actually use this one at fast mail to tell whether a mailbox is writable or not it\u0027s quite trivial to just add one more item to the return and you get exactly the same responses you get to my rights it was very easy to implement sip FCC and sip special use I believe we implemented without using yet and I we want to use the FCC press also we\u0027ve looked at it the idea of taking a copy of a reject message when you send it and Alexei will talk about I\u0027m at sixty four-bit you\u0027ve gotta go you gotta "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:15",
    "text": "go up the microphone I\u0027ve transcribed your slides yes sixty four-bit is alike I stole one bit from you right that\u0027s the same thing we\u0027ve done in extensions like Khan store we don\u0027t realize on certain platforms that people have native signed types that feel 64-bit so we better not use the highest bed basically ROM we can rename the capability but I don\u0027t think you know 64-bit just sounds better so as far as I remember there were two open issues which I think both of them you can close but so one was actually explaining that we really meant 64 3 bits and why why this is done so I added a sentence explaining the background and the other one is I I thought the document was really straightforward and then somebody went and did overview of all all the extensions and all all interactions between things and found a bunch of stuff so I went through all of these I believe I incorporated all the relevant a BNF updates a couple of comments one is quota RFC is a really really old RFC it doesn\u0027t even use 53:24 a B and F so it\u0027s a a separate question maybe we should just update it anyway but yeah quote you know quotas are definitely can be more than 32 bits so that\u0027s quite sensible to update right so yeah we do we do have a little bit extra but I think mailboxes are still you know now you\u0027re talking yeah well it\u0027s actually I don\u0027t know maybe even like 10 years ago Dave cridlington I actually we had a quarter update draft which expired so I can talk "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:17",
    "text": "to Dave and bring it back to life it doesn\u0027t do what you do what you were talking about but it was trying to add a bunch of other type of quotas you know that we can think of maybe it was old accounts right in the road yeah old account was an interesting one yeah people wanted in Cyrus they wanted to have a configuration option that was the maximum number of folders that a user could have just because users don\u0027t folders don\u0027t cost pota and so you could create a billion folders under your account and totally come up with server so so that was sort of denial of service production all right okay putting it in quota would then allow you to create exceptions for users that your reasonable limit so it\u0027s okay well it looks like at least you are interested in doing something with quota yeah so and you can make can do everything some yeah okay well uh we\u0027ll talk offline about I\u0027ll try to find the draft I don\u0027t know how useful it is but it might at least use new a B\u0026F so somebody can take it and run with it yeah so yeah the other comment was I think I I made everything I can think of as being 63 bit except for body part number I don\u0027t think we want that many so I thought that was quite safe to just leave it as is so but if I missed anything let me know one editorial comment I have in the document is that I have one big section with you know pieces of different they\u0027d be enough updates do people want it to be split by by each extension I have comments in there you know I don\u0027t always just if people find this to be useful I can rearrange stuff if people are happy the way it is you know then I think it\u0027s done this is very not about this in particular but in general I have found it useful to have both the grammar in context and a summary of the grammar at the end so I know that\u0027s you don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:21",
    "text": "want to have well I\u0027ve collected not summary collected grammar at the end but have the grammar also in the sections that it applies to now I know that\u0027s it\u0027s bad to have the same thing twice because that invites having them differ but so I\u0027m just saying and I don\u0027t feel strongly about it in this case yeah the issue is that most of the things are reusing message size element whether it\u0027s in a pant or in various fetch responses so they were a bit of Clinton you know generic clean up to the mines back and then other things are sort of separate and there they have comments so I can repeat it but for the you know it\u0027s only like four pages document I\u0027m not even sure it\u0027s worth it alright the last two I have here as a safe day and status equal size which I haven\u0027t uploaded to extreme know there was some discussion there about whether we should be using metadata or using per message annotations for some of these things rather than defining new top-level data items for everything that question I don\u0027t think was entirely resolved yeah so save date is the date that a message was moved into a ballroom we actually have the author of this on meter code if you want to speak at all this is chiffon let me bring him up yes fun for that date the status equal-sized if you want to speak about a through this disease oh okay yes oh that\u0027s a bit of a delay so what would you like to know can you tell us about safe date extension well in the current image world there\u0027s only the date at which the message was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:21",
    "text": "received into the mail store in general and if you copy a message or move it elsewhere that date is retained and the same day this is date where the message is stored in a particular folder and you could use that for instance to do automatic message expiry so if you want to remove messages from trash you need to know when it was saved in to threshold or not when it was first received that\u0027s the main distinction between the two okay sounds useful have been implemented it\u0027s been in our to-do list for a while in DAF kala to implement is already but it\u0027s not announced as an actual capability so we support it implicitly but nobody actually knows some web mail clients who use it and actually it\u0027s a bad thing because yeah there\u0027s no negotiation of capabilities there this is Barry so that what bran just said is something that\u0027s very important to me I want to make sure that any documents that we accept in this working group and work on are things that I preferably more than two but you know at least a few implementers want them we had this issue with when in another working group that was doing IMAP collected IMAP update so IMAP extensions where some of them were just pet projects of one team or one person and I just want to make sure that we have some general use general interest stuff going on alright so I will upload say you want to make this meeting Neil Jenkins I just wanted to check I think you already had an open issue of where is this saved and should just be an annotation almost data that\u0027s I think is an important question that was the more general question whether it becomes another fetch item or whether it becomes a message annotation since we have this extensibility feature already as the standard should we be using it or should we just be adding new batch items that\u0027s a more more general philosophical question for this group yeah Barry again being as we have lists extended I\u0027d like to use it so for things that are actually extensions I\u0027d rather not overload annotations for that I\u0027d rather make the extension also extend the list extensions to do that Stephan can you tell us about the other one also the size state a single size "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:21",
    "text": "yeah well basically you can query the size of of a mailbox implicitly in the in the in the list command and the advantage of that is that you can query at once if you use the list extended way of doing things and first the quota extension you cannot query the size of a particular folder you can only create for a particular quota route so that doesn\u0027t say you have one folder you can get it from multiple folders as a total but not for individual folders so if you want to present certain units and in this context size means number of messages and this case size total number of octet size for ma from a process point of view we should probably post something before you have him create working group drafts for this post to the mailing list okay yeah so if right now I wouldn\u0027t even do a call for it I would just do a call for objections yeah just say if anyone if no one objects to this by Friday whatever I\u0027m going to approve it okay if if the memory doesn\u0027t fail fail me my update with Dave Cridland of water draft might include status sighs so I mean I don\u0027t I don\u0027t particularly want to edit it I just saying yeah I\u0027m you know we need to make sure that it\u0027s only described once ya know Jenkins can assign any way similar to Lexy it sounds very related to quota and if you\u0027re making changes to how you can fetch quota maybe they need to be considered together so you can both see how much quota you have and also for each of those things whatever sister statue and what\u0027s being used now have another sort of extension in this similar to status size some clients only show the number of undeleted messages there is no work there is a way to query number of unseen messages I believe but there is no way of seeing like unseen undeleted messages in a mailbox so maybe we need another state but then it goes into a question you know do we ever want to do this for the flags so I want just quickly on this one question I have about status equals size is what is the size of is it the size of the number of bytes used just by the rch or two messages does it include metadata overhead does it include file system overhead does it grunt per message annotations how many different sizes are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:22",
    "text": "there and and and while we\u0027re getting to that question it\u0027s does it have to be fast so I some mailboxes are stored in one big file and you immediately know the size I used to have a server where each message was stored in a separate file and computing the size would take a while so the and I haven\u0027t read the draft so I don\u0027t know if it says anything about it but if it\u0027s expected to be fast the draft needs to say that so that implementers don\u0027t do the wrong thing I must say that is currently not considered in the draft so you should cost a little more later I guess fast metal interface again has a fetch as this because Cyrus I map has a metadata response which is folder size for each folder and when we are creating a here\u0027s your quota usage page we fetch that metadata item for each bullet operator yes precalculus stored in the header just try and flubber the draft here but possibly no status equal sizes is unsearchable their boats about two common words all right see if I had anything else at all you know all I\u0027ve got notice here so the other things that I put in notes for were xgm message ID and xgm thread ID multiple servers have some kind of concept of a consistent message ID that remains with a message when it gets copied or moved if it\u0027s the same message content that keeps the same ID and many servers also have a concept or a thread idea where they have calculated that messages are related and given them the same idea of some sort the last time we discussed this the big debate was whether she is 63 bit numbers and have the server do magic around them or whether to use a longer opaque string and then be able to use something like a UUID to store it I don\u0027t know whether we want to go as far as the Microsoft ActiveSync protocol where you can have kilobytes of data that\u0027s the unique ID for a message apparently I haven\u0027t tried it myself but I think certainly allowing the 70 bytes of a popu IDL would mean we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:26",
    "text": "could have compatibility between anything that uses you IDs or URLs that would be my room so my suggestion there strings will certainly be more generic yeah yeah yeah Neil Jenkins um again came up there strings and I think definitely want to be strings so it would make sense to me if that could be the same across both more easily yeah let\u0027s double check this on the mailing list you know I think we we have happy room agreement but let\u0027s let\u0027s ask everybody else like the people okay a reasonable length restriction is also perfectly good thing to have I agree you don\u0027t want the kilobytes of data for an ID I think it might be implementation slash security consideration of we don\u0027t have to specify a number but we should recommend that people shouldn\u0027t put megabytes of data there a minimum number that a client must be able to handle yeah that\u0027s fine Sperry I will note that we have with state safe data and status equals size six documents already I would suggest that we process those or many of those before we add anymore yeah I think we have three even four I think so yeah I was talking to bran with my AG hat on that we should just write separating write-ups and but yeah I think a good point let\u0027s not let\u0027s officially declare them done and move on to other things and not try to do like seven documents in parallel yeah speaking of things in parallel is there anything else that people think we should be putting on that radar to look at next well there is this I\u0027m a four F to document that I promised so the only thing I need is basically I need to unexpired it and post on the working group name if people want and then this probably will take a bit longer yes yeah my editor hat on as much as I like to make this decision I think this needs a discussion of the working group of so there will be some iteration on things to hopefully what\u0027s already have is close to agree agreeable set of things and I think we might need to add two or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:27",
    "text": "three more things little things so like for example sixty four-bit message sizes might be folded into it right away just because it\u0027s you know it\u0027s nice to do it if we are doing in upgrade anyway yeah this is Barry a few years ago I had proposed along with somebody from Google a special use attribute called important and I\u0027m looking at the draft now it\u0027s it sort of got dropped I wonder if we should pick it up again so it\u0027s what the draft said was that this defines a new special use attribute important to designate a mailbox that will hold messages that are considered important for the user by some externally defined criteria and it corresponds to gene Gmail\u0027s little importance Gmail yeah right and and that was a result of our working on this but we never got the draft through so should we pick it up with this and do that rather than this this draft defines the registry as well excellent okay I will so will post it to the mailing list I\u0027ll do this one later informational RFC this iris replication protocol it was defined to be able to replicate anything which is the IMAP data model why Stefan doesn\u0027t step up to the speaker queue I don\u0027t know but he posted I will channel him from jabber maybe sieve email address internationalization savaris RFC predates much of the e aí work possible topic this working group could address and then Ken Murchison who also appears to be in Miyako and isn\u0027t getting in the speaker queue says with respect to severe CC Ned freed was opposed to allowing FCC to be used with reject because you\u0027re essentially lying about the disposition is this worth discussing I think we we hashed it out fairly well on the mailing list at the time my argument being if you if the user wants to lie then the server should allow them to do it it was the opposing I don\u0027t know if we originally an agreement either way on that and we don\u0027t have net here to ask yeah maybe we should follow up on the mailing list my my sort of thought is most of Civ actions will "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:30",
    "text": "still result result in server-side logging so I mean you there will still be a trace this is almost almost an extended version of logging you know of what you\u0027re actually generated so any of you capturing messages before they get saved regardless of what your action is then okay but I think we have a reaction item just to verify this on the mailing list you know take me a copy of the message but still rejecting as if it had not received a message was saying we say rejected it but will also save the copy so is it is it that\u0027s what we called Lima is it okay basically yeah that\u0027s yes sorry you started talking about service application protocol I said we will you sort of distracted you a little bit we will write that up as an informational document I don\u0027t think it needs to be standard in any way with process ADA director hat on I need to double check whether it\u0027s within charter scope yeah person I think it\u0027s a good thing too right right up anyway so write it up and we\u0027ll decide whether it\u0027s in scope for the working group whether we want to do a small tweak to the Charter or just process it as individually so I think that\u0027s we have it now say extended IMAP command which is apply this set of changes to the mailbox and they\u0027re required to be compatible with the IMAP data model it\u0027s just it allows you to do things like specify the UID of a message oh sorry okay so it\u0027s it is as a IMAP extension okay all right as opposed to entirely in youth or fine I think that that that shouldn\u0027t be objectionable then oreal that\u0027s everything that\u0027s there and that\u0027s everything anyone\u0027s asked me to talk about the maid HECO people are very quiet the rooms everyone\u0027s got their heads down laptops yeah I asked about the sieve email address International internationalization it\u0027s a topic that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:31",
    "text": "came up at our side yeah so the thing is if doesn\u0027t contain anything and the question is do we want to address that in this working group I guess there\u0027s two questions do you want to address it at all and do you want to address it right away this is Barry I certainly think we should wait until we tell the other documents settled I agree but do we want to address it do we have the knowledge to do it here I see John is on Jabbar or is on Medeco so there\u0027s John and me I don\u0027t know who else here is very familiar with the AI but John John yeah and John and Pete in the room so yeah I guess we have a critical mass of people with EA I clue yes we should definitely have a look at it but not until we deal with the rest of the dollar okay yeah my suggestion is if you can start a draft under your personal name first and well I\u0027m very happy to co-author and let\u0027s have a look how it looks okay just I think a lot of things we discussed before this point there are relatively trivial or you know that this one is going to be probably slightly more involved just a gut feeling but that\u0027s not not the reason not to do it of course you know okay John agrees that we should do it here okay and then I guess maybe by London we\u0027ll be ready to start looking at new documents does anybody have anything else I\u0027ve just left you on Stefan because there\u0027s nobody else being a maker so you\u0027re still in the room I haven\u0027t been lunch turn you off unfortunately I don\u0027t have one for the people in the room all right well thank you everybody I believe we\u0027ve done the blue sheets made its way around the room is it all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:32",
    "text": "right thank you I haven\u0027t Thank You general direction of party [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:43",
    "text": "bringing already you "
  }
]