[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:28",
    "text": "If you can find That's true. This is transit how would you feel? Yeah. It's okay. I think think we give few minutes for people to find a room We give 3 more minutes for people to find the room. 1st Yeah. We don't have a g here yet, presenter. So It's a crazy hot"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:19",
    "text": "to meet them. Give it would give another minute, Great. Thanks. Eighty Science in here. Mhmm. Before the storm I think we should start. Yeah. Okay. So Welcome, everybody. As you can feel, the room has been heated up for, like, very warm and, you know, active discussions here. So just to prepare you all, So welcome. You have ended up in, the LSVR Working Group here. And Yeah. So before we start, if you, you know, slide 6. 1st is the note well."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "You probably have already seen, like, a few times this week, it basically mentioned or whatever you say and do here will be property of the IETF. If you have, like, any pattern stuff and so onwards, you know, be careful on that. We also have the the really note well, which means you have to be polite and kind to each other and create like a nice environment for like, you know, friendly communication here. For everybody. Yeah, we are already seeing these things. So if you ended up with Thursday afternoon, if you are not aware of this, then you probably have not really attended a lot of sessions at this point in time. But anyway, this is some quick meeting tips thing here. Now before we start with the session here, so still the same to have chairs here. For the JavaScript if there is like anything, please let us know, keep monitoring the queue a little bit. For minuets, please make sure that, you know, if you can actually help us with you know, putting the minutes in in place and correct where necessary, you know, that will be very well shared it. And now let's go over to the agenda. So we do have an agenda here. So We didn't have a lot of email communication on the working group, but we do have an with different topics. So that's pretty cool. More than that later on, you know, during the closing of our session here. So anybody would like to change anything on the agenda or is unhappy or Fails to relieve some heat from the room Nothing yet. Okay. What I'd like to add could improvise everybody reached in the bar. Sisting I keep that thought. Okay. So so that's go at the document status, our main specification, So the shepherd review was done and it was posted,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:03",
    "text": "in end of towards endofSeptember. And, the authors are working on changes, unfortunately, we did not have much discussion on the mailing list for the review. And I hope that, We do really more discussions on the mailing list However, there were, to make it efficient, I did have a a call with the editors of the draft, and we did go back and forth quite a bit. So, I think, I'll let the author's present the status Meanwhile, Jim has returned after the working group. So we'll work through these things. The LSPR applicability, there is no change, and, I think we discussed last time. This will be taken up post the main spec is already. Then, there's an update for the the yang model, which, Mahesh would be presenting today we have, 3 other working group documents, which Randy has refreshed And, they are now active and, we'll talk about these, towards the after all the presentation in the closing Okay. And with that, we'll switch over to It's I got a quick question. I'll be going to talk about charter before or after. No."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "I didn't what I'm Alright. Thank you. I'm gonna talk about the latest that status of BGPS draft, This is the work done here with ACVM Derek up by And, folks, The draft version 28 was subtem submitted, on 8 29. Obviously, we got a nice review done by Caitlin. Thank you so much. As part of shepherd's review. Again, the status of is draft is that the last call has been done, multiple implementations, now available. I'm told that couple of vendors have implemented. The craft version, and there is an open source implementation as well. On this. So, looks like it's holding up okay. And obviously, we did an early review on drafting director. That has also been done. So all the reviews have been pretty much completed. Ops. The review is also done. Ulroated, detailed review as part as part of the past AD review, and the AI model is also submitted. Fairly straightforward on this. I'm gonna talk about what Caithen gave us a feedback was quite deep and insightful. First of all, He suggested that, hey, since we use existing mechanisms for likeness case in point BFT, that should be a normative reference. We'll make the change. He suggested removal of algorithm TLB, suggested to use the default tier v, which we are using currently in the implementations."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "And as we need, more algorithms to be inserted, we can have a document on that, So, or we can we can figure out the way then. So the base spec will remove this. Should be okay. From an implementation standpoint, suggested an addition addition of additional text for Lincoln identifiers and the criterias to match Now, this is where we will need to add some text, obviously, and then need to look into implementation as to how do we sort of beef it up? To make it a little more robust. Also, such a removal of advertisement of prefixmasks as a link attribute. And sort of make it similar to ospfv3. We are looking into this. And see how best we can incorporate this There are other knits and editorial comments and some of these changes may, force us to revisit implementations. I think the changes are again, even in that case, quite minimal or incremental, should I say? Won't impact major implementations, So we should be good That's all I have. Questions? A question for chairs is would you like to do reissue a last call after this or you would still want to go ahead with the previous last call, as we resend the draft. I think, we should, as you pointed out, there are changes So we should do a working group last call. Sweet, sweet, Thank you. And, I'm hoping that, that you said there are changes to implementation. I think you are speaking for one implementation. I hope we hear from others as well if there are any issues, with compatibility or any other any other alternate ways to address the Problems. Yes. Indeed. There are quite a few implementers in here."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "G Hi. Chitung from Huawei. I just like to send all this for the work and send the working group for the review. And, hopefully, we are working also working on some implementation of this. Would be more than happy to do interrupt. When the time is right. Great. Thank you. I'll just let's say, AC Lindem, Lavin, not Cisco. Anyway, I I just like to say that I, we'd like some feedback on, especially you know, the bit. The the one change that's going to be fairly you know, a little bit different is not we're not we're gonna take out that new we take out that new sub TLV, for the prefix mask that we added So we did so we could avoid an extra prefix and or a lie. Well, Ketan suggested that we keep The links keep it Just the topology. As opposed to the, topology plus the prefix like ospfv3 is in if you if we want the link subnetexposed, which you probably would for for monitoring, you'd have advertised that as a prefix. So everybody, I I'd like, you know, especially if you're looking at implementations that make comment on that. That's the that's the one thing I looked at, and I said, well, you know, it's been like this for 5 years or 4 years or whatever. Do we, you know, should should we change this?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "I think, the point also was that there could be multiple prefixes on the link. And, then, that's true. That's then you'd have to, you know, you'd have to accommodated a different way. Yes. You'd have to advertise those as prefix in our I anyway. Correct. A the re the reviews are all, like, suggestions and comments finally, it's up to the working group which includes implementers to you know, really work things out. K. Thank you. Alright. Mahesh, and I'm gonna present the yang model for BGPLS and LSSPF. So We did submit, and I show 2 version of the model quite recently. The a quick introduction here, the model basically is configuring and Man, sorry, specifying both the configuration and management of BGPLS a l s s p f. And, of course, it defines a model for the links state database also. So update since 1 we have added support for BGPLS attributes. I'm looking at, of course, since 52 biz, But I'd even after look having added it, I am at least aware of a limitation that I did talk to Kaithen a little bit about, as a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "relates to support of sub TLVs within Not so I might have to redo a bit of support for VGLS attributes. Then, we do have an ability to, of course, maintain and, when we do have statistics we want to be able to, of course, clear them so that capability has been added. So in terms of next steps, we still have to add support for links data analysis. And, of course, support for Ellis and LS SPFIN DRIP part of the BGP model. I do have a few examples already in the draft, but as you know, we keep updating it, especially from a configuration perspective. I will try to add a few more examples to kind of at least make it clear how do configure using this particular model as usual, the code and issues are at the scale up locations, feel free to Either file issues even suggest court changes if you want to and I will be happy to take a look at them. Alright. K. Kaithen Talallikar, Cisco, no no hat on, So, as you said, it's a bit challenging to export the BGPLS because of the multiple TLVs and, NESTETs. So I wanted to check with our LS IGP expert, AC, and since AC, you have worked on the IGP models, is there something that we could borrow from dead, pre pre"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "As far as I remember, we've not done the LSDB. We did take a look at OSPF model. It to LSPB, but it very specific to the Sure. But could we follow the same So we did, by the way, I we did take a look at the SPF model to see if there was other precedence to this. And I think they have this on the same problems that we are encountering from a model perspective. Okay. So the even that So they have support for TLVs in the model. So Do we have, ACs support for sub TLVs and sub up TLVs at, at whatever level in the OSBF model. Yes. Now the question there would be, and is it like a fixed size? Because I it's nest and container Also, you have essentially put a container within a container to try to support. Subsidiaries. And from a language perspective, you're not running into any issues with because So you're kind of pointing to yourself when you're referring to subtiers. Especially if they have the same format. So so maybe for discussions, she used the mic for the people, you know, online. Sorry. Okay. Anyway, AC So I'll just echo what AC mentioned of the mic is that, they do have support for some TLVs and OSPF So we'll take another look at it. But when we did, Jeff and I were looking at the model yesterday, we didn't feel that that might support specially variable size. Subtles. For a fixed size Absolutely. But how do you specify up front in a model what the depth of the subtile is going to be. I don't see why you have to do that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "I mean, how many how I mean, because, oh, I I know that you have we have unknown TLBs Yes. And then we have TLBs. So for the cases, there there's a finite depth. To the ones that we've defined, and those ones are defined. The other ones are unknown, and you just to the top level and the length. Right. So for the unknown TL, we absolutely Right. I think we stop at the the the definition of the unknown tail. Exactly. Exactly. And for the known TLDs, you know how deep they are. Yeah. So that was the question. As I was asking, Kate, and client was is learn for known TLVs, known them. Yeah. And I don't think we we have not I haven't looked at it. I think Ying's end might have taken a crack at a first step. We haven't done things that are nested deeply like plexalgal, But I think she might have taken a crack at it. I I can't remember. But in the base model, there's nothing like that. There's just, you know, the the te I will say, right now in the bay is the deepest nested one in the base model. Right. Right. So one example is in the OSP of V2 or the OSP of V3 extended LSA. We have the l 2 bundle member And then that has all the other, attributes coming it underneath it. So we did not have that At some point, we introduced that is too. So is that I I I I doubt we have done that in a in a simple way. So that and if we don't, we may have to have separate, a separate grouping. Know, just Yeah. So Even even if it replicates some of the same information. If it's not if it's not Yeah. Yeah. So I think probably the problem is, the problem statement is that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "if or when we introduce something, a new TLV, which could have ELVs, Could we extend the model. To do that. I think that's about it. Yeah. It's a good just a good point. I It seems we could, but as long as, we don't flatten it Yeah. I think we can't flatten it. Yeah. Yeah. We can't flatten it. Right. Okay. So I'll take a look at it. One possible solution is to have a leaf ref into the sub TLV. Which is defined so that then you can kind of recurse yourself, but from a language perspective, I'm not sure whether you can have a leaf rep back to yourself kind of if you have something on these, So something to try. Okay. Any other questions? K? Alright. That's all. Thanks, Smash. Hello, Hong. From Huawei. everyone. My name is And I'm going to talk about, PGP as we have for multi segment SC 1. So first, is a recap of SE 1. Does SD WAN work? Kind of like, IP sector or on top of existing VPN tests. And the PGP is used as a Tropnet to distribute the IP cell, RSA, and the port attributes. For example, it's a public IP address. And other, transport network information. And this, is is defining this IDR, working group drop called SE One HD Discovery. From the name, you can, you can see is edge discovery instead of eternal discovery"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "actually, the only path is the terminal and the pointing information. Between the between different cities after that, the CPU can choose to establish the eternal and that you can use to maintain the terminal. But there is no information exchange about the terminal step. So that has between the the controller and the CPE Then we have the multi segment SD WAN. The use case for this multi segment is that, sometimes the one segment, one hop over public internet, the quality we'll not be good. So we can use multiple, local optimal, optimal tunnel to to to get to the better quality. For example, are many different terminals you can use for example, as you want to know, over the internet or MPS and the Microsoft data. Proposing, a C1 turnover will call the packable. And we also have, direct the link. You if if the direct link is used, there is no need for, SCI internal. There is no need for the IP second encapsulation. Saying in this multi segment SQL, we need kind of, like, over an a over an ASPF it's needed to calculate which path which overnight pass is the best So we use the BTP SPF to connect this overnight 1, technology. And, it's connect the post, the so SEV 1 terminal and the direct link. Know the NRI and the link NRI is shown here. And the link attributes, will include the SRA for the calculated all the shortest paths, this this is just a usage of the PIP as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "there is no extension here. Then we propose another extension to the BGPRS This is for connecting the name type. SCO internal, they over different elderly, and they sometimes they can chances wrong over on direct link. So there are, many many choice. Off the SEO internal. And from the customer may re may have different quantity requirement, for difference in ink. For example, for the fintech customer, some bank they require a high secure high secure link they don't want to run their traffic over the internet or LTE pass. They only write over the LPS, or or physics link. And some customer really just wants the highest quality they don't want to use the overlay, only the alternate. And sometimes the RTE is only used as a backup. When the map has a fails, there are in the increased use. So when you should exclude the LTE in the from the PGP SVR for calculation. Here we are proposing a new ninc attribute TRV. To carry this link type. The link type is in this, as and at as in table. Basically, we using the VGP SPF to connect as a SE 1 link topology. And we propose an extension to the GDPR SPF link attribute to carry the data type and we change it to the information or to the standard check. Courses have, PTPR as an intangibles invitation. So we would like to seek comments or suggestion any any contribution is welcome."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:05",
    "text": "Kael Patelarcas. This is pretty interesting in sense that now on an overlay, you will do, graph building is assuming the underlay will always be a IP connectivity, or will there be a tunneling involved? The company's IP on the name or MPRs you know, but ipsec. If it's using direct link, then no IP sync. Okay. But if it's a multi hop, then you will use one hop can be the direct link. There is no IP set. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Mhmm. Okay. So if I look at, picture number, 4, I think. Slide number 4. It it is a kind of tunneling. At least that's how to answer the expression. Because, tunneling then then Sorry. I was gonna say that tunneling will help eliminate the packet forwarding loops. Yes. Well, it looks good. But it is interesting in sense that it is the first time grafting used as an overlay. Yeah. Yeah. Good. So so this is actually BGP pairings and they are over tunnels. As I think you mentioned, and we and the use case here requires that a graph we built And, best part or, optimal path for a certain thing. Yes. The use case here. Yes. So it goes beyond the data center, but it is still link state topology that is built and using BGP as the under Mhmm. One suggestion on the next slide, for the link, this new TLV. Have you considered using affinities"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "so we have In IGP, we have, link colors or affinities. Which one can include or exclude for any type of computation, path computation. Oh, So it's kind of for the past computation strategy. Yes. And this is for the past, link type information connection. There is a 2 difference. Yeah. Yeah. So the way, in traffic engineering and in IGP's, the affinity is used is that it's abstract notion So an operator could have all their internet Links colored, red, all their MPLS links colored blue. And, you know, tomorrow some other link time comes, it could be purple. Yeah. So you could have, the path computation, which excludes let's say you don't want to go over the Internet excludes that color. It's a level of abstraction. Just a suggestion if you want to consider So if you are using corner or right away. Is there any extension needed? No. That it already existed. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. G Correct. Just to quick thing about the using color instead of the tooling type. As in Durham, here, they may want to some have some more flexible link, selection, policy, not just to exclude the specific type of a link, like, using something like the backup. So I'm not sure while the color can be used in that case. Oh, yeah. The backup case is more complicated."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "Is kind of like, overnight vulnerability. You need a whole a notion for that. Yeah. Yeah. Alright. Gilberto Alcus. One quick question. If you use this new TLV, this deal, we will be very specific to SPS Safi. Correct? Error else it's at it's, DG PRS attribute Yes. But it will be only specific to BGP SPS software where BGP LS is used. Yes. Yeah? Because the BGP LS that is used at the wider scope, may not find its use. Yes. So you're doing this as an overlay building. So It would be very specific to SPS Staffing only. I think it would be nice to make a note of Okay. Thank you. Which Any other questions? Okay. So should we ask for working group adoption? Do you guys think he's make sure for that. think we need some discussions at least on the list. Mhmm. Okay. I Oh, I see. Yeah. And also for the moment, you know, this topic is still not part of the shortage just yet. So, you know, one of the reasons we're gonna be discussing this at the end okay. This particular meeting Okay. Thank you k. Yeah. Okay. Good afternoon, everyone. This is Jaden Harnpoway. I'm going to give a a presentation on this, some proposed update to the BGPRS, SPF, Narai's election rules."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "Some background and motivation. We know that PSPF has was designed for the link state information distribution and using SPA PaaS computation. In the MSDC scenarios, and it may be also be extended for other scenarios. As well. Currently, it's a BGP SPF for NRI. Defines that its own analysis selection rules for all the BGPRS SPF in our eyes as below The first role is to, prefer the route NII originated by the directly connected to the BGP, SPF, peers. And the second one is the NRI with the most recent sequence number, TLV is, select preferred. The third one is, so now I received from the BHPSDF speaker. With the numerically larger PGP ID is preferred. This kind of rules are simple, but, during some analysis. We found that I've seen some cases. This course may not be enough to provide a, like, either deterministic selection result, or it may caused some delay in the root convergence. So we think maybe some additional rules will help in those cases. Here, shows the first problem scenario, which, that is about related convergence as shown in this picture. There's a failure of the BHB session between R2 and R3. It is detected by our stream either by using BFT or other detection mechanisms. And according to the BGP SPF draft to avoid the road flaps, R3 will hold all the NRS received from our 1. For this, a specific period. And during this period, if there's, another link change, for example, the link between r 1 and not to change from down to up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "Our tool will generate a new, update of the link and, alright, R1 to R2. With a greater and the 6th number. And it is in our highest advertised to its p BGP peers. Yeah. So at R3, we'll not receive this directly from R2 instead, we received it from R4 with the latest link now of the ARPU generated for link around to R2. In this case, according to the STF selection rules, us, we would prefer the link in the right received from out to directly. So this is, caused that, actually, we will not use the latest LinkedInRI. For both for his own SPF computation. Into your gen advertising is further towards peers. And in that case, this compute convergence can be delayed. In the network. Gee, would you like to take questions? Okay. Yeah. AC Lindem, 11, I guess this is a what the drafts means rather than what it says, literally, Case. Because once the session goes down, it's no longer directly connected And rule 1 wouldn't apply. That's what it means. Because the the the the the first rule is to accommodate the case where the router loses its state and restarts And you have a session. So it's no longer directly connected. Are you I mean, I I I mean, I don't argue that it could it could be clarified in the draft, but that's what it means. Yeah. This this case isn't that isn't isn't isn't So So it needs some clarification in the draft is needed Yes. Yes. For this case. For this case, yes. Okay. Okay. That may be one solution to this problem. Yes. Because us Kaithen here. Gee, I think it would help as you're implementing this, if you find such questions, that you just use the list Yeah. Bring it up. Okay. Yeah. That is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "one of these, problem scenarios, maybe some clarification in the asked about what they should be done in this case. Will be helpful also. Okay. Here's the, second, the problem scenario. It about some redundant to advertisement in this case, there's a new BGP session established between r 1 and and R6. Our advertisers link in the right to its neighbors R2 firstly receive this, Nick and I, I want to R2 R6 from our one directly. It will select it as a best and advertise further to our fight. Then our 4 also received this thing high with a sequence, same sequence number. And and our 4 will advertise, our 3 Afore will advertise this route to R2 because it will consider this one is preferred from the preferred peer with a larger BHP ID. And then are to compare this to NRI receipt from 2 peers, and we also prefer the results, receive from R4, and we'll generate generated a new update to our flight. But in this case, actually, this, the same link and they are advertised to R5 twice. So this consider as a redundant. The 3rd problem is in this scenario, where, 2 routers have parallel B2B sessions established and the same can be received the same error with the same sequence number can be received from both sessions. And the current ROI selection rule does not tell, in this case, how to determine which one is a preferred route. And it may be either the one received from the first session or the one from the 2nd session, be selected. I guess some kind of scenarios where the up for the operation, the troubleshooting,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "it is preferable to have a deterministic result of the narrow selection even in this case. So that we may consider further type breaking rules make to make sure the selection is deterministic. Oh, so here are the proposed update to the NII selection rules. Firstly, we can see that the we add some rules following the existing rules. Such as for the allies received from the EPGP peers to the right way to smaller number of AS numbers. In the past attributes should be preferred. This is to help that. You can do some tie breaking And usually, the route with the short areas parts can be received first. That you don't need to have this duplicate advertisement And similarly for the NRIs received from IDGP peers, this is a in the model where you use ABGP for the network. They arrive with a smaller number of the cluster IDs in the trust list should be preferred? And in the end, we also added the road with to do the type looking between the peers from the same BGP PHP router so that it would appear they're all received from the peer with a smaller peer dress to be referred so but I will add a note here, like, for the first scenario, as he mentioned, there's a many different options to either clarify clarify the existing rules or we define some specific rules for that case. We are always modify the existing rules. So this is straightforward for the discussion. Okay. So here, we just do one collateral feedback. On the problems and also the proposed update to the selection rules. And so that we can revise this And since the draft is already the BGS here based travel is stable. We're not we're not sure whether"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "This can be merged directly to the base or we make it a separate document. Okay. Thank you. Scale. Care Patel artists. I got 2 comments. 1, you're probably best of keeping this draft separate. I think it's a good we just should figure out a way to get that rolled over the draft, but I think the version 28 is quite stable. Pending, Caitlin's, feedback and any changes we end up doing. I think at least the author's thing, that it is ready at this point, we are getting comments that are revisiting other comments So I think we are getting to a point of, you know, I would say minimal returns or end no returns, if any. Right? That's comment number 1. Command number 2. Can you go back to a one slide, please? Yeah. One slide. No. No. Just Thank you. Number 4, you are assuming that the class deployments will be IBCP. Yeah. In case this is, use that. Yeah. Maybe you want to make that very specific. I get it, but just want to clarify it because in you probably will face the similar issues, but what you are assuming, then it'll fall down to 506. Okay. Okay. Yeah. We can add a clarification in text, text, ACLindom Levin. Yeah. I think I think at least for the first one, we just fixed that definition because that was never meant to be and a direct interpreted to be a directly connected peer once the session's down. You don't take the old dot, even though it came from the peer If it's down, it's not Yeah. I mean, I mean, it's broken. It's broken if we don't do that. I mean, it like you said, it will be a real long convergence. Yeah. So we're I I think we're gonna fix that, but for the other ones, This is all"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:05",
    "text": "related to the fact that we didn't wanna change the base BGP Advertising. So and you make a good point, that if you don't change the base BGP, advertisement, you have copies of the same general from different different peers. And which one to prefer I'm thinking I think when we wrote it, we were thinking more like I piece where it doesn't matter as long as it's the same one. Right? But, yeah, we we can keep that in a separate document. But, I see what you're saying. Mean, the other cases are a lot of the selection criteria. Yeah. I mean, the fact that you're you're You're right. We don't have it precisely defined, but it doesn't matter in the outcome of the SPF. Yeah. For the result, it doesn't matter, but it may some, additional burden to the nose, sender and the receiver. Right. For the first one, I think, just to, maybe, for the clarification. In case this session is done as review, maintain all the routes from our tool, but they will using the real market as, Stay all. Yeah. I still, in the route comparison, will not be used, consider as a route from the direct peer. Right? Think this rule is does not apply in the case? Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. So, Kaithen Talolikar. So, g, when the update comes out of the draft, you should review it and find and flag or paying up for attention, all these things. Okay. Yeah. Thanks. Yeah. Comment about the other things, as long as the behavior is local to the router, I think, it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "might as well be done is a separate document. It has no implications But if there is anything that needs, it's not local or needs the PR to know or a network by deployment I think the working group should consider whether that's something worth rolling in the base spec. At this stage, Yeah. Kira, Rakes. We you know, order to 2 things in order to keep implementations simple. We're trying to also get implementation experience. I think I think my preference or probably, AC unless you feel otherwise, our preference would be to keep it separate. It's a Good document, and and it can write on SPF. So I think, that is also and it may be good to document it as well. So And they might find other things as they're going along too. Correct. Repating what AC said, he we might find other things that goes along. So it could be incorporated in this. Okay. Okay. So we are the end of the Presentations and now Yep. So this this last part actually is more to discuss about in, the the the future of, you know, this particular working group as such, So we started this this work, like, quite a while ago, and We created a working group under the assumption that there would be, like, lots of interaction, you know, very vivid discussions and, you know, many interested park is involved to develop this new routing technology. And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "not now, you know, like a couple of years later, we actually are almost at the end of this first, you know, journey here. And so we have a good draft which is nearly ready. We had, like, a great separate review of this thing. We had, like, an ID review before So, you know, I think the endpoint for the 1st charter is coming very close, you know, front of us. Now it also starts, you know, us to think about, you know, what is going to be next k? So there are actually, like, a few observations. You know, we actually have a chairs. Is that you know, So, during the the loss IETF meeting, we discussed also, like, okay, you know, we're gonna bring up like, chart discussions, during, you know, the the next couple of months. And as you have seen and as you have observed, you know, those things didn't really happen as such on the working group areas at this point in time. Now another observation was that in general, not a lot of emails actually came on the working group alias on time, you know, during that time either either. Yeah. And even though that during this time, we had, like, a gray separate review in that particular document. Know, there were like a few things in there, which We chairs and all. Hoped a little bit for discussions on the shorter front as such. So I don't So so one of the things, you know, we are thinking about is So now we are starting to look into this new application spaces for this routing technology as such. Now at the same time, you know, we can only justify you know, re chartering and so onwards, If there is sufficient amount of energy in the working group, to keep working on this, you know, new enhancements as such. So maybe we have to revisit again, like, okay, you know, what do we want to do? And know, to give us like a reasonable,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "confidence that there is, you know, enough energy and enough you know, people willing to work on these type of documents. So a few of those elements we were thinking about, which could be interesting, you know, to recharter if we want to do that. Yeah. So another topic, you know, what plays in our minds here is that as we have seen over the week, there are like many, many, many working groups here, and we actually are all fighting, you know, different slots, you know, during these IETF meetings. And you know, I I wonder by myself sometimes, like, if know, does it make sense to request working group slots? You know, if we see on the working areas, it's like, a few minutes, you know, flying by. You know, it's something we have to ask for. So, you know, is it actually worthwhile or could it be maybe better to split it off to to took 2 other working groups, you know, like, so the the the fight is up, you know, going forward. Now that being said, we do have very interesting topics. You know, we actually are working upon and like the L3DOS stuff, which is definitely something we need from a, you know, from a beach BSBF in all perspective. We are having interesting discussions on, like, protocol maintenance and extensions as we seen today has, so applications and observations of what the technology is. And how to improve of what we have. And we are thinking about, like, the making, you know, an offense to the charter to allow BGPSPF applications to appear. Now, again, So these are all, like, you know, interesting ideas. But if we go ahead with this, we must be confident that there will be sufficient this discussions, people interested to keep working on these documents as such. So by that, I will leave it point in time, and I believe the mic opened for, you know, for discussions here. Unless you have something to say, Katam, Everybody or Will it be silent again."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "Kyiv Patel, Arcus. So I'll go first. I'll probably say the work is interesting. We should consider it for re chartering. 2nd thing, and I'm just speaking as in individual working group member, I think the work needs to be expedited. One of the reasons why you will probably see slowness is Even software becomes stale with time. I know that is not the focus of IETF, but if you are really looking for in implementation and a deployment experience, you have to move some of the drafts pretty quickly. This is my feedback to working group chairs. As well as the 80. And everybody up the chain that get the draft either to the experimental part or to the proposed standard, but move it fast and figure out what needs to be done. Because then it always inspires other people, to write and contribute more. It doesn't work otherwise that well. So my request would be let's get the work going. Thank you. Tim? Hi, Jim Gishard. Just just a couple of comments. So so the first one is, to echo what Kayo just said. I already gave you a commitment that I will not be the bottleneck but I need you to give me the documents before I can do anything with them. So but I do give you that commitment that I won't be that bold in So that that's the first thing. The second thing is do bear in mind that you don't have to have a face to face meeting in order for the working group to continue. You know, if there's work that is is being done and there's not really that much to talk about at the face to face, and that's fine. But we do need to get this charter sorted out, that there's clearly some stuff on there that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "we can add, but I again, would echo what the chair said. Please get to the mailing list. Let's get these things documented on there, and let's get this moving. Unless guest manage you. Yep. Thank you. That is definitely also like a like a path forward thing instead of actually you know, waiting 8 single time for like, like an AI IETF meeting to happen and then do something to actually do it more frequently. And trigger activity through, like, intrancedal periodically. Especially now that we are, you know, we are converging on you know, the first, you know, piece of work and we, you know, in the end zone, I think it would be, you know, very helpful from the perspective. And, hopefully, that will trigger more discussions on the working group on on the list. And so the end zone. So so, by the way, and and any any comments or or anything else anything else, you know, you would like to add to, you know, open mic part of this particular, session here. Wow. It has never been so silent in a working group Yes. When do we expect to see a draft charter? See the draft chart. So So I think the question, here was is this Is this all that Okay. Does the working group agree that these are the things that we should take up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "Right? And Is there anything else? So at least we need a like, a bullet list of items and we will also send this on the list. So let's get the bullet list first and when we have that, then we can work on a draft safe. It has to come from We've been discussing it for years. You you are not wrong The the situation at the moment is that you know, So So we trying to work upon, like, a restructuring, then there was, like, some weight for having a separate review, which took some time. We are there right now. And, we're now, you know, finishing all this first document here, and we are now looking into you know, the different topics on on where we can extend the charter for this point and our hopes was from me in Katana's chairs here. To get from the working group an understanding of, you know, what are those things, you know, they actually feel you know, where this particular working group should move into, especially looking into you know, because if it comes from the working group itself, then the hopes for a more energy collaboration here. Is higher. So the the aspirations there is something But you are not wrong, so we've been talking about this for years, and it has been falling and some degree that is, you know, yeah. Unfortunate. Alvaro? Hey, guys. I hope you can hear me. Not say something? Yes. Yes. I'm sorry. Nothing? Okay. There we go. So Knowing that maybe I was the bottleneck before."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "And and knowing that Jim is not going to be the bottleneck going forward. I'm gonna say that that Sometimes lesses more. Not only has a working group been discussing the charter for a while, there's work in your slide that is basically done. You know, the l three d l work is all but ready to go. In my opinion, and I'm not the one approving anything, but in my opinion, if we're so close to the, main draft being published. We should go ahead with purple maintenance and a 3d l. And, you know, not delay the charter anymore. I'd be ready with that so that that's as soon as the as the work is is opened. Charter is approved. We can go and push the L3DL stuff out. And, get that done with. In the meantime, it'll give everyone time to get an and more ideas on what other uses or or applications or whatever else is gonna be there. Because I don't see anyone, you know, running up to the mic with any rent ideas right now. Randy Bush again, Marcus. Well, I'm asking for years. A specific action item on specific people to draft the new charter. Action item is announced. The action item is on us chairs, right, to do that. So we will put these points out on the list, maybe give a couple of weeks to see if anything else is to be added or and, removed And, hope there is some responses, yes, no, And then, we work on the and draft. Target draft by any of you. Yes. Yes. Unless,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "Definitely. If you need help, chance people, Okay. Thinets. K. So anything else anybody would like to contribute If not, that we can give you back about coming up. Can I jump the mic? I just want to thank the chairs. This is fantastic work. Finally, you're taking it up. And thank you. Yeah. It's Jim again. I I I may be missing something, but but but to be to be frank, the the the changes that we need to made for the charter for those, at least that first bullet point is pretty minimal. So it shouldn't take us long to do that. And so what I would suggest is perhaps if you can come up with a draft, change to the charter from the chair's perspective. Put that out on the mailing list. Let's get everybody to say yay or nay. And then let's get get that done at least. The other piece is the extensions and so forth. Application, not so important. We we can do that again later. But let's at least get that. And then as Alrose said we can get that L3d3d l work out the way, and we can you know, deal with everything that we already have. So That shouldn't take us too long to do that. It's pretty simple. And let's Yeah. I mean, year end to me is, like, way too far out there. Right? I I'd rather see it quicker than that if if if we can. So the year end time was not given by us. It was asked by Randy."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "So we said, yes. Definitely before year end, but that does not mean at year end. Your end is really fast for this working group. Thank k. Thanks, everybody. Thank you. Just want to do it. We just want to do it once and get it. Wrong chunk Yeah. So, so, you are okay. We just do first in in about, like, yeah, like, do something else? I will do all the yeah. And then we have to drop. I would do one Why increase button? It should be part of"
  }
]
