[
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:46",
    "text": "mr. song yeah hello hello yep greetings everyone and welcome to PC so I\u0027m John Hardwick we\u0027re going to get started now so we\u0027ll go quickly first through the usual administrative notices and we\u0027ll talk about working for the status and we have several drafts on the agenda both working group drafts and new traps for us to discuss let\u0027s begin with an oh well hopefully everyone has familiarize themselves with the noÃ«l before but in case not please do read this if you are considering participating during the meeting it covers your rights and responsibilities as an ITF participant I\u0027ve passed around the blue sheets please sign the blue sheets with your name we have a minute taker Druce gonna take the minutes do we have anyone here who could be Jabir\u0027s Drive any "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:05:48",
    "text": "volunteers anyone on Java all right so I\u0027m also logged into Java Druce logged into jabber if anyone talks a question at each other surely one of us will will see that so as usual this meeting is not just in this room we are streaming live and direct to the Internet we have some participants on meet echo some of whom are not even here so when you are speaking please speak only using the microphone please take your name before you speak for the benefit of a minute taker and anyone listening again if you\u0027re presenting please try to not to stray from outside this pink box on the floor so the cameras can continue to see just to note my co-chair julianne unfortunately isn\u0027t here you have to stay in France I think they\u0027re all still celebrating the World Cup but Julianne is here in spirit if not in body kisses he\u0027s on the Medeco so he will be listening to what happens the usual reminders he\u0027s the mailing list sometimes a mailing list goes quiet sometimes things happen to drafts which in hindsight we we couldn\u0027t understand because nothing got discussed on the list beforehand so please use the list raise any issues ask any questions that\u0027s what it\u0027s there for two unsure about anything all you need to clear anything up then please use the list and that would be great things here\u0027s our agenda I believe everyone who wanted a slot this time is - to get a slot so that should be good does anyone want to bash our agenda I think that\u0027s so No okay so I\u0027ll move on to the status of our working group drafts so we\u0027ll start with those that have actually moved beyond the working group so sadly no new RFC since London but we are making some good progress we have one sitting in the RSC editor Q this is for the LSP setup type generalization this is a prerequisite the segment routing we had quite a few issues raised by the iesg during last call and we had to address quite a few of those but we finally got about done now we are just sitting in all 48 our offers have 48 hours to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:49",
    "text": "respond to VRC editor I think we\u0027re still about three weeks into that process now free offers have replied to office of not so it would be marvelous that both two authors could please reply and we can move that one forward besides that we have early code point allocations for the staple PC point-to-multipoint draft and also the segment routing draft more on that in just a second some errata were raised for some of our already published our FCS I think these all amounted to editorial clarifications all the via writer were accepted on our base P SEP RFC 54:40 we updated a reference and RC a bt 231 we corrected a typo there and we corrected a typo in 8233 as well drafts are still in the working group quite a few are past working group last call and are sort of waiting for the next step so we have free there we\u0027re working group last call\u0027s finished and they are pending an update as in Terraria AS applicability gmpls piece of extensions and i jus i think the third bullet there w w saw an r wi extension does not waiting for an update that\u0027s actually waiting for b gmpls piece of extensions updates to to be done if anyone here want to talk about either inter area is applicability or gmpls piece of extensions daniel hello yes Daniel King so first kind of a mere culpa I think for inter area a s ability because it\u0027s it\u0027s I think years now since you might have done a review feels like very long time actually but there were a number of good comments and we didn\u0027t actually update the doctor instance but at least a year I think I\u0027m wondering is the document even useful anymore now that that Nets going to solve all sort of internet connectivity problems that aside could we get some kind of survey from the room to see if the author\u0027s should update the document because it was a you had a significant I think there were significant editorial comments in terms of improving the document as a document and I think that the major problem was because it was such a venerable document it didn\u0027t include anything on staple PCA yeah and the thing to know the question is is it is this a useful document to write and should we commies you know because it\u0027s gonna take some work to do those editorial changes and to add a staple PC which I think we don\u0027t do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:11:50",
    "text": "exactly and I\u0027m not able to pursue all though I am inheritant inherent inherently lazy yes that\u0027s that\u0027s what I was trying to get to I don\u0027t mind taking the lead and then having the co-authors review and and see if I can delegate some of those new sections it\u0027s just a significant task and I just want to know if it\u0027s really worthwhile and if it\u0027s going to be a useful document so if you\u0027re here in the room please could you raise your hands if you think it is worthwhile to have a document discuss the applicability of PCE to inter area or into a s routing so I counted for so so I think that there is non-negligible interest I wouldn\u0027t save as an overwhelming avalanche of people clamoring for it to go ahead at least there is interest I think there is some interest it sounds like if so if work was done then some people would Karen at least someone read it and now I know who\u0027s going to review the next version so yeah III can take yeah I can take that and move forward yeah Deborah and if I can remind you all this was a milestone on your charter in 2013 do we need ad approval to drop milestones from the Charter just by adding isn\u0027t it I yeah I\u0027m not sure but I suppose let\u0027s figure that out if we if we need to yeah yes I think I\u0027m the author of wson RW extension waiting for two in Pellissippi step extensions Shepherd the review thanks to Julian he provided Shepherd review comment to serial and I talked of cereal and he said he has time to update but I haven\u0027t seen any update so but if he had doesn\u0027t have time I might help him to reply to Julian\u0027s comment but I have another question is W sound RW and also staple pieces gmpls can you make Shepherd review you know being progress in parallel sort of wait just waiting for the previous one to be completed because it takes some effort right yes and I think we have done that W so not worried right because Daniel I did a Shepherd review of that already so done okay it\u0027s already done the changes are already made okay your it does you okay now I\u0027m sorry I was completely forgot about it because it\u0027s been a while okay all right okay so we should change "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:51",
    "text": "Cyril to me so we have a queue for working group last call and now is my mayor culpa for not having last called more of them in the last period I\u0027m sorry about that we are a little bit struggling for bandwidth for shepherds so if if anyone out there is interested in being a shepherd then please talk to me offline I very be very grateful for the help if you could just you know devote a few hours to reviewing one of these drafts that I\u0027m helping it through the IHG process that would help us clear the queue a lot faster than it\u0027s currently being queued in the meantime thus for the queue for last call is a hierarchy extension sacral PCE Auto bandwidth April PC pointer multi points a CTN applicability staple PCE gmpls staple hierarchical PCE that\u0027s basically the order I expect to do them in so assuming I have Shepherds available and I can Shepherd some of those I can\u0027t do the hall then will aim to last call them all in that order and I would hope that we would do that before we go to Thailand in November okay so working group drafts not on the agenda for this time there\u0027s anyone in the room have anything to say about these and the authors want to give us a quick status update or shall we just assume that they are static I drew from who are we so I\u0027ll let me pick a few PCB on we did the update recently added more examples cleared some ID Nets made sure that some examples can have ipv6 and other things that usually blocks us I think now would be the good time for young doctor review especially when the D topology and those things are moving along so it would be really good if the chairs can request for yang doctor review the great apart from that I think the rest that I am I\u0027m editor of are moving pretty well I don\u0027t see any open issues listed on the list or by offline by any anyone in the working group so if you care about these documents please read please come and find me or any other authors for LSP control for flowspec for enhanced errors enhanced errors anywhere who I\u0027m on will cover LSP shelling etc associations I will anyway talk about in the next session okay Holly regarding the draft apology has ever us actually we did "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:17:53",
    "text": "receive some comments of flying and I have to work only by myself because I didn\u0027t fun I fail to connect with other causes because the draft has been quite a long time and well my understanding is after my next update after this meeting the I think the crustal would be ready for the last call okay thanks it\u0027s Adrian Farrell the flowspec work is rumbling along quite nicely we\u0027re sort of pushing the implementation side of it now the only thing that\u0027s really sticking in my head is to what extent this should harmonize with the SRT policy work because they are in a sense similar describing what traffic should go on what path I\u0027d like opinions [Music] thanks Adrian I think I think that question was asked last time as well I haven\u0027t yet got an opinion on on that personally but if there are any srte authors in the room then please step forward and give us your opinion otherwise I think we we need to look about as as the draft progresses okay so two documents are expired but we already covered them there just waiting for updates unless that\u0027s for working group status done any questions or comments okay so the first presenter will be Drew truth I\u0027ll be talking about all the set of documents that we have regarding the pset Association and let\u0027s go this is our Association landscape you have the base Association group draft which describes the Association object and then we have these bunch of other documents that creates different types of associations we have on the left you have for working group documents dealing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:53",
    "text": "with diversity policy protection and bi-directional Association you have some other individual documents which are currently on agenda separately so I will not go in-depth for that they have a time on the agenda which is the VN Association and the bi-directional Association for srte apart from that there are some individual IDs still dealing with resource sharing and make before break as well as a new document published for segment routing how the candidate paths can be associated into an SRT policy so this is just a 0-0 over shin recently posted it\u0027s right now not on the agenda separately so this is where we are so as you can see there a bunch of documents dealing with association with the base Association we already did working group last call there was one substantial comment pending from which is regarding adding the capability advertisement for various associations that are supported we kind of discussed that how to handle it in a backward compatible way for the things which are already deployed versus something that could be useful for various different associations that are being described anyway so we came up with this approach that we will have Association type lists similar to how we do of\u0027 lists in an open message that way you can advertise that these are the type of associations that I support but we kind of made this as an optional thing and each Association type document would mandate or decide that for this type for example the policy can say that for policy you must must do discovery and it should be there in the open message before use but some other ones could make it optional so it could be decided by the each individual ID how to handle the Association discovery part so basically this was the only thing pending I think now we are ready for the next step and anyway we discussed that that\u0027s what the chairs wants to do as well now the requirements for any of the documents that specify a new Association type they need to clearly state whether they think that the advertisement during open message should be mandatory or not so that\u0027s a requirement on them and also if you remember in the Association draft we have two types whether it is dynamic association or operator configured Association or an association type that could be both so this is a requirement that any Association should clearly state that what type they belong to and if there is especially the issue of association range handling that needs to be clearly stated so this is a that swai I\u0027m covering them together so that anybody who is thinking of this work please do take care of these things as well in your document so let\u0027s go "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:23:56",
    "text": "through the updates that we have done to the working of documents the updates have been pretty small because most of the contents have been stable main changes have been because of the recent change in the association group draft so for diversity we kind of made the capability advertisement as mandatory this one is clearly stated as both dynamic and operator configured that what that means is that this diversity association can be created dynamically by a piece of speaker based on some configuration on the tunnel for instance or it could also be operator operator operator configured spatially in cases where you have the to LSPs starting from a different head nodes and it is explicitly configured by operator that these two LS piece needs to be diverse from each other and other smaller changes so that was all about diversity with respect to policy same changes again capability advertisement and a clear description about policy is always an operator configured Association next for path protection this was recently adopted after the last last ITF so here also we made two updates a one is capability advertisement mentioning that this is dynamic and one requirement that came in that to clearly state what is the protection type so for this thing we added a protection type field and the the handling is as per RFC four eight seven two so same bits and same description as described in four eight seven two has been added so now you can tell what type of protection is this when you create this association regarding bi-directional draft Rakesh made the update and he added some more descriptions based on whatever feedback that he got during the working group adoption call and which dealt with adding more figures and descriptions basically because he describes two type of initiation mechanism whether it is a single single sided bi-directional association and double sided bi-directional association so he has added those descriptions and some error handling so that covers the status of all the working group documents now some other documents I just wanted to give an update to the working group that what people are working on so please give comments to these on the list and later we can think about how to get them adopted as well so one is resource sharing currently there is no update to this document but I think an update should be coming based on whatever we discussed regarding making the how to handle the capability advertisement and other things as well there is an a document this is pretty old about explicit make before break and an association object earlier this was being done in a non association way so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:56",
    "text": "the authors have changed and used an association type and that mechanism to do explicit make before break and apart from that there has not been any big change but I think the document is technically up to date and it\u0027s fine the the last one is the new document this document describes that if SRT policy has been created and you have a set of candidate paths how do you associate those candidate paths into an SRT policy so good that we got some comments on this yesterday on the mailing list so we will be working with the authors and trying to resolve this pretty soon and come up with a new version as well okay so I think the main main thing is that we have to do is get the Association group document out of the way and that\u0027s already happening which is good and then we can decide all order in which we want to handle each of the various Association types document in the working group so please review and especially for all the other Association types we need to make sure that the changes that we make in are aligned to each other because these all documents are very closely related to each other that\u0027s it from I said thank you okay thanks true that expectation here I\u0027d like to give the status update on three drafts hierarchical PCE and stay for a high score PC and applicability of PC to actn so I\u0027m not the author of PC hierarchy but I think drew took action to update this document and I believe do Ruby snarl study also but he are basically up to date alignment other progress especially since 101 IETF meeting he updated including diversity requirement to indicate what is the domain ID for exceeding domain and so on and this update include referenced write references and creating some reference and section numbers and just to make it ready for working group last call so I think the authors believe this is ready for working with law school yes in McHugh okay so again so next one is we apply stateful a PC to hierarchy this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "was presented in 101 and we basically update Howry optimization is handled and clarify pls PID and speak identity of the using reports message from child to parents basically to be aligned with other traffic to mention here and also this one is also ready for the working with last call that\u0027s in the queue right assembly key okay here is long okay queue is long okay so I don\u0027t have to go through yeah and PC applicability actn also presented last IETF basically aligned with a CTN framework which now is in RFC EQ during iesg reviews there are some changes so we try to with that and we actually think that this is also working group that\u0027s already so all ceramic you okay we need Shepherds okay and yeah this is a recap thank you thanks you okay so the next section is to discuss a new work on PC as central controller drew the you are you doing this okay I stroke again and the help we will be talking about be CCC extensions so these documents have been around for a while but they have gone through a major update this time so that\u0027s why I\u0027ve asked the chase for a little longer time to go over these documents a little bit more in detail so a little bit history we already have our s RFC 8 to 8 3 published so we have the PCE PC as a central controller architecture and framework published this describes the motivation the applicability of both PC as a controller and a piece F as a interface between the controller and a node and all the different processing what can what kind of applicability what what kind of scalability and other considerations that we need to take if we use PC as a central controller and kind an update we set protocol for this purpose and during the last discussion in the meeting we had the agreement within the working group that yes we are going in this direction anyways and let\u0027s get with get on with the actual protocol work and the solution work and that\u0027s why that\u0027s what I\u0027m here for ok so let\u0027s have a quick description so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:03",
    "text": "basically we have two documents the first documents describes what we call as a basic mode and the other documents talks about the segments routing but both documents are quite well aligned they use the same extension and the same objects and same mechanisms as much as possible in the basic mode as it describes in the RFC this mode is nothing but static LSP configuration you have a controller he calculates the path once the path calculation is done along the path he instructs the node to take forwarding actions so what we call these forwarding actions are nothing but central controller instructions and we have kept the name little bit generic for the reason that this central controller instructions could be mean to do multiple things for example it in this case is just an MPLS label download it could also be SR s ID SR v6 so multiple things are happening so keeping it gender ik as a central controller instructions is quite useful but in this mode we have described about MPLS label only so once the LSP once the labels are provision along the path it\u0027s same you have for this LSP this is your out label this is the in label on the transit node and this is your out label this is your next stop all that information will be pushed from the controller right to the device just like any other SBI s DN SBI kind of protocol it this will change things that you have a piece obsession across all the notes along the path and you are using that session to download information so that\u0027s the basically what PCC C is it\u0027s not rocket science is pretty straightforward so how do we do this via P SEP first thing that we need is we need a new path setup type the good that we have that already we will define a new path setup type that this will be PCC C so you get let\u0027s start an ingress since a report message says that this is a PCC C LSP and I\u0027m delegating it to you handle it so PC will calculate the path but once the path is calculated along the nodes of the path it must send the controller instructions in the older version of this document we were thinking of creating new messages but we got the feedback we listened to the feedback and we kind of think that it is actually nothing but an initiate message but with a new object which is the CC ID which is the central controller instruction so you identify that for this particular LSP I am downloading this instruction on this device and of course we start with egress then transit that ingress all the labels are downloaded along so this central controller instruction could include just the out label in label and out label just the in label any combination "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:04",
    "text": "is possible and that would be supported and identified by a unique ID once the labels are all downloaded we update it to the ingress or by the way your LSP is up I downloaded you can start sending the traffic pretty straightforward so that\u0027s what\u0027s happening so your basic report update message from ingress they don\u0027t change much this they remain the same only thing is they have a path setup type that clearly tell that the setup type is PCC see the other thing that would be changing is these any shape message going through all the notes along the path and downloading whatever is the label instructions that is needed for PC initiate not much changes again the only difference would be that you when you initiate to the to the PC that I intend to create a PC cc LSB and get the LSP ID and other things from it the main reason that we are doing that is so that we can get those identifiers because we want to put the same identifier later on when we are downloading the instructions this thing this is only done for manageability reasons so that we can equate oh this central instructions was actually done for this particular LSP so that helps us with figuring things out rest of the things kind of remains the same and you have the our flag for cleanup if you want to ever remove it is it a clarification question yes you can proof in hallway the instructions that\u0027s turned sequential over in parallel so how the controller synchronize basically it waits from the slowest usually it\u0027s up to you but the one that we usually follow is start from the end towards the front and then you good thing is we have report messages anyway to clearly say that oh I have a feedback an acknowledgment coming from all the devices that yes the labels have been downloaded so I am pretty sure that I can now send the traffic and what if some of them are report error and others report success I will help you okay thank you understand from Nokia the POS PID being associated to the transit is that an optional characteristic of this or is it a mandatory characteristic right now it\u0027s mandatory so in the case of PC ECC obviously it\u0027s a generic for any type of label or you want to use but if you\u0027re using with srte it kind of defeats the purpose that\u0027s why I will talk about this little later and that will be the this is the basic mode when I have the SR mode I will so that\u0027s why the CCI object we kept it generic and it LSP is mandatory only in this mode ok ok so now let\u0027s talk about what if I need to make a change into my LSP what will be my make before break procedure in this mode well because you are changing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:06",
    "text": "the path you must have new set of labels for that part you first do that operation go ahead and download new set of labels along the path whether it\u0027s the same nodes or different notes it doesn\u0027t matter but you do this operation first once that operation is over you send an update message to the ingress asking him oh by the way now you have a new path so we will still tell him the part he will not do anything with it that ero he will kind of it\u0027s only for his information he doesn\u0027t have to do anything the label signee wait downloaded all he has to do is switch the traffic to the whatever is the new label of new out label that he has at the ingress so once he has done that and we have a report message that yes everything is fine then we can go about deleting all the old labels that we had along the path pretty standard procedure nothing majorly new here as well but we will do make before break procedure especially for this mode and as because Unicode need new set of labels you need to make sure that those labels are downloaded then you move the traffic or on the new path and then go about deleting the labels from before so we\u0027re gonna have another clarification question what exactly you\u0027re making in this case so basically is it just at the tool or it\u0027s the new path end to end if you would not aa new button then type up and a part so why do you need the entire path you need it for RSVP because in RSVP you can do only end to end signal in fact but in this case you you just can do the tauren and then just walk yes basically we will not differentiate them for us it\u0027s a part modification now in this part modification if there is a cases that I don\u0027t have to change all the labels and I only have to change a few yeah it\u0027s allowed doesn\u0027t matter the procedure will remain the same right so it\u0027s path modifications no but it\u0027s not made before break that\u0027s what I\u0027m saying okay we will talk about the terminology part I know this works let\u0027s fix the terminology in the document I will discuss with you okay moving on now we will come to the segment routing part so what is happening in segment routing is that we are using we already have PC for segment routing where the label stack can be calculated by a pc e and push to the ingress so what\u0027s new here the new part is even the SRS ID assignment can also be done by the controller and this is also discussed in the RFC in the t\u0027s working group so basically the s ID allocation can be done by PCE and pushed to all the nodes in the network or the notes that actually needs it in whichever way that can be figured out by the PC ECC so what kind of what must happen that there must be some label space clearly allocated to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:06",
    "text": "PC so the PC will make this allocation so that means to be done and then from that the node s ID or prefixes ID or Acheson CSID can be allocated by pc e and pushed on to the device the rest of the procedure to talking to the ingress doesn\u0027t change you just prepare the label stack give it to the ingress and the rest of the segment routing works without any change there would be a few things that we need to take care things like identifying clearly what the node is so for that purpose a piece of speaker currently in P sub we simply use whatever is the TCP IP address to figure out how do we reach the PCC or identify a PCC so we wanted to make that very clear that it should be better if the node we used in traffic engineering is advertised at the time when the session is getting formed from a PC so so that I can map them very clearly so that\u0027s something that we have added in the document as well so what happens and what are the new things that you need first no LSP in this case we have a new object which we call feck which kind of describe basically what is this central SRS see CID belongs to so in this case since it\u0027s about downloading node information the effect is points to the node ID and all that details related to that so basically think of this as simple node distribution via IGP things remains exactly the same only differences it is the PCE that\u0027s allocating this ID and talking to all the nodes and downloading that information but what should be then what should be actually downloaded on to the device that\u0027s still done by the node Spacely then how to figure out what the next stop should be that depends on the IGP information running in your node and based on just the s ID and the and the fact is coming from the controller yeah just the claret and Andrew from Nokia just a clarification for the previous slide about doing the correlation of the TCP session to the router ID that\u0027s being embedded in this draft would it make sense to export that into its own standalone draft so that way for all piece up integration you can correlate the P sub session to what\u0027s been advertised into the Ted we can talk about okay now Jason see not much change here only difference is you have a different fact which kind of identifies both both the end points of that edges in C but rest of the procedure kinda remains the same and then let\u0027s move on so these are some of the common procedures irrespective of whether we do basic mode or SR we need to worry about what if VC goes down what if there\u0027s a session down how do I handle this when "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:06",
    "text": "would I clean up instructions that I\u0027ve received from PCE most of the things we are piggybacking on the the mechanism that we have for LSP anyway so not much difference whether it is an LSP cleanup or it is a cc central controller instructions clean up we rely on the same procedure that we already put in in our state for PC drafts so using an initiate message instead of putting a new message also helped us with this procedure quite a bit that now we can piggyback on the state timeout in the world on all the procedures that we already have clearly listed out in our of C at 231 and we don\u0027t differentiate too much whether it is a SR LSP or RSVP TLS bu the way we clean up LSP State on the device it\u0027s the same way we can clean up the central control central control instructions now we also need to worry about who the delegation procedure a little bit that is if the PCE that senses this instruction is that B if that EC is no longer there what do we do with this is there a way as the LSP get Sri delegated to a new PCE the central controller instructions which were used for that LSP also needs to move along with that so in the document we have kind of explained the procedure for that this is yeah excuse me uh-huh absolutely I didn\u0027t really very carefully all this kind of read allocation part but I would like to extend a little bit because pcs actually covers a larger scopes and they are sweepy as it has its own range of nulls and corresponding earth peace so I\u0027m wondering besides the case at one piece it comes shut down or or other kind of failure stuff is it possible to also consider the overloading of one single PC and so that some of the errors piece or note can come over to another piece of pcs domain you already covered that or I think we have covered what we do it for normal stateful LS B\u0027s so I think there is an overload mechanism even in 8 2 3 1 so we are piggybacking on that we are not describing anything new but we can discuss if there\u0027s a need for something new to be add ok discus your risk and just one more comment when failure happens on the network sometimes it requires to reroute numerous Willis piece right so the vertical signal and the way you describe could in theoretical antek by a provision in a revision of multiple recipes at the same time by combining the instructions sent to the same node with respect to all LS B\u0027s have you considered that yes yes ok good thing is initiate message allows you to club a lot of things together so we can definitely do that so next is the synchronization part so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:08",
    "text": "if the our session temporarily goes down what will we do again LSP state synchronization mechanism helps us quite well here so we don\u0027t differentiate too much these are just CCI when the session comes up during the LSP DB synchronization state we also synchronize all the central controller instructions that we have received the difference would be that in case of in case of LSP it is the PCC that\u0027s sense all the LSP is that it has and the PCE takes the action in this case also we want to do the same thing we say that PCC will report these are all the central controller instructions that you gave me before you went down now tell me what do I need to do is there any change so it\u0027s the job of the PCE to maybe use initiate messes to remove some add some and handle and unhandled it so kind of very similar to PC initiated LSP just think of if a PC initiated LS peas were sent from a stateful PC to a node and their session goes down whatever thinks that the PCC has to do for State PC initiated LSP the same thing it needs to do for central controller instructions because at the end that\u0027s what it it is it\u0027s just a one half LSB as as we were discussing earlier we have lots of optimizations that we did for LSP state synchronization all of them RFC 8 2 3 3 and as well as is a document that we presented the last time which is about state synchronization across species all of them continue to work with EC CC mode as well so which is a good thing that we don\u0027t need brand new procedure we can piggyback on things that\u0027s already they are there of course to support this we need to do if ability advertisement so we will have a capability TLB and we follow the same same changes that we did to path setup type and make it a sub TLV to the to the capability tlvs etcetera and s bit is for PCC see a PCC csr mode and the basic is for PCC see the changes to P sub message basically inside your PC initiated message you added a central control this central control would have two modes one is with LSP which is the basic mode and one is feck which is for the SR mode and we would have CCI list spatially in case when you need to download multiple labels you could use the CCI list as well so this is for initiate message and this is for report message the report message helps us both to acknowledge what is the controller asking is to do as well as during state synchronization when I need to report or what what are the set of central controller instructions that are received earlier so that\u0027s why we modify both initiate message and the report message this is what the CCI object looks like it has a type 1 for basic MPLS label and type 2 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:10",
    "text": "which matches closely to how the SR s ID descriptions that\u0027s there in the IGP drafts so you will see things like mt ID algorithm and all the flags that are associated with any SR s ID and that\u0027s where what we have here but this is a simple case where only we talk in terms of MPLS label ok and this is the fake object as we know that their defect could be for multiple cases for ipv4 node ID ipv6 node ID adjacencies unnumbered adjacencies and like there are new extensions for path which changi will also cover in his talk so the we\u0027ll all be basically what are the different SR SEC for which I am creating this s ID okay so what we have done as if you will do a history the draft has changed quite a bit based on the comments that Adrienne gave John gave that try to reuse which has actually helped us quite a bit so thank you for that and now B though we had an implementation on the older versions and we did work in hackathon and bits and bytes on the older thing we are now in the process of refining and moving to the new procedures that we have listed out in the documents we have kept it aligned to what we have in 8 to 8 3 as well as all the recent work that\u0027s been done in P sub working group and we hope that like you know this document can quickly be adopted and this could be a solution for cccc architecture the TrueView asking for both drafts ok all right so I\u0027ll ask for room just before I do that can I just go back to here so tell me again what was so yes bit ECC CSR ok so if I if I support PC ECC but not SR and I set that to 0 yes and if I support PC ECC and PC si si si I said that\u0027s the one yeah what if I just support PC CCS are not the weak why are you about it ok I think I can handle them I\u0027ll changed yeah maybe I think this is a historical thing because the way I had the messages being described in the previous document you were kind of dependent on those messages to do si now you are not so I can change this ok yeah I think they\u0027re independent yeah if I\u0027m like yeah right ok so and then that brings us to you the question so we have now two drafts talking about the PC CC protocol extensions one for what you might call regular Bay mode one for segment routing mode so I will ask separately first the basic mode please raise your hand if you have read "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:10",
    "text": "the strut all right that\u0027s good us about 12 people so plenty of people have read it please raise your hand if you would like to see that adopted into the PC working group that\u0027s babbling so 12 people so that\u0027s good support and then the same question for the segment routing draft please raise your hand if you have read that ok so it\u0027s about 8 people and please raise your hand if you would like to see but adopted into the PCE working group it\u0027s the same that\u0027s about 8 people ok so it looks like we have some reasonable support within the room I think we can take that simplest body all right thanks troops over next presenter is Cheng Li hello everyone I\u0027m Charlie from Huawei Beijing so my topic today is per segment in he said so basically we the motivation is in several huge cases such chests and chain one plus one like pass protection by the rational post correlation or like performance measurement like we need the ability to implement pass like identification in s s up networks because you know especially in SMPS networks the the label will be pop-up hop-by-hop so when the package reached the egress note the aggression or can not identify which the post the packet belongs to right so we proposed the path segments in draft chun spring amperes pass segment and also similarly we proposed s a v6 pass ID in s a v6 network so which which defines a pass ID to identify nan as a as a v6 post so for configuring or allocating the the path ID to enhance a path so extension in P step is a knitted right so so basically we make several things such as base pass ID allocation and conveying it with with in peace app and then the the PC controlled ID space advertisement and whether the PCC should inform the PC the the ID space that should be controlled by the PC so based on the past segments the bi-directional passed correlation extension is defined "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:11",
    "text": "as well so we propose three drafts the first one is roughly pcs upper segment which specifies extension to the receptive support past segment identifier allocation between the speakers so the second one is Lee PCEs are by the restaurant pass so in this draft it defines the precept is tension to grouping to reserve the reverse you uni-directional as a passes into a teapot by the rational process last one is about the mechanism for PCC to inform the receipt of the I ID space and it\u0027s controlled by precept so let\u0027s take a look up the first draft in this graph that we specifies a magazine mechanism to carry the s up past identification information in P step so we support multiple multiple models to to allocate the pass ID for example the power ID can be allocated by the inverse PCC itself and then informed to the PC so the PC should then inform the icarus PCC passed identifier information and then the the next one is the PCC could also request the piece each allocated to allocate power I T so in this case the PC should educate and inform the assigned it pass ID through ingress and egress PCC using the piece AB messages and the third one is that like the PC can allocate the pass ID directly on his own accounts and inform the ingress and egress PCC so and we also like plan to add some text to clarify to describe the the another mechanism another mode of allocating the pass or ID in this mode the possibility can be allocated by the the in eager PCC so the PC should request the the eager PCC to allocate and as poss ID and then it should inform the ingress and egress PCC about the post ID education so so for support supposing the the asset allocation so we meet some competitive tracks in s RPC capability and SRV 6pc capability theories so we basically define two flex post and them the same we call it pass post "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:14",
    "text": "identification bit so it should be sent it should be set to when we need to like require the pass ID we need to support like it should be said when the P piece P step speaker support which we supposed the the piece outside the allocation so for indicating past idea log request PFLAG should be like added in the air speed object as well so in the PFLAG must be set in pc request and peace report message when the pcc requests the pass ID allocation so in a system is similar so the the P Flags must be set in the PC reports and PC update and his initiate message when PC replied to the power side allocation requirement yep so for carrying the post ID information we create a new tier we coded personality in in the errors P objects so Sara fields are defined you that the first one is ID t ID tag field which defines the type of a post ID and zero means emperor\u0027s pasa segment which is a amperes label and one means s rv6 post ID which defined in the drafts at least bring passive P m4 s f6 and P so the fraks we currently we define three flags error flags for local global pitch see for PC CPC and E for egress and ingress imposter ID field which can the the the value of the past of the pass ID so this this field that the pass ID time is like indicated by ITT ITT right so as as we introduced before like the PC should inform the egress the usage or the information of the personality allocation are abiding mapping information so we used instant the procedures of ID child PC t-cell extension PC controller so by defining a new like FEC object to inform the post ID identification information to the icarus PCC so one or more foreign terrible earth divided for for for like into describing the outside information such as a symbolic post name and our sphere identifier and a speaker entity ID Tara wish so the past information possibly information can be encoded in this like ERV so that the PC can inform "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:17",
    "text": "the icarus PCC by the FEC object and also the CSI object so this is easy instant how to initiate to introduce the PC allocated pass IT mode on its own accord so as we can see from the picture so the PC could like maybe it can like use the PC in initiate message to increase to initiate our CP an SP o own as a pass with the possibility allocation by the post ID govt within the air speed object and then the e inverse P PCC would report the error cos a post installation if it is successful and reports the PC by the PC reports message which the defrag is set right so after a confirmation the PC should like inform the egress PCC with his initiate message carrying the EFI\u0027s object because to pass and a corresponding CCI object so in this way the the egress PCC could understand and lend the mapping information of the past ID and and the detailed post information so the second draft is about the by direction of heart by directional I suppose Association group is tension in in peace app so so for associating to like as a passage this document is defined a new Association group called the double side bi-directional as a past Association group so with within this Association group the US s hypothesis information can be like describe or conveyed by this object so a number of the double side bi-directional as a pass Association group can pick the road of a forward or reverse as a pass yep and if we need to like but request bi-directional as a path computation requires request so the P flag in our P and s RP object must be set yep so providing the these two si houses the pass ID trv in the objects must be carried to identify as a pass yep so this is this is the example example to describe the PC is initiated "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:19",
    "text": "by the rational rational pass and in this example we can see that the he can like use the piece PC update of his initiate message to install the bi-directional by the rational pass into the ingress and egress PCC so yep the third one the third draft is about it\u0027s about the PC controlled ad space since we all know that the idea of PCP she said extension for PC controller and the SR mode draft specify the the procedure of PC protocol extensions for for using a PC Essen central controller in Essen air walks or the the basic mode yep but in these two drafts they assume that the label range to be used by the PC is known and set on both pieces appears so for solve this problem we specify the extension to support advertisement of the various ad space such as amperes label and pass I as a v6 pass ID space to the PC so that the PC can allocate the post ID directory and then dynamically yep so this is the procedure of how the PCC and the PC is changed the ID of the PC showed ID space as we can see from the picture like we need in include the SR with six post ID control space all the label control space which defined in this document currently in the open message to inform or exchange each other like how which range that the PC can be used actively yep so this is the example the format of the label control space TV as we can see that the fraks we only define on one flag called a flag means all space flat oh space of the ID space and we maybe we we have like several blocks of the ID space that can be used by the PC so this kind of information can be described by the products which combining the of the stars and wrench information so this is the the format of the label control space govt and the SF is expose ID space theory is similar so thank you any comments yep so you\u0027ve presented "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:24",
    "text": "number of drafts I\u0027ll try to yeah so in the bi-directional LSP Draft okay you\u0027re only signaling associated to the speed but not crowded why sorry you are not signaling her out its associated means they share head and and tail and but they don\u0027t necessarily go all the same nuts when we did in velocity pick her out it seemed to be very important requirement the reason you are not it\u0027s like a routed congruent oh you mean Kuroda and associated actually we we don\u0027t want to mention about what is Co routed or associated it can be corroded or it can be associated it whatever if you have no means to request you see it\u0027s not going to compute it in current version we did not solve this problem maybe it can be solved in the next version about the Co routed like I\u0027d rational pass or the associated yep thank you number two so you\u0027re assuming that every device in the network has this obsession this PC so you\u0027re flooding right you mean this one it\u0027s a generic question because as you start assigning path IDs which we potentially could use to match SR policies to to do some analytical analysis because there\u0027s no context it means that you would have to push its information every device in the network that\u0027s the intention no I suppose the paucity information should be land by the ingress and egress router or the PCC only because the puzzle Edition shinobi like inspect by the middle nose it should this is how I increase my counters yeah if you want to make some like Milano\u0027s accounting it should be but this would be discarded by the other drafts like the the the main idea published proposed in the spring yep you\u0027re using PC as the message bus it looks more and more like Kafka than I mean you\u0027re flooding information that has to be known by every device in domain doing through PC doesn\u0027t really skill I don\u0027t think we need flooding so if you want to do account inclusion pass ID which is the main application it has to be known on every device where packets with potentially Traverse true cuz it would trigger increase encounter and some reporting back right so you wouldn\u0027t know in advance where your packet would go to so meaning you will have to push the permission every device through this obsession for now we we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:24",
    "text": "only push the information into the piece ingress and egress PCC we don\u0027t like consider the information or this is a main application yeah the beauty of second charging we remove the state from the network the ugly part we remove the state from the network card later on Swing to what Jeff was saying so I agree that accounting is one of the use case but in this document as of now we are not talking about it yeah we are talking about just setting up a bi-directional LSP and note noting the path ID allocated either by the ingress or by the PC to the egress but I agree with you when we do path accounting by this this is a problem that we need to handle yes this is a generic problem for PCC CSR anywhere not just because of path ID we are in that boat where we are using P SEP as an SPI where we are talking to all the nodes so this is something that we need to anyway handle yes exactly thank you so any comments no thank you the last speaker is Danny le while we\u0027re waiting for dummy alley tickets my front where are the blue sheets is anyone sitting on the blue sheets is anyone not signed the blue sheets please raise your hands okay I think they\u0027ll they\u0027ll make my way forward and then you can you can sign thank you okay so this is I would say rather than an update a revival of of the overdraft that we presented a while ago it was last presented in ITF 98 he talks about piece of extensions to make to share awareness of of the fact that LSP is a belongs to a virtual network construct why this because this is we will see in the next slide this is something that makes VN operations simpler how do we do that didya is to use the Association object dissociation object simply takes a number of LSPs and it creates an association between them we need a new type of our substation to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:25",
    "text": "explicitly say that this association means these rsps belong to the same user network there are also two new TL visa the file defined in the in the draft one is the virtual network TLB and another one to carry vendor specific information changes since last version since it was up for meetings ago there are quite quite a lot of them basically the actn framework changed a lot and we tried to reflect the changes here also the Association group changed and we tried to keep the pace of that topic basically we we changed the capability advertisement and the procedures for dynamic association other things changed them basically is the specification of the details for the virtual network TLB and the Ayana part which was a little bit poor in the past rationale for doing this work why do we need the be an association as I said this this is needed between the parent and the child PC to share information about the virtual network a given LSP belongs to does the child PC needs to be aware needed to be aware of this information yes in most cases it\u0027s useful why first of all the child PC is a responsible for peer domain LSPs and sometimes also the the child PC of the ingress domain is responsible for the entire and to and path it is possible that in the same domain controlled by the same child PC there are several else piece B belonging to the same virtual network and having a different English and egress nodes within within that that domain so why there is the need that we have this information optimisation it could be that a request against the LSP is of a virtual network is - I don\u0027t know share as many resources as possible so knowing that those LSPs belonged to the same virtual network allows to do the party computation which maximizes their usage of the same resources or we need the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:25",
    "text": "diversity optimizing the diversity and so on second finger is again knowing that different LSPs belong to the same virtual network allows us for relaxation of constraints sometimes is not possible within the same domain to provide super strict constraints that are requested the two against the virtual network the most common is a total diversity it might be possible that there\u0027s no way to accommodate such such such requirement knowing that those LSPs belong to the visual network it\u0027s possible to relax the constraint against the virtual network and maybe go for partial partial diversity I think this is basically a visualization of what I said so far probably the only addition is the fact that local policies which are usually implemented within a single domain or PR LSP can be can be applied at all this all the LSP is belonging to the same virtual network next steps well the document has been even if not presented not to discuss recently has been around for a while is pretty stable I would say that the latest changes significantly improved it then that is the question why adhara so giving for granted that this option is is useful which might not be the case to you to decide that there are several ways of implementing it the usage of the Association object seems to be the the right approach you are bursting from hallway so the question is I understand what you are saying it\u0027s it\u0027s a good idea but maybe it could be done in a more generic way basically to say that this is association with a particular mercial Phyllis piece or a set of tunnels rather than to bind it necessarily to the virtual network there could be applications wider than virtual network for using measures or philosophies for example I do understand when you do say modification and you can do make with a break for entire mesh right so this is a good Association to use for resource sharing and things right but yes yours is a good point I mean there are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:28",
    "text": "different types of Association already existing this is just a new one which could be specific or generic I mean mmm the way the Association is defined is already generic in the sense that you are free to define as many tea also be Yogi\u0027s as you want so what I\u0027m trying to say that say in tears when we are doing t tunnel model and we are considering things like t tunnel sets right so and we do not envision that this T a tunnel set would be only you say for virtual networks okay so that you obviously all the tunnels that will do on the chi tunnel set will have the association you\u0027re talking about but what I\u0027m saying is that you might need I don\u0027t know Association type 32 is for realtor networks 33 is for I don\u0027t know any tie either type of yes ways you can associate LS play so I think you know Tenniel it is easy oh I think ego is saying that this is it can be covering more that\u0027s just fortunate talk but tunnel said we cannot define another TLV photo no set and we can broaden it I think that will satisfy you right that that was my my reply right sorry if it wasn\u0027t clear okay thanks so I are you asking Danny always for an adoption at this point as usual have you ever seen a presentation not asking for La Scala for adoption I saw what earlier this week okay so we\u0027ve got some good feedback from Eagle But notwithstanding Eagles feedback I think this has been around for a while some for first time we talked about it it looks like it sold some necessary part of a CTN so I\u0027d be fairly comfortable asking the question who and who in the room has read the draft got about 12 people again and who in the room thinks of this document is a good basis for adoption few fewer maybe 10 okay so I\u0027d like to keep talking with the Eagle for example to address his comments you can do about on ballista will be good meanwhile I\u0027ll talk to my co-chair about doing a poll all right and that was the end so thanks for coming and we\u0027ll see you again in Bangkok "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:07",
    "text": "[Laughter] "
  }
]