[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:09",
    "text": "[Applause] they have changed the microphone you can know if you can hear what I say that\u0027s great um so why don\u0027t you have a seat good enough you\u0027re not that many so there will be only one Russia today again we are looking for scribes new trick and uh well re is presenting so but maybe you can fill in re good okay so by friday i think you all know the IP our principles so i\u0027m not going to repeat them but you can always go to this place and look them up so this is the agenda we originally produced for today and as graph Mulcair said about 150 years ago a kind plan you believed in Aston fine contact so sorry about that that\u0027s going to change a little bit okay you\u0027re the note-taker unless you can do all that is at the same time but it\u0027s a little bit stupid it\u0027s better right so we have a little bit spillover from Tuesday we will talk about cinema and the rest of the discussion probably is going to be a little bit compressed because we have some people who couldn\u0027t come to the meeting so this will be a little bit faster so the agenda changes are pretty much we are going to talk about the pending proposal it\u0027s not a pending proposal it\u0027s a proposal for a pending response code because peter has to leave right after that then Michelle and Alex will talk about the work meeting they have had with ayanna about the CID a location so maybe there is a plan forming and I think we have to be aware of that and then we can go two of us co-op and we can do the actuator and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:13",
    "text": "request tag discussion in the halls coop segment and we will discuss the state sages proxy a proposal in the open discussion segment and michael has also come up with some issues about pops up so we can discuss them under the working group items because we have space left there so that\u0027s the plan I need anything else we need to fix on the agenda plus I don\u0027t society em if you have you already sorry I\u0027ve just coming into the room the SMS thing is in is own agenda SMS your front left in the transporter alright so this thing okay so if you can I can I know it\u0027s unfair but can we switch it to the beginning of other things so that I can just share like what I need to do before leaving yeah some future and you both have to go so Peter came first so sorry then you okay later okay thank you for taking to account my reservation mistakes so so the motivation for this work is that we have this we want to do bootstrapping and in Boots tracking we want to use the EST and in the EST part and bootstrapping there\u0027s a certain moment that we ask and system is this not really a note that you belong here and that might be answered automatically immediately or it may be that Tom asks an operator and timed goes on so what we want is that arise in weight and this kind of behavior is supported in HTTP with code 202 it does not exist in two in in coop so we are proposing a two point 06 this looks why don\u0027t you specify that in the draft there is an other traft which is called eels which is also proposed in in ace and in that they do the same thing button using escola I also talked to one of my buck knife guy friends and he said yeah this will be very handy to have but we have sometimes those long waits and then we should say whether the information is rated so that\u0027s the motivation from separate draft no one ok now the details I\u0027m almost finished here depending response indicates database and response "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:15",
    "text": "coming and he tells you where to find it and it tells you also something about the timing for rate so much time it doesn\u0027t say yet in this draft you should not wait longer than this but ok thanks hope for comments from the working group to make that two clear-cut plant has to retry vision gets recast after max age and this can be done in conjunction is observe sounds okay is this interesting for this working group I think it is but you are the working group article and I think we need this for the observing the pubs a broker something like this we\u0027ve been discussing a need if you have a topic but it doesn\u0027t have yet publications something like this could be useful good so let\u0027s let\u0027s figure out the details but interesting lovely please read the draft and comment yep us real Dave Robin I would agree with this I think this is very useful um could you speak a little bit about the motivation for saying not only the the answer is delayed but that it\u0027s over there mmm if this seems to be a twofer who seem to be doing two different things one is a one is a redirection which could happen at any time um I\u0027m we could add that as a feature you know any time or in this I\u0027m going to get back to you but come back to me so I\u0027m assuming that the redirection is optional for the moment of either external is there and tells you on the on the server side where it is located it does not tell you that you can\u0027t find it to Egypt for example okay I didn\u0027t follow sorry it\u0027s a in the windows in the response in the response there\u0027s a location and the location is attached to the surface site right okay so having the location in a different site in Egypt for example it\u0027s not included in the draft so if you wanted more flexibility in bed of responses please let us know I\u0027m sorry so the redirection redirects me to a different resource on the same device or is it a full you are i ah no it\u0027s don\u0027t fool you\u0027re right at this moment why would i redirect to a different resource path in the same device that might be handy if you do maintenance and you get several of those respond and you haven\u0027t template m2 m3 m5 I see okay well i was actually intrigued by the idea of real oak of reed location because theoretically you ask me but my answer comes from my big brother over there who\u0027s going to support me in this answer might be so oh it\u0027s nothing right because women from the floor microphone so we already have 503 in co-op which is something that clients need to consider "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:17",
    "text": "in their state machines so this would be another way to indicate that a request should be retried and I think we have to define what the differences between them okay and we also i think need to think about whether this isn\u0027t we more application specific here instead of something that every co-op client out there has two to understand so that there are other ways of doing that so i just want to say let\u0027s discuss this a little bit return for japan discussion here will be very happy to discuss this yeah okay thank you so that\u0027s it I\u0027ve been quick not too much office pill for me thank you ok let\u0027s go ahead to the transport thing too many slots oh my god I have a go-to I thought it might be faster this variable of oh area um okay so this was my my status slide on the SMS GPS document so the original ultramarathon Marcus Baker had changed jobs after working on this in the University of women and well it has been picked up by lightweight m2m in uniform right now the lightweight entry and document is heavily under specified so it might be good idea to actually finish this and what we now have managed to get a new editor team out there and Thomas you wanted to say something about that it\u0027s the one society yes well just to note that we we want to help with this whatever right so we will get in contact with the current pool of authors to see who\u0027s a who steal there and then you know because or just provide the knees before acid the the thing that is important is exactly what you what you say so do ma lightweight them to everything\u0027s okay and the fact that we need both bear coop and whores coop and TT TT LS protected Corp so we both ladies DPP or the udh thing that we specified in 7925 but you know we figure out how to push these things into the droid rapid so the there are new office "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:19",
    "text": "editor\u0027s there the main change that was done at this in this round was to retrieve the parts from from an expired raft that were referenced so the text from the trip miss draft was integrated so it\u0027s not a safe now a safe containing document and I\u0027m hearing you saying we want to finish this now yes that\u0027s good feedback so is anybody aids in this room interested in finishing required or SMS document to it okay i\u0027m also interested yeah so Carrie is interested so alex is interested so people are slowly waking up okay I I think we do have critical mass for this soul I think we should now try to finish it\u0027s just another thing to notice we want to make sure that you know if we have to reduce their good points in NC then we will help with that as well okay yeah so the main discussion that we were having was an open point is how do you actually identify an SMS as one that is carrying co-op are carrying Gutierrez and markers was proposing these TP feet which makes sense for some kind of scenarios and then we have the dtls thing it needs the UD h i7 we\u0027ll see ya so I think we can discuss this on list but this is really just a minor items but that it needs to be defined to forget body pic single ok so why we are at this thing I can show the other slide as well so there is also a document that we are not going to discuss here the protocol negotiation document by Bill he\u0027s not here this time but he also thinks this should be revived given that we now have much of a transports it\u0027s becoming interesting how to do this so expect some activity for this on the way to Prague and this will be used with SMS but also with curve over TCP and web sockets in sir ok Thank You Thomas hello everyone so I\u0027m now fully awake so I can give can give you a short overview of what happened this monday so this is in the context of the whole work that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:20",
    "text": "will be having here around the comma I work and on Monday we had a meeting with a lot of people from the from the net net not working group and it was announced on the on the mailing list so it was very uh it was very there was a lot of interest in the room of almost 20 people in a small room and actually the thing is that the people they realized well we at the core we\u0027ve been working at efficient ways of using young young for yang for IOT and the people at that boat they have at that man they\u0027ve been looking for ways actually to have efficient to improve efficiency of their data over by using binary encoding of the yang data so you have these two things and then at some point they say well you know this match is pretty pretty well together so let\u0027s get around and let\u0027s discuss what we can do with it so it was the first time that we all met and it was a very lively discussion and the outline is that everyone is pretty much converging to see bore for the binary encoding so that was a really great discovery for but from both sides and the a lot of the discussions were around well how do we using what what are the seats right and how are we going to be using that so there are a lot of questions about the allocation policy you know how do how will this work eventually in a non constraint environment like when you are using them actually for to improve your efficiency and we get a very useful feedback and actually we get the discussion started so that\u0027s really really interesting a lot of interesting questions out there so the first recommendation was that you know we should really specify that the seeds are 64 bit and they are 64 bit but it\u0027s not like explicitly said there and on the wire we\u0027re actually because it\u0027s ybor encoded it\u0027s very very efficient so it can be one bite three bites five bites and so forth and some other like mine are questions that that should be answered that should be asked and this leads me so did there was this meeting like one hour meeting i think it was Carson was there two hours two hours two hours but we didn\u0027t see the time and the time goes are pretty very very intense discussions so this is why we with Michelle we are presenting like an update of the sit draft here and a question to the working group if we can modify very slightly the contents of the draft as in from the other from the output of of this meeting that happened on Monday so the SID draft has for its like a very short draft on 20 pages and it has four items there that forward for things that are treated that are addressed the first one is what\u0027s this SID well this way we\u0027ll say okay it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:20",
    "text": "like a 64-bit integer the second one is how do you represent actually the seat file so the mapping between the young items and you know all the young elements and the city so it\u0027s a JSON format and maybe there are some minor things to adjust but like generally it\u0027s pretty pretty stable and you have running code on this and then there are two other policies that the two questions are like the CID la the seed file lifecycle how does it happen exactly and the allocation policies how do you allocate the exactly how it works so it\u0027s all always there right now in the in the draft so the first two points are pretty stable and there are some minor adjustments to make on the third and fourth point so this is a slightly adjustment so in order to answer the fourth point which is the allocation we had discussions during the week with ayanna representatives and really go go back and forth with them on how do we set up actually this registry in case you have not done yet I would really recommend you to read there is an RFC on this I forgot the number it\u0027s very very interesting to see how registries are actually created so what we propose here is to keep the two-tire system for registration of the cid numbers and so the first tire what we wanted actually to clarify the terminology so because their range is ranges ranges so we have the first year that is dealing with mega ranges so a mega range is actually containing 1 million seats so this is like it corresponds to the name and so we have like we have the our 64-bit space and we are going to be using like the first 100 million and all all the rest are reserved space so this means that if somebody anybody wants to touch in this place they need to go through an RFC or go through some approval like of heavy approval process of the FG ITF in order to be able to touch this place then the space that we have here we subdivided in mega ranges of size of 1 million and in order to allocate a arranged like 1,000,000 mala minion seat so to someone there is an iono expert review procedure and these are the things that that must be supplied and so you go to ayana you ask for if you ask for your mega range and then you get allocated a million sets so this is the first registry that is created the second registry is then what do you do so so then of course you do like whatever you want with this sits but we will put in there there is a policy that you know in that you cannot just go and randomly do stuff with that like there you should explain what what you\u0027re going to be doing the first 1 million of these seats are actually there are some pretty important numbers over there and also you want to have iono I tgif the the preemption enter the ability to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:20",
    "text": "actually use these seats right from the start so the first million is right from the bat allocated to ITF and it\u0027s so this is the second registry these are two separate registration their credit in the same time and so in this first million like from the seats from 0 to 1000 are reserved so they are for ITF so they are not reserved because reserved this is a special work in the terminology ayana so they are with IETF review so this means that we must have an RFC or there must be there must be an RFC so that we specify how these first numbers will be used there are very precious because they have a very compact Zeebo representation so we don\u0027t want to take to make this wrong right so we need to take some time and some experience on feedback to know how to use them then we have the numbers from 1000 to 60,000 that were for RFC so whenever get an RFC you have the opportunity to put in your RC well here we die Anna must allocate numbers for this RFC like it sits and I when the Earth\u0027s it\u0027s published then you get your seats put in there in the document by iono there is also a possibility to have pre allocation of this so now this is like a standard document or any RFC that is out there then we have experimental use experimental use from 60,000 to 100,000 so typically this is where you\u0027re going to be using this for your development cycle and from 60 from 60,000 to 100,000 which is specification required so you must provide some way that you know there is this open specification and there must be an expert to see yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s working yes hong kong\u0027s girls when you get do you want to take questions at the end or in the middle go ahead no answer so encouraging and on the experimental use is that like a temporary allocation where are you expecting to those two to be permanent no these are the day will be temporary these are like for development you should only be it\u0027s like 192 dot but are they still police but by an hour or is that this is just like the equivalent of local spacing in the market riffs or for a triple really for your lab you should never so the gullet of locally administered the mac address let\u0027s see mmm no it\u0027s so interrupt Aston yeah that will be a good test but they can complete yeah there\u0027s no sir yeah sure sure that can become 16 they can so it\u0027s like you you have your module you develop your on your on your lab or something and then a range that is reserved but it can conflict there\u0027s no garage exactly exactly Dave Taylor so on that point the RFC that\u0027s the guidelines for writing you know hi any considerations that defines you know I Jeff fer FC required specification "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:21",
    "text": "required and so on does talk about experimental and it actually references bcp 82 you which is RFC 36 92 and so it might be useful if you just cited that as an informative reference in your document when talking about experimental so that people can actually find the answer that question for a visa that\u0027s good okay thanks thanks very much so actually this was one of the things that was named a way by the way yeah thanks Dave so these are actually terms that we saw in current version there are some slight like language things so as you say like iono they have like a strict definitions of what means what and this is like an update that we would like to make to the draft like to go jip to adjust pretty slightly the term terminology so that you know it means what iono people want to share price that they understand what you\u0027re talking about so this way right off the bat we create these two registries and we can start using sits to the iono process so I\u0027m skipping above slides and you can go on to the to the slides if you want to have some more detail like there there is detailed explanation of all the things that i present it now so here is the question of that that we would like to ask the the working group is is it okay for you to make these site changes like introduce the mega range as a as a term real just a little bit the sizes so that we have these really good chunks of 1 million seats that are allocated because this is not in the draft variant and also this is one of the inputs that we received from the like from from this from this meeting is that we need to provide more examples of hot double the life cycle of a yang file how it will go like there are some use cases like you develop your CEO yang you request your seats then you insert them or you first request your seats then Europe then you develop your yang you know so there are a couple of use cases like this and we would like to add examples that for each one of them so that people can say yeah that is this really about what I want to do fits there or you know okay I want to do something and it\u0027s not there so I would like an example and you know through this example we\u0027ll probably see okay so there is a thing that we should add in the in the draft so this is the thing that we would like to add to the draft as an appendix and as the next step is will like also to have a meeting at the next I GF with the same people or people from that know that are still interest interested and probably create some kind of mailing list or something or a place of discussion because it seems that like we have these two community sites the communities of IOT and crystal like constrained devices constraint networks and the communities of young like routers and stuff and there seem to be this like this intersection point that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:22",
    "text": "starts to appear so you know we need the expertise of both and we don\u0027t want to like the create like just a binary representation of something that will not be applicable to constrain devices nor do we want like completely to ignore the young community the yang community so there is this intersection point that is starting to appear select if I make contact with a chair Don so in the discussion on monday 11 suggestion would be was if there really is so much interest in having a binary version of yang Yang data shouldn\u0027t this be done in the network working group and I very mentally protested against that the network people know what yang is but they don\u0027t know what constraint devices are so we try to take that work there and it didn\u0027t work so it should stay here but that that creates this tension that the actual yang experts are over there and the network working group so we have to find out how to work with them and if you look at this schedule we have to work pretty fast to be done in december 2016 so I\u0027m not even sure that we will have that much to discuss in product so it has to be done between now and plan so we don\u0027t don\u0027t incur even more delay there that way then we have now oh I think so here too so that that was also a desire that we have for some of the people that are very implicated into this so we want to deliver and we consider that there are some minor adjustments but all the principles and when we agree on on many of the base principles so we would like to deliver possibly before the next I GF and then see like meet and discuss all this so if you agree with the proposed changes we can just go ahead and like submit a new version or like so submit a proposed text so you can comment on the mailing list and then just go ahead with normal process yeah so I think it\u0027s good to version of the sig document that reflects these discussion so i would encourage the office to actually do that a change that doesn\u0027t mean that the working group has has to be before you submit the next version of the document but then of course it would be a good time to actually look at it because then we will want to do work clustering of last call at somebody Alexi Markov have you talked to iono about the sub allocation and how happy are they do this I assume it\u0027s it sort of look "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:25",
    "text": "sensible but I would like to have their feedback before we actually send the document or HD and just cover it there yeah so we will talk the couple of times several times during the week so this is like we did several iterations we simplify some things and yet clarified other things and we if we go ahead with a document and modify then we\u0027ll send it also to them so that they really ahead of time and they say Oh guys okay good job thanks have a question as well on the part of automatic seed registration yeah um is that documented anywhere other than in the slides in the presentation so that\u0027s actually a very good question thanks thanks hymen so I actually would would get this out of the draft I mean it\u0027s not in the draft there yet because automatic registration is like there are a lot of cavities that that are that are there and if you try to solve them right here with this will actually slow the draft and you know it can take like an eternity so what we would like to do is go ahead with this draft at least we have this standard way it is defined way of doing things and then we create a the first registry that will create that is like the second million actually there we will of course through idea iono process then there will integrate this in the policy this automatically occasion the goal being we want to see because we we want to have machine so away from machines to automatically register these type of these type of identifiers but then we hit the problem of like space exhaustion you know you can just have a land grabbing like a server going and just say I want them the whole million so then then you go so this way we want we need to have this rate limitation mechanisms that are integrated in this and yeah we\u0027ll travel this how it works it is the first met like the second million actually if we see that it doesn\u0027t work well we go back to the drawing board and you know we at least we didn\u0027t spoil the whole space right but the important part is that we have the whole registry and we have the thing working for all the rfcs and all the documents all the public documents where people can go and say hey by the way I have my young file over there on my public document over there and I want to sit so they can go through ayana it could be pretty pretty rapid but you know it will not be automating ultimate iced Thank You Jessica Oh John who wants to talk wonder how does this looks it\u0027s only once like good yeah so this is some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:27",
    "text": "introduction to a boat to the same changes in osco up as well as an independent overview of the per packet overhead of different co-op security protocols yeah d so I only have one slide this will be quite shortly if you want more detailed information find it in the draft the overhead for detail as one or two is quite well known and these are these are some typical sequence number some of the pepper-pecker packet overhead depends on the sequence number DTLS has 29 bits overhead TTLs 103 and TLS has quite a bites less overhead the overhead is still quite large when you do compression you can get it down quite significantly and and this is the generic header compression then you get typically 16 for a one byte sequence number and mm let\u0027s see and then you can see that the you still get quite small overhead for TLS with the generic had the compression the compression is not as good and that\u0027s because this tactic dictionary is basically DTLS head there could could definitely achieve some a little bit better compression but that would require different static then I for comparison included another compression algorithm I shaheed rasa which he said that he would submit again which is static which make it different from the generic header compression yeah but main goal with this table is to show how dtls compares with the latest version of Oscar well we this was a request from 60 to minimize the per packet overhead that has been done in the latest version and as you can see the packet overhead numbers for us go up is now significantly smaller than DTLS TLS even when compression is used for that and a square can accomplish this by using cosi seaboard and and by being incorporated into coop coop is the reason why the response can be significantly smaller than the request but Francesca will go into all the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:28",
    "text": "details of those co-op unless somebody has any questions on the compression ever had is a chair what do you think will be the disposition of the structural and I don\u0027t know what does the working group wants to do another the information is there d did want working group on to do anything with it welcome it sounds like useful information to have with us co-op so new bring it to an appendix there might be something of course there\u0027s always a little danger that this then becomes contentious but I still think it would be useful to maintain these numbers and as OS choir changes and maybe even dtls 1.3 changes it\u0027s useful to have these numbers updated yeah boy I just wonder if this would be something useful for albuq possibly you could also present this in another wig especially since like El Vegas there are four numbers and and guidance yeah could probably present it next I Tavian and we good system yep dave heller so the Carson\u0027s question what about maintaining it on a working group wiki which could then be kept up to date as you know numbers might be reduced or added to if there is extensions or whatever so that would least allow it to be updated and still have an official location so that sounds like like a request to set up a record-breaking what should we probably should be doing anyway yes isn\u0027t github or that yeah so HTTP this has demonstrated that you can use github nicely for a working or blending page and that\u0027s certainly something that we want to emulate here and and that would also allow us to a tetrahedral that landing page and that might indeed be a good way to maintain that information I can maintain the numbers it you put it somewhere yeah thank you hello yeah so I presented this on Friday and one day yeah sorry Tuesday and at the end of the session so I went really fast so maybe I should just stop at some slide that was really jumped almost the changes so as John was saying we did some changes to reduce memory usage and per packet overhead the weather requested by people in sick station also from other people so in general for pub packet overhead we did some cozy object "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:28",
    "text": "compression that is explained in appendix right now so there are no sequence number in responses this is a change the sender ID is sent in the request instead of the context study this was changed at gym suggested and then max age and Observer has special processing that is more detailed in the draft right now and for memory user reduce it reduction that we reduced the security context and we modified the the way replay works so we only have replay window and not sequence number that\u0027s included in the replay window now okay so i think that unless we want to discuss more about the block wise issue and the request tag and what do we do with that Keston anybody so as I said I think so yesterday we had a bob off on firmware update and and we briefed briefly touched the issue of doing a black wire transfer of a new firmware in such a way that you actually get rolling mac software for every new piece of data you get you know it\u0027s still integrity protected and you can act on it right away instead of having the way to the end of the transfer so that\u0027s at least a requirement an objective that could come come in here yes so I think that that needs to be fixed for us club so how do we do this so do we have a so christina has submitted this draft to request that draft that yarn talked about on Tuesday so either that stays separate separate draft that ausco up good reference so normative reference or if that\u0027s included in to us co-op even though it\u0027s some parallel work is not it\u0027s not a valid it shouldn\u0027t be there only for us coop other work may reference it to later yes this is Matias yeah so um for block to we need the e-tag and this recommendation to use it that you know it\u0027s the same representation and there\u0027s no equivalent because etec is something given by the server so it\u0027s a good thing and it would also help in other cases that independent from Moscow up so yeah I will not do it as a sec so the only thing like to include that work i think was to not stop us go up because that would normally reference so and then you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:32",
    "text": "know it would take longer and and and i guess that a core would have one more draft to we tend to have these customer we tend to have this the small housekeeping draft so i dont no way around that now one thing that came up in horror discussions is that this request tag obviously has to have a certain amount of entropy twitch if you want to a survivor reboot and things like that and while you are doing that you might also want to carry entropy in the repeat option or something that is similar proposed by the actuator draft so one way to reuse the overhead of the whole thing would be to actually carry both pieces of entropy in the same option so we will use the request tag to also indicate the the freshness of the request so if I\u0027m understanding Gaston is suggesting to put these two extensions or new tools into one document or in your document we still can discuss first again they should be close together because they may be sons of the Trinity of optimization the other yes leukocytes also speaking as a co-author of the Oscar drafts i\u0027m a bit concerned that the document is growing and growing and growing and I think it\u0027s 40 pages now that\u0027d be a good thing to put in two separate document I mean it\u0027s for block wise which is a separate draft so I feel in order to like attract people to read or squat and also now that customer nice to not grow it into a monster document I don\u0027t know I am I\u0027m happy to be convinced otherwise but I feel we might want to have another document just about that just the point like Caston was suggesting to put the numbers that John presented in to us co-op and I also have the same reaction as load vague like the document is already very long so if we can keep that separate it Jim no just a second we have our cake you hello I hope you hear me now okay I\u0027d like to come on the thing about entropy the point of of requests tagged as it is raised currently is that we don\u0027t that we usually don\u0027t need to transfer anything in there at all so there is no additional entropy because on the request tag is um just just a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:35",
    "text": "detail more to add to the existing connection so as long as you stay up um it\u0027s only valid from one end point to the server and um you usually don\u0027t need to transfer information there at all so you can have it zero byte or even absent and if things get worse you you count up one two three but um this shouldn\u0027t ideally transport entropy at all Thanks thank you Jim shot ic0 reason to put this in the coop document this is a block wise issue and there\u0027s actually even no reason for co-op to refer to it as a block by Zhu shin so I mean I would just have that in a separate document for clockwise and go there we do want and i also want to read that I need to talk to Carsten but it\u0027s like I couldn\u0027t figure out why you would need entropy in here I totally agree with Christian is like is a unique counter on it on a particular link and that\u0027s it okay we don\u0027t want those go up to support block-wise though so we would I mean I\u0027m custom born again speaking from the floor yes we should discuss this but what I wanted to point out is that why is the key observe and work wise extensions to correct our separate documents that doesn\u0027t mean that any other extension of Korea is valuable in any way without supporting them so i would strongly recommend that extended to coop managed to deal with both observe and clockwise I mean cos cob we were planning to again I want to reiterate we are planning to to monday the use of this and recommend the use of repeat option anyway this is I think more discussion of where should that text be should that be separate should that be the inos co-op what\u0027s the best way to get that out this is Matthias again for this request tech I don\u0027t know if you should look at it very narrowly that it yeah it\u0027s just part of the connection or something so the etek is something to identify a representation so that you also know that it\u0027s the same representation that you can cash it and so on so there\u0027s actually quite a lot of mechanisms connected and we at least should think about those when discussing the request tag I don\u0027t know if Christian wants to talk keys oh oh yeah [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:35",
    "text": "those things that work for attack don\u0027t work that way for request tag because um this isn\u0027t a representation of a resource in general it might be for our for put but even there um the the e-tag would have to be determined by the server so this caching and and general uniqueness doesn\u0027t work out for request tag anyway I just want to make sure that you really thought about this and fought about every angle because it was like now let\u0027s take a counter day and it just comes up that\u0027s all we need for our small use case that was just input yeah so I think there is work that needs to be done here I think there should be we should have a little bit more thinking about which documents result from this work but the work doesn\u0027t seem like it\u0027s really hard so it should be possible to finish it in the same timeline as with the other a square work independent of how many documents make sure result from that I think that should be the objective here and the objective of course review that request tag actually is good enough to give you the security properties you need so we cannot develop it completely independently you need to understand what security public is courtney chan to make sure they end there okay thanks moving forward another document secure communication for co-op or multicast O\u0027s co-op the motivation so this this was presented last ITF during the unofficial core meeting so I think there are no recordings of that but this is basically the same presentation with the updates so the motivation for this work so the group communication for co-op RFC I quote in the future to further mitigate the threats security enhancement need to be developed at the IDF for group communications and also we had some request form Cora mailing list and also in person at as soon as IDF 95 to do this work and also there is this the ACE draft that reference is also up to secure group communication but it doesn\u0027t actually say how to do it and this draft and I\u0027m presenting here fills that gap explain how was co-op is use for that and is also use case independent so the main features of this draft it explains how to use of co-op in group communication and supports multiple listeners and multiple broadcasters it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:38",
    "text": "confidentially it does it provides confidentiality integrity and replica protection so it defines what shared key material is necessary to protect the communication within within the group using the O\u0027s coop mechanisms and it provides source authentication so it uses digital signatures which are embedded in the cozy object so in in general one thing to remember or understand from this is that it uses the same structure constructs and mechanisms than oz co-op this is a short picture to remind you what a squad pass so secure end-to-end communication in presence of intermediaries it binds the response to co-op request and protects payload of co-op message but also parts of header and options and multicast does co-op does exactly the same thing but for group communication so it also adds some details as i was saying before so for example the broadcaster needs to store the its own public private key pair and the listeners need to store public key of each broadcaster yeah and and also specifies things like recipient context that are used for verifying the multicast messages can be derived at runtime so we have updated disrupt and to add up to adapt it to Oslo up we have done some restructuring following some comments from from last presentation and we also have other to join Faure\u0027s so how do the notes get the keys following also comments from idea of 97 these slides is to just mention what are the differences with us go up so it defines new parameters they\u0027re not sending the message as a xenos go up so it defines parameters that must be sending the message defines new parameters like transaction identifier and adds a symmetric keys and also adds countersignature in the cosy object so yeah and I also wanted to say that there is an implementation available based on contiki and Kentucky and European yeah any questions maybe just one observation from from the East working group I don\u0027t know that everybody was here but there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:38",
    "text": "is an ace proposal also found Francesca for an ace profile for pops up and we looked a little bit more closely and found out it\u0027s actually an ace profile for group communication so I think some say something nice is developing here that we get a suite of interrelated and interoperating documents that allow us to do group communication with correct the group communication doesn\u0027t have to mean multicast that may go through a pub sub broker other information distributing entity either the point is we get into end security for groups and that\u0027s pretty good please watch this please comment so we are always looking for more views or comments or feedback so please there is a github and okay if no comments then I can move to the next document that a custom put in the agenda I think so i just wanted to give a really brief update of this one it\u0027s the requirements for co up end to end security and it\u0027s interesting because this came up in the intern thing to think RG meeting in Amsterdam so we others feel this drafty stable we have planned to include some comments from Jim and otherwise we don\u0027t really see other other and adding more content but if you do have more content if you have some feedback please formulate this because it to include more things we need of course clear requirements and clear the scenario that you would like to see in there and we always welcome more abuse so looking at the document I wonder whether the term requirements actually is a good way to describe what this document does to me it really is a security considerations document I mean it\u0027s phrased in terms of requirements but really it means what do you what do you have to make sure that you actually get right before you can have entrance security and so I think it\u0027s actually way more useful than you got variety requirements document that it kind of becomes uninteresting and when you have the security in the way so I\u0027m wondering what what would be a good good way to further develop this document so we could somehow try to merge it with the general security considerations documented the research group or so who has read this document or previous version of that so a few people who are interested in security have that\u0027s not that everybody here is working on 066 people approx so I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:44",
    "text": "we have to work that out but maybe thinking about the title would be the next step to make sure that we really so when we fall into the requirements trap that we feel like this is a useful document and it was very useful for us to to put it down because it weird many things that we needed to develop a solution yeah so if Cora wants to move forward with this Thanks I America KO I just actually took a quick look at to draft for the first time I\u0027m actually a co-author over an ipv6 considerations document for ipv6 under the OPSEC and so looking at it because it\u0027s quite lengthy right it wouldn\u0027t figure really fit into a security requirement or consideration section and any other document but it might be a separate document for security considerations yeah so we often when we actually have to write the security conservation document for other documents we often wonder what can go indie and having documents it can be referenced yeah where you can point a specific sections and say this is addresses this that would be very useful de theatre I\u0027ve only skimmed it your aircraft and read part step but I\u0027ll volunteer to be one of your reviewers make your thanks anybody else who volunteers for giving a review so who has already reviewed this started freshman Jimenez okay so we are getting some treasure here thank you thank you I think merica volunteers falling back it\u0027s right already there ok so the we are somewhere or agenda which is really confusing because we have kind of covered most of the items here so the next one is cinnamon we should try to do this in about 15 minutes ok let\u0027s try to do this in 15 minutes um quick update on what happened since last time mmm the few things we discussed in previous meeting was like report formats so you copy paste sentimental packs in mac and windows environments just more registration the media types fragment identifier support that\u0027s all one section defines how use fragment identifiers to add to select a sentimental record in a pack so it\u0027s nothing that you would send on the wire but would be actually process on the on the end point pretty simple thing that we swallowed up after the sea CSV format fragment identifiers the small update in the exi scheme ID so on the text is smoker occasions and now actually they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:45",
    "text": "compress exi person few bites smaller than it used to be and bunch of editorial fixes then there was a request to add more units this discussion started around the RSSI and the receipt single strength indicator um but it seems that it\u0027s more about that we need a new unit for power level which was missing currently there then the question is do we also want to have something for our SSI which does not have a unit because usually that our SSI they are vendor-specific so our suggestion would be we add the d BW for power level whatever power levels then the question is do we also want to have something vendor-specific we already do have their a unit that tells itself it\u0027s a fraction so you can whatever third one hundred percent of course do we need something more for the RSSI case or does anyone care we can also do this later question is do we want to have this in base back Carolyn so if it\u0027s vendor specific I mean how would it be used without knowing the vendor of the device is sending it exactly alright thanks yeah so you would need out of any information some other context information zone so that is the question how much use there is for that okay so I guess we\u0027ll at we are ok so if no one objects will add the first one that\u0027s kind of obvious it was just missing in the unit in the unit table on at the second one maybe I can also relay that Cullen who is one of the courses here who\u0027s in has to be another meeting indicated to me he doesn\u0027t want to add something or SSI specific at this point in time because we can do it later and we can do it right then him ok so we\u0027ll leave the second one for later perfect um then this issue was already discussed in the previous idea of meeting and then Christian groves wrote even along craft about the issue so the thing is currently if you want to extend 10ml you can put their new attributes cinnamyl tags because all of those are ignored so you won\u0027t be breaking existing implementations however there are cases where you guys need to understand the extension in order for the whole pack to make sense and one example of this would be the bto that Christian was proposing so the base time offset telling what is the time difference between the each pack if you don\u0027t understand this option you would think all dolled up all the sediment records are at the same time which of course wouldn\u0027t be the case so Christian rock day along draft about these are looking into different possibilities how to address the issue "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:46",
    "text": "actually Christians draft in the proposing media type parameters for this um I did discuss this with a bunch of you guys here on this meeting and a lot of pushback for the media type parameters seems that they are not widely supported and didn\u0027t seem like life right thing to use that space and also there was an issue what happens if that s animal pack is actually not transport over HTTP or kawada to earth media types of horizontal file or even database that doesn\u0027t indicate the media type you would actually lose that information so outwardly suggesting exact suppose number three in Christians on draft was a whip select a character that indicates that in new tag is mostly understand and then we could spend more than 15 minutes discussing what is the character and where to put it um sorry yeah so let\u0027s say we could we would suggest okay let\u0027s put underscore the end of such option the benefit of this would being that ok probably underscore is not that you spying right now it is clearly a different kind of character but it\u0027s not too special so many of the systems are you we dump this animal probably would not barf if they see underscore and also if you would start with underscore that maybe would have more special meaning and ending with it so seems roughly saves choice to use that okay I see people noting I see no one running for the mic so we\u0027re gonna do a pull request on that and if you think it\u0027s a really bad idea please do let us know but for now it seems like them sensible way to go forward okay an excellent maybe we will be actually done in 15 minutes yeah because we want to bury get done with this yeah the whole set of Mel is way overdue we are not really last call it\u0027s being used by other organizations and etcetera and we are really wanna want to get this done so question is is there anything else for the base specification of course there are already plans for a bunch of extensions for example Christian has a has one maybe Kristen you want to say something about it right away you want Christian\u0027s on the line you wanna hit the button hello um yeah um but I\u0027m not so much about extensions here um but on needed for the base bag um as I understand things I\u0027m what link what core interface is currently doing um will not work with the specification with respect to how names are interpreted and I\u0027d very much like the the link for more offers to to review that thing because I think this is something that will limit the usability here for sin ml so this is related to the email threat "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:47",
    "text": "that you posted on the h tag right yes basically it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s still the name versus your eye thing and currently this doesn\u0027t work with with a base bag um or maybe it can be made to work but i think that the link for what people should collectively look through this again um before we cement names that we can later use okay so link for my guys please have have a have a look at the issue so that the key of that is and then how we form the names from the base name is that there is no the semantic search concatenation you take the base name you take a name put them together that\u0027s it the other option would be to use uri semantics there but that is quite a bit more complex than just concatenation and that would be it\u0027s a really big change on how do we do then do the name so there Christian has it as a draft and no is there a draft reset an email thread right now that such as to use also the age ref all right now right now it\u0027s on this email thread okay so except maybe would make sense to post up as I said as a draft too because I think you had a quite a lot of good text on that easier to reference but the quickie question is now do we need to change something in the base back on that I think that makes sense to have a separate tag or attribute that has the URI semantics but I would be cautious against changing the semantics of the name but as Kristen said please I\u0027m doing skies have a look at this draft see what is the issue can we do something about it or do we do we go forward with what we have right now but please do it as soon as possible cuz really wanna start last call on this okay and then final issue we currently use the plus exi in the media types that could be an issue eventually it doesn\u0027t exist so we cannot use it fixed so ad guidance yeah so there is a draft on registering exi suffix on which net commented and i started commenting and then i finally decided to read w3c speck of XE and to figure out what the restrictions are and well I I think of actually a suffix registration draft has to be done first so it has to be a normative reference or whatever so what my views that we won\u0027t finish the the Exies suffix registration in time for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:49",
    "text": "for cinema takes more work to define the fine points there ok well the question is their mind if the document is you know being hauled in their publication in RFC hsq not good yeah that would be an issue of course question is how long but preferably not well Carsten is one of the editors so known excited oh c\u0027mon so if you upset with him talk to him um I think I probably will be okay with sponsoring the excise suffix document but I need to figure out whether it\u0027s actually a good idea in the first place so uh yeah I i think my opinion is a more well inform than it was before the meeting be as I are at w3c documents so I\u0027ll try to send some emails on this so for those who are wondering what we are talking about the structured syntax suffixes + XC VN plus X and evidence on a min to allow processing of a document even if you don\u0027t know the specific media type but only understand the suffix and that works well for Jason for SIBO and so on but XC is often transported in a schema dependent way so you have to have the schema to do that now on the other hand XE has a schema ID in the header and you can use the schema ready to find that information so yeah there\u0027s a but I if its transfer the air now and you don\u0027t know the scheme ID then you cannot do anything with it so yeah then you can bow there is a fine line there that would have to retire yes and the separate thing well maybe I\u0027ll talk with people who are interested I I\u0027m trying to figure out where the scheme ID is actually in use much and what exactly it means and I\u0027ve got several uses of it but if there are more uses of it I would like to know because it makes the situation worse it\u0027s much better if it\u0027s actually disallowed for for the suffix but you know I don\u0027t know what is practical so the other observation is that structured to take suffixes don\u0027t really mean very much for co-op because so you are only seeing the content format number so you are not even seeing it exactly so we we might as well just wear first of all XE is kind of a real case the second of all the Russia\u0027s syntax doesn\u0027t bring us much so we might as well just go to minus a key instead of plus XC + @ Viki well in this case the situation well yeah your drug just goes away and or is it a phrase to you know help more like don\u0027t register the suffix just have instructions or you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:50",
    "text": "know some informative language how to implement this potentially yeah and then it will makes it much easier ah yeah so switch the plus to minus and be done with it that will be the solution yes I think so okay but I\u0027m happy to have a separate discussion on whether plus of X is actually a good idea in general so so I have some other documents that would need that so they are not yet available but so we will stay on the plus XE thing we will try to discuss this but we should not make this document be dependent on that discussion okay okay so for this double and we go for- a at exi and plus CX i will continue as well yes works for me as long as we get this done and speaking of your document now I have reviewed it in September because the milestone said it will be done in September so which here lovely 2016 um so yeah get it done yes there it is okay um so I think we can skip the slides on how to do the media type parameters and so on and move forward to pops up knows where they\u0027re lucky why don\u0027t you come up yeah meanie yes mr. kicker okay update on the pub sub draft we we removed basically we\u0027ve gone through and we had this idea of rest function sets and profiles and a bunch of stuff that was in some early drafts that never no one ever really used and never really went anywhere so we\u0027re going through the drafts we have in removing that language and just referring to them as you know api\u0027s or something else maybe we can even think of a better word than API but the one thing we did was removed all of that and we\u0027re just calling these you know rest interfaces basically to not have people think there\u0027s more than there than there is we had a request to add post post "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:52",
    "text": "operation for publishing in addition to put and added that also added tentatively put for create and publish these were discussed in at the Berlin meeting and they were brought up in the in the working group and they don\u0027t know how much discussion we had but there\u0027s there\u0027s stuff there in the draft now that people should look at and we should have some more discussion now that the strawman sort of Strama and stuff in the group and then we get a lot of cleanup based on some comments and feedback that we got now there\u0027s some issues since we\u0027re now on the core github we have issue tracking and all these issues are being tracked on the issue to a clogged github issues should discovery be mandatory currently it says you have to support discovery of topics should create a remove topic be mandatory basically there might be some lightweight implementations of pub/sub that don\u0027t need to support all this that have pre-configured topics and are configured through a configuration tool of course the issue is that\u0027s sort of a a little bit of a limit to interoperability in some cases but it may not be such a big deal so there there\u0027s issues and then of course these are being tracked so we can discuss them all in a and we on the mailing list we had to find 2.2 04 no content but 204 has already changed on update so it doesn\u0027t seem like a good idea to use the same code for one thing on on unfettered and different thing on update so we\u0027d like to go to 206 and then this other thing about 206 pending that\u0027s really what we want we want to return a response that says the topic exists but the data are you have either not been published or not that a valid haven\u0027t been expired because there\u0027s this concept that data lifetime and upset so we\u0027ll probably work with the author of that other thing in come up with a good proposal for a new co-op response code that indicates that the resource exists but the data are not valid right the post on create of course using post we thought well we\u0027ll create a list of stored representations and then we can gain some reliability if you can\u0027t publish or sorry if you can\u0027t notify as fast as things are being published you could have a list there that would allow you to sort of catch up and notify but that\u0027s best sort of internal behavior and we have a different idea there too and then alesco app profile the group the group you know the idea of having a group profile that works for both pub/sub and multicast is good but we have this broker this case where you can just do publish and subscribe between two nodes where one of the nodes sort of has a built-in broker if you will and so we want an OS collateral file we want to see if a special profile might be needed for that case I don\u0027t know haven\u0027t looked at the question yet that much but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:55",
    "text": "okay then this is the last thing I don\u0027t really want to enter a discussion but there\u0027s this idea of there there is a way to increase the reliability of notifications looks pretty good and that is to have subscribers create a list for just that subscriber so I\u0027m a subscriber I want reliable I might want to behind the net i might want to sleep it\u0027s part of the use case and the idea is that things are published to that list and then i can go back later and retrieve them or observe them and then the last thing there is sometimes reliability will be improved by having a different pattern than observed for getting notifications if i want notifications push to me i should be able to configure a web web callback address in other words a uri that the pub sub broker uses to publish to me to push notifications to me and that that that whole thing could be added to pub sub as a reliability enhancement and we also thought maybe that maybe if we wanted to move pub/sub ahead and not not do that it could be a separate draft a reliable reliable subscription using core pub sub or something like that that\u0027s all I have any questions ok so thank you for that update this is a working group draft and it would be good to get more reviews just to get a crick indication with red to recent version of this document ok that\u0027s what 10 thank Mia is actually which version or the latest version could you raise your hand the last one the latest version right ok we have about nine minutes left militia are you on there can you go to you hello hi can you hear me no yes ok great your first slide showing yeah so hi everyone my name is Melissa would reach I am active in the sixth ish working group where we work on bootstrapping thank you next I place you\u0027re breaking up up so to turn off your camera so you can you see yes I stopped I stopped my video is it better now much better okay great yeah so as I said we work in six stations secure enrollment protocol for six dish networks and we are using co-op as the transport protocol they\u0027re more that said we use co-op proxy "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:55",
    "text": "functionality as a way to get the messages between a new joining node that has only linked local connectivity and the jrc that is multiple hops away while working on that or we well sure you can\u0027t really hear you we can\u0027t do anything on your side to to fix the audio I only wireless can I can\u0027t connect ok so meet echo is already trying to fix it so militia if you don\u0027t mind I\u0027m going to Carol go to your slides for four minutes so we use the last seven minutes we have so the basic idea is that we have a very constrained node acting as a proxy as a co-op proxy and the other thing is this is a node trying to join so we don\u0027t really have that much don\u0027t we know very much about the client so any client could come in and do a request that is then proxied and the problem problem is it creates state in the proxy so you have a token you have UDP port you have an ipv6 address to be able to send the response back to the original client so we are building in a nice gos vector tour to the registration system yeah and the idea is to have a co-op option that could be used between the proxy and the server where the proxy essentially ships all that state it would create locally to the server only to have the the server send it back to the proxy when the response comes so the proxy can act on it immediately so it never has to store the information that just hands it around this does require a little bit more communication but it does relieve the proxy off of actually adding state and by the way a proxy could have five slots and when the five slots are full it could start using this option so it you don\u0027t always have to use it it\u0027s just something you can use when you are in the US are otherwise overloaded situation so dead of course tip a question on the slide ages if you go back one slide I noticed the our column is empty does that mean that this is designed for our limited cases where there\u0027s exactly one proxy in between it is not interesting to ever have a case oh there\u0027s two proxies is what I\u0027m gathering because the r is not allowed but that\u0027s a very good question so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:58",
    "text": "think this this should be noted on something to read set up so in the six ish case actually yes there is only one additional up application e I hope but if we want to make this more generally applicable it\u0027s worth considering right and this is dave taylor by the way and so if we wanted to then you\u0027d want to do something like allow it to be repeatable and have the order be important that you\u0027d always like at the beginning and strip off the beginning or something like that in a response so great thank you good point so this option obviously a security properties so we need integrity here we need freshness we may need confidentiality so some work is required for for the proxy to do this yeah I don\u0027t know the details of the proposal of the top of my head militia can you talk again now it\u0027s not that and cure ok ok I think we\u0027re completely lost him so but I hope that that the basic idea has come over here and I think that that\u0027s an interesting proposal it\u0027s always good if you don\u0027t have to keep state legs ya Alexander a short question here so this basically says he\u0027ll all the server take this stage for me and give it back to me on on your response so can we have it like a more generic one so not specifically for this joint just say okay this is the state give it back to me but we already have something like that ed Okin Yeti talking yeah but it\u0027s limited to eight bytes so eight bytes white might be a little bit too little yeah the JK and you try to speak again okay so i think the mission for the segment is achieved people know about this and i think it\u0027s a good idea to look at how general we want to make this of course this is then be coming at us vector for the server so we have to think carefully "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:59",
    "text": "about that but so who has read this draft I mean it\u0027s not even a car draft I think okay good so we have made people aware of that and I think we are at the end of the agenda only having one and a half minutes left so my last slide is see you at the interrupts so it looks like we will do something in the second week of me that\u0027s where we are converging but we will set up a doodle at some point and see you in Prague I\u0027m leaving in three minutes yes much like I said hmm you "
  }
]