[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "can we there was an you asking about money doesn\u0027t show it looks like it\u0027s coming there it just isn\u0027t showing okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:30",
    "text": "good afternoon and welcome to the DC working group meeting everybody should note that note well if you haven\u0027t noticed already the blue sheets are going around if somebody was willing to be a 1/3 pad note-taker that\u0027d be great anybody okay and I\u0027m Bernie volts one of the co-chairs and I\u0027m Tomica Mugen hello okay so we\u0027ve got four things the first one we\u0027re into the administrative history via we\u0027ve got DHCP v4 over dhcpv6 source address option the yang model some new potential work the link layer assignment mechanism for HP v6 anybody have any agenda bashing they need to do or is everybody okay with that order alright just want update people that we did get the recharter approved thank you Suresh and the isg for that we also have updated our milestones and so we have a few things that we would like to potentially get in for this month if we still can but maybe it won\u0027t happen there are a few drafts that are probably in question there the for Srinu and the bootstrap options but maybe we are ready to send the dCPP for over six address assignment option on and hopefully we will be able to get the 3315 biz work into the RC editor queue so Russia is working on that and I think we\u0027re just got one more comment that needs clarification or to be approved and then we\u0027re ready to go you know the review that was done for the during the ITF last call that there were some director reviews they were also the iesg reviews ended up with about a hundred and forty comments they there\u0027s a lot of comments but you know some of them were like there\u0027s one that it could have just been one comment but it ended up being like 30 comments okay so we we did the update to that you know most of them were minor a lot we\u0027re just typos were like cleaning up references and things like that one major change was suggested which was to reduce the hop limit count which is how many relays you can chain together from 32 to 8 the 32 you know especially they got 32 going one way 32 going the other way somebody thought that was kind of ridiculous and there could be some latency issues and other things so you know and I don\u0027t think I don\u0027t think relay training is most sites probably only do do one relay you know I don\u0027t know of many that do more than one we also had cleaned up "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:32",
    "text": "some I Ana action and we improved the terminology definitions and the consistency of use there were there all good comments it\u0027s just a little tedious going through 140 so we do want to get it to the RC editor as soon as we can and suresh says it will go yeah so I searched Krishna so I think he\u0027s likely just minor things like just some checks and get it on and I really want to thank you guys for like doing the spreadsheet for tracking this I don\u0027t know if like it\u0027s like visible to everybody but it\u0027s like I think you posted on the list right and I think it does like really really helpful because without that it\u0027s gonna have taken like much longer of like you know stuff or emails on thank you very much for and and you know I mean we could have used the the github issues tracker or you know the IETF tracker but those tend to be a little bit heavier maintenance work then just doing it with a spreadsheet so at least that\u0027s what I thought yes and it was super useful for us as well so yeah alright just an update on the working group status we did publish one RFC during this time well the editor did and that is the general ICD P source port for DCP relays we hopefully will get one approved for publication and there are two working groups that are currently active that are both on the agenda one working group document recently expired which isn\u0027t on the agenda which is the bootstrap options and the author of that document has changed employment and you know he he may revisit the work in the future but for now unless somebody else is strongly interested in taking it on it\u0027ll probably be put aside and just be a dormant working group document to be awoken at some point in the future but if anybody is really interested in pursuing network they can certainly you know talk to us and the author about maybe taking over that that work to get it get it out there are three related drafts one is on the agenda which is the Mac the two others are not there\u0027s actually now a fourth document that is in the related sections but that won\u0027t be presented today maybe in Montreal we\u0027ll see okay in the quick hackathon update so as you know there was a hackathon over Saturday and Sunday at this time so Bernie next slide this time we had two projects the first one we thought that we would try to implement the server model and that is specified in the in the draft that we have as a working group item we made a lot of progress there was some sharp edges we\u0027ll put it a couple issues they are in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:33",
    "text": "the issue tracker so I will be talking about them briefly and when we get to the yak model discussion and but the overall perception is that it was it was reasonably good so we wrote some code it\u0027s not yet functional but well it\u0027s so much functional not usable yet but we managed to extract some of the information and the other project that\u0027s been happening was that there was a first implementation of the three to 15 beasts started from scratch it was for a riot system this is for embedded devices and I was told that the implementation currently the size of the binary is three kilobytes it\u0027s it\u0027s a good result yes so and the code is submitted as pull requests to write to us okay so that\u0027s it please remember to stand in the pin pink box yeah you may have to turn it on okay however and this is for the DHCP for over six so suggest option we have just post the latest version on the dealer tracker so you guys could just find it on the website okay next act please something about the document status it is currently an active working group document and it tends to update the RFC 75 a night if approved and actually about this drafts lifetime the first presentation is maybe four or five years ago whatever we just get the draft back so we have done some major updates since the working group adoption and here are six for Bernie\u0027s reviewing comments okay next slide well I will just give a very quick overview of this document so the motivation is that the current software provisioning model is deterministic for example the ipv6 source address have to use predetermined prefix and the the C\u0027s ipv4 or ipv6 and ipv6 these have to be bound together so the conclusion is that it is very limited so in this document we just use the DHCP four over six transport defined in RFC 734 t1 and the detailed process is a very typical two-way communication the client will just request the server the DHCP for v6 server is ipv4 and ipv6 configuration I includes the ipv4 address the PRS ipv6 address and also the ipv6 spanning "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:34",
    "text": "prefix hint which is optional and then the client we just communicate the ipv6 also just back to the DHCP for v6 server and this mechanism is applied to the post light we four six and maybe so to fulfill the process we have to update and define new options the option that we have to update is the option s for 6pr because in the original RFC it has been defined that it should be used with specific software container options so in this document we just remove this restriction so it could appear directly in the in the process and we also need a new TRC pv6 option to carry the preferred prefix hint for the client to bind this is very useful if there are a lots of multiple prefix for the C\u0027s to Pine and also this is optional and we have n th CPV for option to let the client to inform the server of is ipv6 address option a source address so the server could just add a new entry for this channel well next so here are some major updates the first thing we have done is that we add very detailed text to describe the client server behaviors include the initialization the repine and renew and also the release and we also covered the unexpected scenarios for example when the client just received the DHCP nnk from the server or the server just found a mismatch of the source address and we also discussed the change of the ipv6 or suggests how we do is that the client will send a DHCP request with the new defined option and the server on the server side it will implement a minimal time interval and also we we have made a big change here is that we change the source address option from a GP v6 option to th CPV fortune and this is this has to sense to you to torture comm they have to some implementations and found that if we just use a SCP v-6 option is very complicated so we just changed make this change next slice well here\u0027s a outstanding issues we want a new title here currently we just call the district dscp v4 over TV music source address option this is because it\u0027s a laksa from the initial version we just use this a single source adjust option to carry three different kinds of information but currently we have two new options and one updated option and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:35",
    "text": "draft defines a whole provisioning process not just the options so our course or sink that better teto is required and here is what we propose to as the new title is called a dynamic soft wire provisioning using th CPV for over tcp b6 and so i\u0027m just here to ask the working group are there any comments on this new title so if we are happy with this we could just the change in the next version would be there\u0027s also I guess the static provisioning is that way that means just you know there\u0027s the dynamic mm-hm part and I guess because THC you wanna that that\u0027s where the dynamic part comes from I mean I\u0027m not just wondering why the dynamic word is there rice a little bit confusing yeah right but I mean it means the software provisioning not Jesse itself yeah but what other software I just is there other soft wire provisioning that\u0027s not dynamic I guess is my question yes we have that info so um I think the first couple of paragraphs are something in the introduction make the point about the RC 75 98 sort of pre provisioning options and and how this differentiates a year the differences between this that mechanism and this mechanism so III do take your point about the double die now or three dynamics in there if you count all of them so maybe we could come up with a better word instead of dynamic I guess the wider question is I mean do we agree in principle that the existing title is not really descriptive of what the draft contains now yeah I think you ended up with a lot more in there than just sort of your normal options definition document so there\u0027s a good argument for making this change it\u0027s just you know I think let\u0027s take it to the working group list mailing list to see you know what in that way people have a little bit more time to you know think about it consider it okay so next for the next steps actually we have proof of concept implementations by Deutsche Telekom the client is based on the open to party and there\u0027s always the Kea and even just told me that this will be published as soon as possible and the learnings from those implementations has been incorporated into the latest version so we think is ready for the working group last call so any comments just get that title clarified send that out to the list and we\u0027ll discuss it a little bit then we should be able to do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:36",
    "text": "the working group last call I think on it anybody else have comments all right thank you okay thanks oh actually I wrote some notes down come on up but about the draft and that is that in the 3315 biz we have a new table for and that we\u0027re gonna ask I Anna did to do which just says for example whether an option should be in the Oro and whether it\u0027s a unitary or not option okay so I think one of the things that you should update the draft to say as to update that table based on 3315 biz you know some reference 3315 biz table for and a direct I Anna to change those entrance because you got a change option 92b now be available in the Oro and you should add the definitions for your two new options to tell I Anna what to put in the table for those entries okay so that\u0027s that\u0027s I can send a note out to the mailing list but I think we should you know that should be done just so that it\u0027s ready when 3315 biz goes through hello everyone I\u0027m from Tsinghua University and I recently took over the dhcpv6 llamada work next please and since since last meeting we hadn\u0027t made a lot of progress and the two versions have been published saying and thanks for en and it called Cheers for setting up the report on github and we resolve most issues from Ian Burnie and mossy next place here are the structure changes first we splitted the original big model into five modules server real a client options and types and we separated confliction configuration data and the state data we also rican structure the network range definition any and now it only contains address pause pupils and hostile reservations the previous reserved addresses and there is a prefix emerged into hostel reservations because they same the function of hostel reservations and we remodel the the DUID definition and now it contains four types defined in three three one five days and a divide unknown type next please and here are the detailed detailed changes we address it address than the you tonight utilization issue and the use feature to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:38",
    "text": "indicate a support for each option and as clear as we moved rapid calm to pool level and removed some and necessary paulien nose and and this will be further discussed in later slide and we had some interactions with ITF interfaces also remodeled some remodeled most option definitions x place and now this is what our current model structure is the server relay and client import options and types next place and here thanks for thanks for Tomic who had who discovered the data tracker feature by which we can view the model the tree model interactively next place is kind of nice it\u0027s a good way to explore the model because you can click on these and then you keep going down you can drill and expand the model and it shows you all the relationships and things pretty nicely I think this is a this is tooling that is being done for all yang models it\u0027s really kind of nice and here are some outstanding issues we need to further deal with and the first is the condition of the you RDA issue should we just treat you already asked or pick values or add a new ture unknown to have as way as we currently does and comments ok personally I prefer that we add a new D ID and on type and next in this in this point we don\u0027t we don\u0027t make make consensus I think a PD function and the inherit options that are unnecessary but Ian do you have some ideas in fur so um yeah this is a common originally raised by Marcin in a review from probably 18 months or longer ago about why is does the PD functionality have an enable option in there whereas the address pools for non temporaries don\u0027t I\u0027m slightly torn on this because I am I thinking behind this when I kind of you know um looked at this again was you could have a fully compliant RFC 3315 implementation that doesn\u0027t do PD right but is that a problem I mean the model doesn\u0027t look I don\u0027t think you\u0027re required to have every part of the model implemented well so the concept here would be that if you didn\u0027t implement "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:38",
    "text": "parts of the model that are in the standardized model then you\u0027d need to do forgot the the neck contour the young term is for it but there\u0027s basically a a message you send to say I do not implement this sub-tree you can also build a server that doesn\u0027t do address assignment for example you could do yeah I mean there\u0027s a question do we need some sort of capabilities you know Wade certainly here are my capabilities so young young does this I mean this is part of it you know when the the session is established then there will be this capabilities exchange but the capabilities exchange assumes if you say you support this model you support everything that\u0027s in this model the features function in there is the way that you can get the the variance from that so if you say you know it\u0027s perfectly you know this part is optional you can still be perfectly compliant in your implementation but not to do that then that\u0027s why the features function is in there it\u0027s why we move to doing that with the with the options modeling of saying you know there\u0027s whatever 150 options in there there\u0027s probably only 20 of those that you have to actually do in order to say I\u0027m 3315 compliant or whatever the number is but it\u0027s quite a subset of that so we went down the road of saying well if you don\u0027t implement some of the later ones well you can turn that off with our feature still be a compliant DHCP server still be compliant to the a model and we have to have to worry about any of those things so the thinking extends beyond that to say well if it\u0027s done with prefix delegation again you could be a 3315 server and not do PD so maybe it makes sense to move that to being a feature function maybe we can also make this this argument about address pools if you were doing purely stateless DHCP in that case you know there\u0027s no reason why we can\u0027t do that I think you know looking at it in that through in that way you know maybe more extensive use of features is the way to solve this that\u0027s what I would do I think you you know if you I mean just having PD and not it\u0027s not enough because yeah it\u0027s all watch but it seems to me features is the right way to do this so whatever the right yang modeling for that is what we probably should yes so the only other thing that I thought about around this is whether you would want to have a situation where you\u0027ve had pre config in place I\u0027ve built all of my pools here but I don\u0027t yet want to turn this on for whatever reason but I\u0027m not sure whether in the yang world that\u0027s actually necessary I mean it\u0027s it\u0027s commonly done with Reuters for example pre deployment of configuration so when someone plugs in a new interface for example it pops up and starts working I\u0027m not sure if there\u0027s a DHCP equivalent to that but yeah and I think you know well you have to get sort of the sort of basic model done before we can worry about some of those sure I mean yeah I think we are getting more towards this you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:38",
    "text": "ironing out the the wrinkles in there and the things that you know we actually experience it looks from the testing that\u0027s been done so far at least that the core of the model is it seems to be solid which is you know gotta be the first step okay thanks next sorry sorry and the relocation of Duty UID and a rapid comedy issue currently for server and client the UID is defined in server attributes and the client attributes but actually the UID is exchanged between server and the client in options should we just move that to option live away from the seminary City as for the location of the 2id and becoming I would prefer to put all of them into the options module because you know we just happen split option module why we need to put them under another contender it\u0027s a little bit confusing for me so I personally I would prefer to put all these things in the standard option module you have just defined as another the reason why to treat wrapped option is that it\u0027s not a simple option that is being sent back by the server it effects how the server operates so in my opinion the best place for this would be the network range or subnet so because this is more like a property of the network that is running the server when you use rapid community you say that I am the only server there is no other server you don\u0027t need to wait for them so we can just cut the whole advertisement face and just skip to the to the assignment if we just use this option in the network ranges if we just want to because we have a we have a hierarchy level we just put in different level to indicate it if it\u0027s globally it\u0027s just what you don\u0027t hear as a server attributes it\u0027s kind of like you know I kind of word we use is sort of policy right this is whether you will support rapid commit or not or whether you want to send a set of options it\u0027s kind of a policy type of thing and so we in our server we kind of a policy container that has all of the stuff about you know how we should behave for this set of clients pools server wide right we have policies that contain options that contain rapid commit yes/no you know even things about whether you need you need the client to somewhat reconfigure or is it optional or don\u0027t you want to support reconfigure lifetimes all that kind of stuff is in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:39",
    "text": "sort of a policy container for us and you can put these policy containers everywhere and that\u0027s what I kind of view you know the option holders here are kind of like those policy containers and so I think you should think about that model of sort of having these containers where you know maybe I don\u0027t know why they should be called policies or not but that that hold this kind of stuff the server line the DUID for the server I think should be a server attribute because that I don\u0027t think there\u0027s an immodest as I mean there\u0027s nothing that prohibits saying use this server UID on this network segment this other one there but I don\u0027t know what benefit that would ever have and so I think that should be a you know that that should be a property of the server as it is a property of the client right and the further question whether it will be any other options that should be useless or abuse I have to go back and look at the model to see what where you do certain things and how they\u0027re they\u0027re done I mean I think again that they should be sort of in this option bucket because you should be able to say you know for this client I want you to use this option bucket for this class of clients however you want to define that class I want you to use a set of options for this pool that set or as a default for the server wide here\u0027s the option you know here\u0027s the options that I want you to say right thank you okay so what about a ready to commit the is this that should this be contained in option oh oh in my mind it should be contained in and things whatever container we hold we use to hold you know whether the options is the right word or not I can\u0027t say right off I don\u0027t remember the model that into intimately but it should be at the same sort of level where you can define the set of options that are supposed to be different okay okay thanks next place that\u0027s Duchess at my my position okay and this is the most confusing issue to me and how to define the logic to for the server to serve clients requests from correct address or traffic prefix for I I don\u0027t I\u0027m not sure why the way I should do this because it seems that different implementations it varies greatly with implementations and currently we add a client class and their address and period pool but maybe the client classification mechanism is too complicated and comments so it\u0027s not really that complicated is just different in every implementation because it\u0027s not part of the specification so you can consider just removing it completely from the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:40",
    "text": "standards model and then each implementation could provide extension that matches that specific set of features that the implementation has we haven\u0027t tried yet I think it would be fair to say I agree that it\u0027s going to be a complicated thing from a modeling perspective and there\u0027s nothing really that the springing to mind as to you know this is a potential solution that we can try I can\u0027t believe that there is that much variance in \u0027bitter in what are the things that we\u0027re making selections from you know it\u0027s a sore subject it\u0027s an interface that the relay originates from it\u0027s relay identifier it\u0027s a kind of client identifier you know there is a limited number of things that can be done here no because like you know this is burning goals for our server you can actually you know you can you can actually write an expression you know bug there\u0027s a whole bunch of data together to produce something and it can use conditional logic that says you know if the relay is this and this option is that so it\u0027s very complicated and also for the client class in this pool is kind of too simplified because we use a level of indirection you know you we do have the concept of a client class but for pool selection it\u0027s not what client class you have it\u0027s actually what selection tag you had so a client class can have selection tags and a pool has selection tags and those things if you know a client can only use a pool if it has the same set of selection tags as the pool does but I still think you know that there\u0027s a lot of commonality here that I\u0027m sure your implementation could do many more things and there\u0027s no reason why you couldn\u0027t create models that will augment with specific functionality that doesn\u0027t exist elsewhere but if we can get you know the things that will work for 90% of people then it\u0027s it\u0027s worth the effort and and I don\u0027t think you know I don\u0027t know how to do it at the moment but I\u0027m sure it is possible and so I you know if we look at it from that perspective I think I can do something worthwhile yeah so I suppose if you keep the description generic enough you could do it probably every implementation that does this has a concept of class name and some sort of class quantifier or expression but there might be a lot of additional features that are very specific to the server but still if you provide this in the model as put any kind of string here it it\u0027s gonna work maybe there\u0027s there\u0027s more like you can have some sort of you know pool selector or something like that right and I don\u0027t know whether then then you could have in the client classes you could have what pool selector to use right now if you use the same name then it should work right whether you yep so there might be some level of indirection or the possibility to do indirection that might be useful I don\u0027t know why "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:40",
    "text": "that\u0027s just thinking off the top nice so I think it\u0027s still an open thing that we have to debate a little bit about how to do those things yeah yeah I think so next place and next will first we will continue to work on issues and github and and notice that atomic has just post some issues from the from the Hexen thank you and we will further check the correctness and the completeness of the option definitions this this is easy but it it it consumes a lot of time and we also need some input from the vendors okay any other comments or suggestions one very well I found a very useful exercise was taking some real config that we have and know that we\u0027re using at the moment and trying to push that into an XML rendering of of the model as it stands at the moment so I generated a skeleton using one of the beiong tools and basically did a mapping into there and it very very quickly showed out there\u0027s some glaring holes in there of things that are missing at the moment so I think it\u0027s a worthwhile exercise there to look at config examples from you know as many implementations as we possibly can do do a similar kind of exercise there and I think the inner front from that there\u0027s a lot that can be learned about you know how well it works what is possible what what\u0027s missing so yeah there\u0027s also a next step I happen to get the XML file which the configuration and then try to actually load it into the configuration there was a bunch of other issues so yeah so I reported a couple of them in the issue tracker I just want to briefly mention two of them so the first one is that by default the server didn\u0027t support any options so if I wanted to specify those options they were rejected by the model because the features were not enabled this is not how DHCP service operates so by default the server can sell any option that is configured there is no extra switch that you need to turn to to define those options so if this is a requirement from the yank perspective maybe it could be but it was just very annoying that even the basic things like specifying DNS server I needed to turn the functionality on first and then enable the the option itself I mean I followed there is the PM tool has a one of the output formats is an XML skeleton which it will just go through or you know pull in the model and it will generally generate an xml-based template that you can potentially go and fill in in the current version of p.m. that is just completely broken so I had to drop back to an earlier version in order so you can get that thing to work "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:40",
    "text": "what it seems in there is it doesn\u0027t come out with any of the that it doesn\u0027t build a skeleton that has everything that\u0027s in there and if certain features that are mandatory to true in the model didn\u0027t make it over into there and you know so there was a lot of hand cranking that needed to be done to get that thing to there the other thing I was unable to do is find any way of validating the XML I had created has been against the yang model to say you know is this actually and so yeah I mean any bugs that are in there were probably as a result of you know problems in the tooling and problems and the fact I had to hand crank it I need to speak to the PIO authors I think around this week so and kind of make sure you know ask them about it okay cool so and my second comment is that the feature that is in my opinion missing in the model is the ability to configure the storage for the server so every server has to store the information like leases reservations and other things so the implementation I am involved in Kea it\u0027s pretty flexible in this regard so you can point whether you want to store them in local file in a database or similar places which you know the credentials for the database and so on I presume every implementation has something similar so it would be useful to have a generic method for this just tackle using a URI type field would that be flexible enough for what you it\u0027s possible fugitive yeah possibly so on the most complicated scenario is that you have a database so you need to specify the type username password a hostname port and database name so you could you could probably abstract this URL so yeah okay that\u0027s all thank you I\u0027m asking I\u0027d like to introduce a new draft that\u0027s been published recently like two weeks ago so on so first some background so the idea behind this draft is to be able to configure MAC address over the HCP v6 so first impression that people get is what what so bear with me and it will make sense in a minute so a couple of background informations there\u0027s FC 17 to 41 it defines "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:40",
    "text": "cooperation between I Triple E 802 and ITF there\u0027s there recurring meetings and there is some cooperation between those two entities so the norm I Triple E 802 dot C splits the local MAC addresses into four quadrants and one of those quadrants is dedicated to local marketers assignment there\u0027s a working group 802 CQ that is working on different allocation mechanisms so couple people that are very respected and experienced they thought about this and they came to a conclusion that dhcpv6 might actually be a useful mechanism used as a delivery for this so this cow which to Bernie Bernie talked with me and we scratch our head a little bit and said okay yeah this could be done so if there\u0027s a very useful presentation don\u0027t part by part Taylor and it explains a lot of the reasons come on so but I still wasn\u0027t convinced so I tried to convince myself so what\u0027s the problem basically this is about it means the paradox so if you are not familiar and with the problems that right now in this room there\u0027s two to one people so there is more than 55% chance that two people have this day I on the on the same day so but it\u0027s it\u0027s all nice but if we\u0027re talking about things like virtual machines and you want to create lots of them there\u0027s the problem that if you randomly assign mark addresses there could be conflicts not very frequently but sometimes and so if you if you have a large scale it will affect you but the scale is not that big to be affected by this so for example if you use a classic approach for example in VirtualBox when you create a new machine only the last 24 bits are randomized so if you have thousand VMs the probability of a collision is 3% so this is no trigger and this is starting to go up so to reach 50% you only need for less than 5003 abs so and this is this is significant so you could try to go further so use almost the whole market less space there are two bits that are reserved the the first one determines whether this is unicast or multicast others so it has to be unicast whether this is global or local so this is also determined and if you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:41",
    "text": "obey the the quadrants that are defined by I typically you get with you get 45 or 44 beats so that with large deployment it gives you probability of 1.41 of collision so but this is a problem because this is a probability for every additional the end that you spin up so you will get a lot of collisions so that\u0027s why there is the need for for a central repository that will assign the addresses okay so what are the use cases so the the fields the fields the most most common in my opinion use case will be a hypervisor that is allocating a MAC addresses for virtual machine they might have depending on day on the use cases and the business models they might be a very long lift or very short lift and it be recycled frequently so the other use case in IOT devices there\u0027s a lot of new type of devices like sensors so some of them are disposable that are very short-lived and they are consuming the market res space very quickly so I can go on so the other question is why this should be the HP v6 based so the quick answer is that there\u0027s existing infrastructure we have the protocol that is extensible we have the support in networks we have realize deployed that could already deliver the traffic and do some things there are tools that are built around the HP and administrators are familiar with this so it should be easier to deploy than complete new protocol and finally we are the DHCP guys so when the when you ask us the answer is always d2p so okay anyway so this is what we came up with so we try to make it as similar to other mechanisms that you have so there\u0027s there\u0027s the containing option it looks exactly the same as containers for addresses and prefixes so there\u0027s nothing new in this except the option name okay this is slightly different the option is others option so it is used to convey what we call a block of addresses so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:41",
    "text": "it\u0027s flexible enough that you can request and get a single address but if you want to you can get more of them in a single option so the link like address type is just the type who was induced this is Ethernet or something else link layer LAN this is almost always six bytes but there are some exotic architectures like infinite InfiniBand they are using 20 bytes and I think WiMAX is in some cases are using 8 bytes long but anyway there\u0027s an address that you can specify and then the number of additional addresses that are objecting to it so if you want to just get single address extra distance is 0 that\u0027s it there is no preferred lifetime just about lifetime ok so the operation is basically the same as you would expect from normal or DHCP operation just options are slightly different so it\u0027s it\u0027s simpler than the normal address assignment because there is no confirm there is no decline we think that we don\u0027t need reckon figure and information request is not used so come on so just to explain briefly how it works in the use cases that I mentioned so for the hypervisor there is a hypervisor that is managing the VMs so it asks the server or two to get an address or model actually a block of addresses and on behalf of the VMS so and of course the hypervisor doesn\u0027t use them on its own just creates the VM suite with those addresses and for the actual clients like IOT devices there\u0027s the booster problem to send the HTTP packets you need to have Marc address so you could start with randomize address and either ask the server to assign address or ask the server whether this MAC address is okay or not and then you sort this this would be sort of like a registration mechanism so and that\u0027s pretty much it there is one more slide so we have some questions whether we should use rapid commit or not couple approaches are possible that it\u0027s forbidden it can be allowed or if you want to speed up the process we can even make it mandatory we are not sure whether to use reconfigure or not and what do what the hip advisor is supposed to do it server becomes unavailable it tries to renew and finally the addresses expire so just to wrap it up we have repository on github "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:46",
    "text": "with issues so there\u0027s a bunch of them but before we go into discussions about them Bernie next slide please so I have a question to the working group is this something that you\u0027re interested in are you willing to participate in this work so any comments tomatoes suresh krisshnan a li had off like I\u0027m personally interested in this book progressing like I kind of told you this before and I think it\u0027s worthwhile doing this book and ad head on you would support our taking the work on if the working group agreed to adopted yeah sure like it\u0027s it\u0027s something that\u0027s kind of in the Charter the Charter is like a bit wide like we didn\u0027t have that many milestones and so if you want to take it on like it\u0027s just like you know put in a milestone and I\u0027ll approve it so I don\u0027t think we need to reach out for that okay any any other comments from anybody as to you know is this something you think the working group should consider doing as do you think it\u0027s a bad idea no okay Tim winners UNH hi well I think this is an interesting idea I think we can I think this is something working group should take on thank you thanks okay Jesse thanks all right so I think that is it for us today six minutes early thank you and I think we\u0027ll take the you know we\u0027ll take the question to the working group as to whether there\u0027s you know we may not do enough adoption call right away but we probably will do one sometime maybe once we you know there\u0027s a few cleanups we have to do and and questions to answer and we\u0027ll probably send out a few queries to the mailing list as well to get some feedback you know if anybody else is interested in being co-author or whatever let us know - yeah all right thank you and where\u0027s the blue sheets if you didn\u0027t sign please do so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:11",
    "text": "you "
  }
]