[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:08",
    "text": "there is no say okay we actually start now this is the rod meeting but uh yeah we are going to wait like five minutes until people arrive a bit there our presenters that are missing okay thank you please sign there blue shapes hi Michael no thank you very much - Dominic for being the immunity Kerr and Michael for being the JavaScript thank you guys [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:11",
    "text": "[Laughter] I know [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:22",
    "text": "okay mr. okay good morning everyone this is for meeting thank you for being here we want to start our meeting so please a word that the meeting is called under not well read it carefully we don\u0027t want to read it here okay this is the MIDI material thank you again to Dominique and Michael for healthy nuts please sign the blue sheets okay this is our agenda do we have comments we are going to have Rao remotely but he is not going to be able to use video so we are going to have it only in audio mode but he is going to be online okay okay great thank you okay this is all my mind stunts do we have crane all the columns here we have some delays but they want to work on that hopefully some aah miss the use of our PL info actually being in the last stage you just have to put the points and the commas in and all that so very good congratulations but we were really applauded when the numbers are distributed okay [Laughter] [Music] they have commented milestones so we have several documents that are from balloons the working group but they are expired so it would be nice they can rest I mean put alive again some way like yeah yes especially for the young "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:29",
    "text": "model I\u0027m still looking forward to some people who may comment on that and once that is done we can put it forward because not really uncompressed document and reading it is not too complex to take you in quarter of an hour you point out to most mistakes and that will be it the young model of nipple MPL [Music] the question was how we have some drafts which expired and are not coming forward and what is going to happen and I picked out one draft of which I happened to be an author and I told them that if there are any reaction on them and that can be very difficult I think then this one they may go forward as well okay this is the status of our active internet draft we are going to have some and discuss discussing today other ones are on hold there are some that I want to be continued like it is modification hopefully oh that\u0027s great thank you thank you thank you and yeah good then we have related internet draft that too often they\u0027re going to be discussed today that we need as well reviews for rural traffic a word if some volunteer for review pleased to it okay this is our open tickets there are one couple really with the doubt projection so I think if during the presentation of the projection if we after the presentation if we arise those documents those tickets I think is ready for the last fall and Pascal thank you so the del projection is actually still alive and kicking and progressing and I hope that we\u0027re close to last call but but now might be things that we want to add to the document before we actually close it so the the recent changes are related to our the encoding the RFC eight ones create encoding and things like that to to elf implementation so we give examples and there was discovered that we got that when we want to ever to tell the route that there is an error on projected route then instead of use from the packet as it stood to differentiate a source route packet which no more resources run packet from a project it\u0027s or a packet so because there is no state "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:29",
    "text": "from the projected route in the intermediate note in the source route model remember we started with norms with storing mode and we added non story mode projected routes in a non storing mode projected route you have a source routing it now you follow it but you have no state in ultimate not note so when you see the packet Oh should I report to the soul should I report to the route or is there any other case right now it would be the route the route anyway I can ask that in the future support of so swatting it could be anything so we decided about the mailing list that having a flag to say a it\u0027s this type of route so the euro message should be this was was interesting and so what we did with the last version is add a flag in the API the hop-by-hop option and what that was fine but that means changing dating RFC eight one three eight to indicate this flag right and actually as we went through that we realized that most of what you find today in the API is not useful in a projected rod because for instance the flags that are used for loop avoidance go away because there\u0027s no concept of up and down so we went through the exercise of actually defining a new format for our state one three eight for compressing the API when it\u0027s being used in the context of projected route so it\u0027s actually smaller right and it can contain this flag that that we\u0027re about so that\u0027s the the the biggest change we made so here is the flag in the non compressed format basically extending our see six five five three they see my call to my question right now my college just my good um so that\u0027s really interesting that what you just said that so you extended it we have the uncompressed format but then in the process of trying to compress it you discovered additional efficiencies is what I understood using the compression format yes again and does that apply to just projected roots yes or all uses just project you just projected so basically you have a different compression format for the projected route or this thing that sounds cool okay and actually if you look deeper this K in this case the API is actually elective because if you ignore it that doesn\u0027t change the way you route the packet it\u0027s just just if you if you you\u0027re interested in it if you throw an error basically so it the forwarding would work without understanding that that field meaning that normal API is not elect if you have to understand it but this one is elective and that\u0027s a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:30",
    "text": "cool thing because if you have an old implementation which can forward the longer sauce right path right and does everything as it did before when the error will still go to the root it\u0027s good it\u0027s it\u0027s going to be the wrong gear of code but you still will go to the root and you see will get an error meaning that it\u0027s okay if it ignores and the way we built the elective and and monetary compression formats makes it so that an old implementation will actually let any API through which will just ignore it so we are backward compatible that\u0027s kind of cool if we had to change a mandatory format then we would have a flag day prom again but so we basically introduced a new idolatry for an elective API this time that\u0027s why we call it the API then we provide a well first the format is like this we pick the same type if you looked at the way we did at one three eight we actually avoided overlapping the types in elective and mandatory meaning that the number five which is the RPI in modern critical can be used also in elective or also a RPI right so not type five in elective and critical will we\u0027ll both be RPI which is kind of cool so it\u0027s pretty much why we did not match at the time because we thought that maybe this would happen it actually does now the formats of doing of the packets being sauce rot from a source which is not the route to a destination which is not the route either was never used before because for now till now the source routing was always coming from the route so there is an optimization in the IP to IP when the route is the source of the destination in this case it\u0027s neither but eight one three eight was sought for it even if we never used it before so I give an example of that format and actually we also reach for fit in an example similar to that in use of ripple info a key question question question hello can you hear me yep right so the particle you just mentioned couple of slides before that the packet won\u0027t go up and down but that is true only for the source routed the projected down or outside I mean it\u0027s not true for storing mode projected down well are you saying that the compression just is it is because you the path that the storing mode injects doesn\u0027t have to be a longer tier that it can be any path right I mean usually we give example where the storing path is a compression of a non storing path just to reduce the number of countries in the rotting either doesn\u0027t have to be so if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:30",
    "text": "the route is capable of injecting a non storing path in the network it\u0027s also capable of injecting a story path in the network it doesn\u0027t have to be a longer tier bag and anything so once you\u0027re in a project garage you can never go out of it because you may create a loop so the bottom line is that there is no up and down there is just this path you follow it or you die but you just mentioned that there is a possibility of creating a loop with storing mode of operation for well even though there is there is a possibility we have text on that and maybe it can be improved but the bits as existed don\u0027t help okay right so we have ample text but but the bits rely on the fact that you understand the geotag and you understand that the packet that went down can never go up again but here you don\u0027t have that concept because the rods can be in any direction there is no concept of up and down you\u0027re swimming in the sea don\u0027t know where the bottom and the top are so you can\u0027t use the bits down we are trying to avoid loops with all sorts of things but basically the flags don\u0027t help so here is the format actually that we end up with if you have a 23-8 in place between a source and destination so what\u0027s interesting you know 8 1 3/8 is supposed to be equivalent to ipv6 it\u0027s just another encoding of the same thing now the weights encoded is usually that you place all the destination information in the front so if you have one destination is the first thing that you have if you are watching a Dominic that you have a series of destinations their whole place in the front one after the other which is very different from normal way of ipv6 where you have the first destination in the IP header and then the saucer out there somewhere else and you have to do swapping games etc all this is gone when you use the eight one three eight format so you start with the routing at the destinations usually you have either the destinations which means you come from the route and you go down or or you have the junk apps alator which then you go up and the encapsulation is not the route but if junk of territory is a route it\u0027s elided when these guys you have both the destination of the IP and IP and the source because neither neither is delighted right so it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s completely compatible with a 23-8 issues that maybe people never coded for that because if you did the minimum code for exactly what you need it for classical repo where the sauce rotator is always coming from the root then you never had an encapsulated or that they have in blue here in your packets now you do because the source is not the root so we still have a number of discussions that\u0027s where I\u0027m I\u0027m wondering what\u0027s the well now is the time for Walker plastic or not I really want to close this document that we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:30",
    "text": "wanted to finish it we want to implement it but but there\u0027s one big question is we never really soft is how does the root know about the topology what do we do we said oh it\u0027s not this back right but we don\u0027t have nobody started the other spec which says how that happens so right now we know how to project a lot we don\u0027t know how to compute it and I I mean either we start a draft and then we\u0027re in for two three years or we just add an option in that one so that the root knows so maybe this one could be the vessel for if we can find a minimal way to provide topology information to the root maybe we could package that option into this document that\u0027s the question I\u0027m asking to the group here agree with that you\u0027re greedy it was basically what we have today right in we have story mode sorry non storing mode a non storing mode the root has most of the information already it has all the do that right but if you want to do a route east-west well maybe it\u0027s gonna be not to optimize because you only see the do dark so we only see links in the do dark the parent to child what you would like to see is a bit more sibling rot sibling so so what you really need is something like the target option well you have the target option that\u0027s me and then you have the transit option which is my parents and I have a list of transit option so so I tell the routes here is here are my parents but I would like to tell the route is here are my siblings right so we could define a sibling option in like 30 lines of text in this pack or we try all new RC which will take two years if you\u0027re inclined of doing that if the group says I do it let\u0027s just propose an option put it in that stack proposed the option yes good good I\u0027m paying that confirm their comments about that and you show you this okay so soon we can just put the option and go to the working group that\u0027s a way right I will propose a format on the mailing list they will ask feedback for what goes in it what doesn\u0027t go in it blah blah blah and then who you are as well they pair up with the other options like like I do it like I separate like I note this could be as well done in another RFC or well in the mail limit or in the spike in to spy kids you you okay I first confirm with the mail I propose the option in the mail and then if I don\u0027t if I get positive feedback and negative feedback blah blah blah publish anyway second thing is we still need more capabilities so the node can express that you can do either of those things so the for instance how much memory do I have how many storing not storing rods can I store in my node right so the root "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:32",
    "text": "does not overload I note with too many routes we don\u0027t have right now any way of doing it the logical way is to provide a map using Howells draft the only problem with that is that round draft is not yet an RFC and so we will have a dependency on it so what I want to do is use Ronald\u0027s raft refer to it and so I will ask you to progress files draft as soon as you can right that\u0027s pretty much what goes with that because we wit will have to hold this one this one or if you have a better way you can also put some options in there which would be very specific to this and not choose Ross draft that\u0027s y\u0027all tonight I think if they mobile x-ray mobile draft define the capabilities we should all use right so right I mean the demamp extension is not a big draft it\u0027s just a format that can be extensible I mean why don\u0027t we progress it yes I want to talk about that today so yeah so I hope all that you tell us that you\u0027re ready to publish yes then the draft goes through something very complex which is what happens if you want to suppose to have a full path that is completely established in one shot how do you stitch path well that\u0027s still okay but how do you find sense of a loose or out with storing in between right because tall told you if you start using projected rod you cannot go away and use the normal dag because it could take you back earlier in the projected rod you may you may create clips right that\u0027s where our loops come from so if you start entering this topology this virtual topology that is the projected rod you must follow it to the end that\u0027s how you avoid loops now the route can say hey I can do an on storing path from A to B and then down from B to C or B to D I can have two other projected rods and you concatenate them as long as you\u0027re doing that you probably look lies but if you start doing things like oh I\u0027m stitching storing and non storing rot etc then if some nodes in the middle lose some state you know that so how how far do we want to go with us do we want to say I place some rules already to limit the way you could play with those stacks I would like people to review that I mean I think that\u0027s the most critical piece in this draft is loop avoidance all right with which protection which limitation how do we make things simple that we know that won\u0027t the raw loops but then same time will limit the capabilities of the protocol right so that needs to be well thought people need to look at that if there is only one thing you need to look at is this right okay we are going to create a ticket for that so he\u0027s well documented as well and then there is all the compression games do we want to do the compression "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:33",
    "text": "in that it\u0027s true for for the VA option it\u0027s true for anything in ripple right now we have compressed the data plane we have not compressed the the control plane and George\u0027s wants to speak about that about the last point are actually urges at George fermium to Atlantic about the ripple control plane impression we\u0027re meeting our draft as well we need we need anyway a draft and rip okuu pressure I don\u0027t understand that we don\u0027t have it I thought that we would do it in the coming years right after repo in Tim okay now now we have eight one three eight so we\u0027re in a very different situation than we were in 2007 2010 we have eight one three eight so we already have the format for the compressing the the rods so why don\u0027t we just Express the via option already in the eight one three eight format meaning that when you build a package natively in eight one three eight you just have to take this and put it in your packet so it would make the implementation much easier if the format that we have here is the native formatting format in which they will actually write the packet makes our control smaller and makes the implementation easier so I mean right now I just wanted to say here is what\u0027s in there it\u0027s a more logical representation but I think when we go to bits and bytes I mean it\u0027s very easy for me to express this same spec with a much smaller every option just because it\u0027s an already compressing that one\u0027s rate opinions but that means people use that one three eight most it would be stupid not to this is Peter fantastic I really want to draft I mean you have been talking about this you have changed it we changed it I mean and now we seem to converge which is very nice but I really want to get it fixed so if you\u0027re if there are additions which can be actually exported to other documents and if it can be simplified and such such that additions can be done in other documents I would certainly prefer so that this document is the standard way where you could this is the base document in which you can show that we have these alternative routes and if there any additions or optimizations then this document is the reference and you can go forward so them you can write up with this document without - because if you look at this list we are not going to have very group last call before before November noise we will make a pause oh I can disagree done okay I think there is a minimum said that we need to ship otherwise it makes no sense we needed RS anyway and then we delayed the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:34",
    "text": "implementation a lot more than we would right so there is a balance here it\u0027s there\u0027s nothing obvious I\u0027m saying but what I understood is that that Michael Richardson here that that the wrote the Dow protection mechanism is probably not functional without some of these additions is that what I really yes exactly is that we really can\u0027t have you can\u0027t have an implementation without these other bits all right and so I I\u0027m sympathetic to to what Peter suggested in general but I think that it needs to be in one place for an implementer to say do all of this but there\u0027s not so much Peter it\u0027s not like it\u0027s open book right I try to really list what\u0027s important IIIi actually don\u0027t think it matters whether you have have one document or four and it\u0027s the complex in fact it\u0027s probably worth it for the ESG review if you have four because the hot reviewed as a group anyway to understand it and and they don\u0027t unless they all just pass and they don\u0027t want too many RFC\u0027s coming out of the group right they\u0027re saying a what load are you pushing on us yeah so so that yeah we\u0027re not pushing a lot oh we are actually actually I do think that you know we do have quite an interesting number of specs out of this group actually it\u0027s a predictive what the problem we have with our documents is they\u0027re interesting and the iesg is attracted to interesting shiny objects good so he make our documents more boring then they will just go Chuck okay so guess what Peter I\u0027ll try to put some more energy on this one to get those things soft on this one I did not mention I mentioned stitching right but think about it for just a second we are not if we just push okay if we just push Cyril path ABCD in the network and that\u0027s it it will never work because it\u0027s very the route can be very far away from the route and the route cannot react instantly to any problem along that path so when will be effectively using this bag to layout routes it\u0027s going to be do Dax it won\u0027t be ABCD it\u0027s going to be a B or C then maybe B to C then C to D EC to whatever it\u0027s going to be idea that it\u0027s going to be a complex thing that\u0027s why we need to stitch stuff right I\u0027m I have two very validate that the way we express things today allows us to stitch things in the right fashion because it\u0027s not variable otherwise linear of path is okay in the TV world where you have wires and very reliable links but it\u0027s not viable in a wireless mesh which is quite large we build "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:36",
    "text": "meshes of two thousand three thousand nodes and sometimes 10 to 20 hops and we deploy them and they work but if you have to push a storing mode or non storing mode project Arad then 20 hops away and then there is a glitch on one of those links you can\u0027t go to other route please solve this problem for me you have to separate the forwarding from the rotting what belongs to the routing is those gray lines that it monitors statistically now to understand this gray line is a bit more great and this one\u0027s with more blacks ones will go white let me be able to use some redundancy so you have enough we doesn\u0027t see at all times to get packet from A to B and the rest is not my problem that\u0027s what the writing will do that\u0027s what the Dow projection will do what the forwarding will do is use the lip of things like that to understand what the actual state are of those links is to use this neo dag between a and B it\u0027s usually two three halves right it\u0027s not four but but it\u0027s multiple possibilities and in run time I have to look at my packet and say hey what kind of redundancy do I want to use in this packet and to do that I need to very well understand the state of all those hops which means they have something in the following plane which is just happening in that little deal dag that the rot projection was built for me and that lets me use it optimally so I get my packets wrong if I flood the Geo tag I\u0027m wasting energy so I need to use it wisely and that\u0027s when all the information I can get actually is good that you\u0027re in the runs that but it\u0027s actually this kind of information package know am feedback to source to source routing about the Geo tag that\u0027s what worth will save the day right so so we basically need the source in storing in on storing we need to source to be able to know exactly what are the possibilities in this do that so it\u0027s it\u0027s about getting through information and stitching it so so you need to be able to correlate multiple segments and make that a Geo tag right now the draft just gives you segments not the full deck so we need to make sure that we can express that I hope I was clear maybe not okay and that\u0027s that\u0027s it for me so yes we have suggestions here so roll roll is the place to do the slow piece right how do you do this great do tag and I\u0027m trying to create a new working group called row for reliable viable Wireless which is the other piece of that story I have this local to your deck how do I use it it\u0027s not a writing prime anymore it\u0027s a falling prom it\u0027s about OAM it\u0027s about link information instant reaction to two events so that\u0027s what Roe is about ranch was in Roe then we have a meeting on Thursday morning what\u0027s gone that\u0027s pretty much it I\u0027m sorry that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s a side meaning that\u0027s a sign meeting raw well "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:38",
    "text": "reliable and available wireless it\u0027s how you all okay it used to be power yes but the HD told us that power looks like powers which was white space yes and so this is white but not space so that that\u0027s it for this one do any question slid out from Cisco and we know that a projector dogs very useful for the p2p case but we have a case that is not too far from the mic okay Lita from Cisco my question is can we define a kind of query p-taff row route the means if the node need to search P Dow P Dow Road from Road we need to provide a mechanism okay so if I can reformulate white understand my my understanding of the question is basically who gets to tell the route that there is a need to establish a path between a and B and what are the properties of that path the amount of redundancy the kind of reliability want to obtain basically what we call the traffic specifications in did not and in the one hand it could be some application somewhere in the cloud but on the other hand it could be a node in the network which decides it wants to talk to another node in which case we need signaling from that node to tell the route please I\u0027m a and I want a projected route to be yes right and and so we don\u0027t have signaling for that it would be it would be like a multi hub this or something well well you know the node could tell a mister route I want to project it down to to be is it something want to include in this document so it was not in malleus that\u0027s just lease proposal this question so I guess it comes from operational requirements right yes something we want in the field so it seems there is a need for support for the host there\u0027s a route I want to talk to mr. B so I\u0027m sorry but no can we are pushing some new staffing which is Thank You Pascal please check the open tickets here with these out prediction trap and you let us know if it\u0027s a dress or we should let more information you think it\u0027s not fully addressed well yeah small question how do you see the progress now will you first do the modifications which have been proposed here and people think and then you make the publish it and then we start asking for more more refuse study yes yes I just want to know maybe Li you can post to the mailing list a proposal like to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:41",
    "text": "use a disk or something like that you know it\u0027s probably something like it\u0027s a message has to go all the way to the root and and ask for a path with certain characteristics and you need to be able to express those characteristics what I call T spec is three what in that net we so we say we want this reliability so the route has to translate that oh do I can be able to dag which is all those shades of gray if I want to reliability of five nines that mean I need five paths or something like that I don\u0027t know with so much prae so packet ribbons really be replication elimination type of games you know or cross three depends on the quality that you want to obtain and the route cannot complete the route if it doesn\u0027t know the result that you want like latency reliability you need some some specifications like that rotting to the leaf so this one is easier because I mean you need to understand the PIO is a big thing right it\u0027s okay it\u0027s a lot of rockets taken time it\u0027s a big thing it\u0027s just it\u0027s like a ogv right it\u0027s it\u0027s a new new way in repo we are using Sdn so that\u0027s well it\u0027s no more that it takes time and we have to think it through because it\u0027s a big thing now the the leaves the unaware leaf is a small thing we we have created at five or five no no that\u0027s the the one that you have at the end of the agenda that\u0027s the turn on a 23 yes leaves at the end so six will be up this whole series of draft and what we\u0027re in stressed transient right now is for now is eight five four five eight five four five is a host or router interface while by a host registers to a router and asked for some services and the service can be rotting and BND proxy could be anything else because it\u0027s extensible so right now it was explicitly designed for use case like cripple so when we rotate five four five we made sure that what ripple needs can be actually expressed with our five five right but so now I\u0027d five four five gives let\u0027s the host tell the Reaper router is what I want in a way that the river Rother can turn it into ripple the cool thing with that is if you\u0027re low power device you don\u0027t have to do six low pile and D which goes all the way to the 6l BR and then Dow which goes all the way to the root it\u0027s just one of those two flow that happens so you divide the amount of traffic between the low power node and the router you divide it by two and you also / to the traffic along the mesh because you don\u0027t have the diode ack on the one hand and the dow in the other actually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:42",
    "text": "the draft allows to to make it so that just sending the devil regenerates the DAC at the root dividing the traffic by two so good for low power good for for the master okay so that that\u0027s pretty much what this graph does in the future as you can see we also have the address protection and D which allows us to prove the ownership of a Russ writes now right now it\u0027s done on the nd side it\u0027s not done on the repo side meaning that if you have access to the repo network you don\u0027t have zero touch properties well by you could not inject an address if you\u0027re on it right now as soon as you get access to the ripple Network you can send it out you can send any Dao meaning that you can claim your anyone right it\u0027s the old wait before zero trust but now we\u0027re in the zero trust world a PNG gives you a trust on the nd level and in the future I hope we extend it to the repo level that we cannot inject an address that is not owned basically so let\u0027s follow future form now anywhere leaf is very simple just covers eight five four five translate that into repos saves off over the traffic and all those leaves that don\u0027t support ripple at all they\u0027d have no knowledge of repo that\u0027s what it is for so that\u0027s pretty much the expectation that we are working at so like I said the the EDA exchange their deck is now originated at the root so we don\u0027t have to have both flows across network thou is used as keep alive and the draft enables to separate the Ripper root and the 6lv are most of the case they will be the same but we actually I thought at first I thought I would remove the section which allows it and then I got use cases right actually happens so so I finally let it the way it is there is a limitation to it and the limitation is that in the Dow that is used to regenerate the dyrdek there is no concept of the the token that what week another Rover in at 5:05 which used to be the MAC address so normally when you build a doubt that you need to place all the fields which were in the ear option including this unique ID that is the Rover but since we don\u0027t have it in repo we cannot actually originate it at the root so so right now we say something we aren\u0027t like it you just feel it to zero and it can only only be a refresher you know but an improvement we could do is to to have something to place it in the Dow so it\u0027s just change that we could be making there was another nothing to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:45",
    "text": "affecting day they discussion about to merge like this and Pierre would merge we said it would but then since then there were use cases that I was told about use cases and just found some where we we don\u0027t want to merge it\u0027s actually separate an example of that is if you have a backbone and the 6lv is common to all all the mesh so the 6lv are now is a central guy covering the whole backbone and the root is still the root of one t oday now separate so so so for cases like that and then then there is also another case where you actually translate the data into DHCP so if you actually have a DHCP server you could you could use that to to at least refresh the DHCP so what you do is you get your address from DHCP first but all the renew is actually done this way so instead of doing it I could do a DHCP renew and actually there are still deployments which use DHCP like ours to be honest so it\u0027s no it\u0027s it\u0027s out of scope of this back but you can actually do a DHCP renew as opposed to a data so these are two use cases where I used to me to split so so kept it you know it did not it did not remove it but for the straight operation of that if we really want to do it well it would be better to place the rather field in repo and that will be useful I just told you a soon we will want to do zero touch we would want to be able to authenticate that the address is owned as we inject it in ripple to do that you will need the rover field anyway right so I\u0027m tempted to ask a why don\u0027t we already put the rover field in the dowel right now so next we\u0027ll be able to secure the injection of it out because that\u0027s the tool to secure it I\u0027m open to it away today the refresher of the dalbergia has the field set to zero I\u0027m let\u0027s sing in your opinion I don\u0027t think people have time to think about that so but that\u0027s pretty much the only improvement they can think of in this the in this draft changing the dowel to place the rubber from 6lowpan into ripple so that we can do this refresh up there and there is nothing much I did text which guy was cast on kind of an object that if the leaf does not support it 1 3 8 and it\u0027s not supposed to then the IP an IP goes to the parent how do you know that the IP IP goes to the parents it\u0027s because the rod is injected with a EP 8 which means X star in ripple so basically if the roots is the e bit set in the dowel then it needs to to I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:45",
    "text": "pin IP to the parent not to the note think about kind comments what I\u0027ve read the draft well right now so let me point it it\u0027s not a big drafts right yeah so yes sorry we have four li hua all right it\u0027s you did right so the only question really is do we want to change the dowel format or to put an option for the dowel format in this bag so we can carry the arrow and if we do that then we can redo the proxy dialog from the root to the 6 lb are properly we put that into the Megan list yesyes so we get the discussion yep thank you I will do unless I forget right so if it\u0027s in the minutes yes she can make that initial teach it and so he\u0027s willing to review the draft please thank you Michael who else where we are going to ask him the Middle East so I\u0027m looking at this slide I made because there were questions to the list so we get this question on the mailing list whether we should support meepo as well and well I\u0027m not too keen to be honest because that\u0027s completely a news back but I\u0027m open to two arguments on that because the clients could also Peter they could also be people unaware kind of right so do we need to do the same game from evil and aware leaves what is there to be done and is it the same document part of the middle prime is the hop-by-hop cannot be ignored either all right so we have the same prime for meepo as we did with the ripple hop-by-hop you have to translate it into something can being northern gorilla Michael I feel like maple is so much less well understood in as a group and as implementers that I wouldn\u0027t want to put it in the same document for that reason because I think we won\u0027t get what we need actually sure that it\u0027s as big a problem that\u0027s reunit cast because the biggest problem we have in unicast is that we with the unaware leaves is that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:45",
    "text": "we don\u0027t know where they what what the pot before them is right if we could know what the hop would reliably what the hop before them was they and we would be able to put all these artifacts addressed to them and they could be removed in the unaware leave just works right in unicast right the problems we don\u0027t know that which is the the issue and and and learning that is hard and compensating for it is hard but this is why I want to change the hub by option 2 to D sure actually they need other people back it to everybody well so so I agree with you that that that helps but I\u0027m also saying suggesting that for some unaware live leaves that need to do nipple I\u0027m actually finding that a real stretch to conceive of but maybe someone has a use case ok be unless that me exactly seem completely agree right personally right so so I\u0027m thinking about some really sleepy node window break sensor or something like that that is using nipple to I don\u0027t know what but the point is that if it\u0027s a really sleepy node something else is going to have to door store so since that thing is storing and since the the middle packet is a new packet does being sent we can send it unicast if necessary with whatever else because there has to be some kind of thing happening there so maybe that there\u0027s a bunch of cases that where we think that it\u0027s nipple to the to the leaf it doesn\u0027t actually have to be it can be the last hop can be unicast and therefore we do whatever we like because it has to be stored anyway so I suggest that I don\u0027t want to discourage you from writing a document but I would suggest that we need to actually kind of wit not wait for someone to come up with a real use case or a real situation where this happens or as I feel in the unicast case we kind of do know what is going on maybe Carsten and and the core and those people have a real use case that\u0027s going to happen and that that would be great then we would know what we\u0027re dealing with yeah but but okay what you\u0027re telling us so far is there are a lot of unknowns we need a good description of the promised and then it\u0027s probably a separate document you don\u0027t bother the idea of doing it just say not this back let\u0027s publish this one yes pretty much do you agree with that Peter yeah me actually this is indeed a requirement from the deep sleep node that is really please you\u0027re supposed to speak your name solely ciao Anita a requirement from the parsnip note which need to support our way and where we meepo we cannot use "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:47",
    "text": "unicast er to send the multicast packet because it we are support image that if a thousand of people deep asleep node connect to one power node that you need to up to firm your operator for the tips of Noda we suppose to use multicast so it\u0027s better to support your deep sleep node actually synchronized to a broadcast schedule right yes they do at least that we need to support one kind of multicast whatever NPR or other Mallika\u0027s protocol Michael Richards can so that\u0027s wonderful that\u0027s great use case in and I get what you\u0027re saying but what I\u0027m what I\u0027m trying to say is that because the packet going out is different than the packet coming in and none of those sleepy noes are expected to relay the note are they no because they\u0027re too sleepy to do that so it\u0027s it seems acceptable that we send can send a different set of headers on that multicast cuz we\u0027re not expecting that that that packet to get relayed again right all we can expect them to adjust ignore all the the 6002 deride oh well that would be what the document would then say could we could put it in and they could ignore it but that requires them to change no if we make it too we need to change meatball right because we make every change it change nipple but but I\u0027m saying what I\u0027m trying to say is that if if you\u0027ve got the synchronization it\u0027s happening and none of those nodes that are expected to receive that message during that wake-up period are expected to relay but then then there\u0027s no point in inputting any headers on it\u0027s just a late just a local multicast if some of them are going to relay and some of them will not because they\u0027re sleepy and they\u0027re all waking up at that time then it makes sense to do that in that particular use case I understand that the unaware leaves are really leaves it\u0027s part of being unaware is being leaves right it\u0027s kind of right so you don\u0027t rely I mean it\u0027s part of the terminology here right beautiful no stock no small remark I don\u0027t think if you do maple in this document because it is a completely different protocol with repeaters etc so the problem is completely different so not discussed here otherwise sing around don\u0027t not quite sure what about trickle it\u0027s not maple this trick of it is for the distribution of knowledge through the whole and network right but what what else interesting do I I need some trick on this document or what I mean I don\u0027t see why you\u0027re ringing you mean for the meatball story right no for the trickle "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:47",
    "text": "you have to track oh okay this document I\u0027m asking do you want me to change this document say something about trickle roof I was afraid you wanted me to do to say it\u0027s something about trickle here so what so true you want to talk about trickle in another document to solve what not to solve if you have a maple problem we should say look also they take up a problem and not discuss it here okay I\u0027d fine and I\u0027ve seen yeah yeah yeah sure and meepo is interleaved with trickle you might be so it\u0027s it\u0027s a long consideration you\u0027re telling us basically it\u0027s not just a side effect of this document so I agree with that and I think what\u0027s wrong [Music] yeah so if you have if you see that we are missing something from a plane unaware leave now is the right time to say because I hope we go with this document to last call very soon the only thing I see missing right now is whether we push the rover in the Dow or not well if you make complete a ticket and let\u0027s go because we need the ingredients either I do it or not and then we go yeah when it\u0027s reducing as well premiums we need the reviews yes obviously that\u0027s part of going well our best goal is to get all those regions now if some if you could find one or two reviews right now that would speed the process right she can advance a little baby okay not so much people have read this document but please who is willing to review Michael you raise their hands right yes thank you what it who else okay thank you yes no no I\u0027m no not people thank you Pascal pretty much so it\u0027s George from him to Atlantic this is the update from the version zero one so we have this equation zero for I will go to the next slide one of the details so first of all many thanks to Dominique Diego Arun Abbas Carla so to Dominican to Diego for the thorough review so we got a bunch of comments and then are all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:48",
    "text": "named Pascal for the discussions we had the mailing list so the main changes that we got to zero for is but now we are having the common ancestors define a subjective function it is draft in three different patterns then we change the title to reflect the change of the common ancestor objective functions so have a new title in this document then so the common ancestor pattern is not anymore as an example in the document but it is as objective function so it is a prescriptive prescriptive next thing is the next big thing that we changed is that we removed any reference that we had about six Laura or six law I don\u0027t know how to pronounce this yeah yes which lures load/unload where H ok so we remove so there\u0027s no conflict this based on the discussions we had with Pascal with Dominic about this about this point and the third yeah there were like many comments on the ability improvement so we address these ports as well but sort of the main changes and so before asking for the w GLS if there will be any other if it\u0027s necessary to have any other review round of reviews to see about the structure or the new version that we have now a subjective function so this is a question to the church shall we call it now or you want us to call it Singapore do you think it\u0027s complete or do you still see problems which are going have to be solved you seem rather confident that the thing is rounded clear finished so were like two things and now it\u0027s the big tube the two big things that we solved the one was the sixth floor H and the other ones the the objective function to be defined so we follow the discussion based on the comments reviews and the mailing list and we do not have any other big issue to come on our hello everyone so if something would be helpful if you if someone would take a look is actually a bit maybe an editorial issue so the way we defined the objective function is what would be the equivalent of an object-oriented the extension of mr. Hoff so we took basically every section in the mr. Hoff RFC and we said how our "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:52",
    "text": "objective function is different because basically it\u0027s an extension of mr. Hoff so I\u0027m not sure I haven\u0027t done this before I\u0027m not sure this is the correct or incorrect way to do it so maybe some feedback on that would be useful thank your is um who\u0027s being to review the that Pascal you the meek thank you very much it\u0027ll be quick Dominica means everything\u0027s the same has just changed the structure actually yes me too Ramos I think what you did is exactly okay I had the same discussion about how the fragmentation updates or does not update existing documents when you say I update and when you say you don\u0027t in this case you are not updating mr. half because mr. half steel stands as it is for the use case you\u0027re just in everything from it in inject that you\u0027re using what you don\u0027t modify the way it already exists and then there are things you magnify so I think it\u0027s perfectly okay to express it this way and you don\u0027t need to say you update mr. half but you can say you should have a section saying I\u0027m extending mr. half and your option is I\u0027m doing on top of it yes yeah and I think it\u0027s perfect just expressing what we have and making sure everybody agrees but we are doing the exact same way in other drawers and it seems to be okay yeah just commending I looked at the diff and it\u0027s hardly no more than one page of difference so it\u0027s pretty easy to read but the point I was I wanted to make is that then we have to go back to mr. off to see exactly what additions you\u0027re placing on it said that\u0027s the most I make emilyschutt preference then I\u0027m just saying okay you said it\u0027s easy it will be easy it will be quick as I said the changes in your draft is a small but the implications are that you have to go back and read mr. Huff again in which are you understanding activity so a little bit of what step maybe maybe a small remark is on what Pascal was saying before so since we removed all the references about the compression at the da-jung for the sixth floor so I binned it was a good idea of having a new document maybe how to compress the control plane can be another document to to all together potentially thank you and so we have two reviewers Dominique and Raul thank you very much guys thanks so much guys the rest are just back up slides but I\u0027m not sure if it\u0027s necessary both some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:54",
    "text": "comments questions who have read it this document this document we saw the implementation here you have many research papers we are even teaching this to the school now I know it\u0027s great so what do we do is research so we need the total reviews of Dominique and row and then we can great and then we go to for last call lovely thank you thank you here I just have a question for some of the people that have just presented some things mentioned you\u0027re teaching them yeah so I have a question I\u0027m not exactly related to the group but is ietf interest the documents that you\u0027re writing are they\u0027re being counted by your professional tenure review committees no okay just curious if that was something something better in your world that I so much concur with Michael there is a big problem with our Asian IGF and academia is that the RFC should be counted look a look at Google Scholar right it counts patents it counts documents normal publications and it counts RFC\u0027s all that are valid documents I mean we really need to work hard with the academia to get our our public she\u0027s recognized okay thank you guys so now we have no we don\u0027t or what sorry no I shouldn\u0027t have that word hello Hiram can you hear me okay okay right so I\u0027ll start so Java from harbor technologies I\u0027m going to talk about I love extreme so we can have good return thank you so just let me know and I can advance so the talk is about I\u0027m going to talk about emoji extinction which is a pretty straightforward thing to do the proposition is very straightforward and the other thing is the capabilities "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:54",
    "text": "handshake which in my opinion is a little bit complex is definitely more complex than M okay extension both of the things are handled in the same document now well the need for a mopey extension the mode of operation extension is quite straightforward we already have existing drafts which are eager to use new mo peas and we have already exhausted the existing mo fees what is an MLP it\u0027s it specifies it mandates the primitives to be supported by the 6lr if a node has to join as a 6lr in the network it has to support the mode of operation if it doesn\u0027t support the mode of operation then it has to it can it can join as a leaf node it\u0027s three bits in size and it\u0027s already exhausted you can see in the bottom right-hand side that there are existing documents waiting to be using those course next like this like aiya so moppy extension option this is a new option that is introduced it\u0027s a pretty straightforward option now one one one question here would be the extended mo p-value if you see the number of bits that have allocated for extended mo p-value is quite high and I am not sure if those many extended mo P values would indeed be required in the future the reason why I ask is this directly impacts the control over head of the TI o so so I am considering maybe shortening the size of the six extended mo p-value here if there is any feedback from the working group in this context I would like to understand next slide please yeah thank you I was thinking that usually you\u0027ve got a type and subtype like sometimes you have something like snoring and then you could have variations of it right right now we kind of have collections of bits and each one seems to be either/or like you know you could have both like your these are your these are your that I want to make sure that we express things in a fashion that you can have these these this and that so you set multiple bits so there is a main thing and then some options so just what offer we express it but today right all the maps are exclusive that\u0027s why I\u0027m saying you got a mix of throwing a non-story but what we want to extend in the extension want to be able to do some mixers like I can have a mix of non stirring and projected broth just to give you an example now in main rods and projected storing mode rods or mix of a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:55",
    "text": "non storing projection I don\u0027t know so we just don\u0027t want exclusive rights like this is exactly what is thought about when writing this chart and that\u0027s when I thought about introducing capabilities you know so if if we have something which goes along with the existing mo P then we can Ricky we can we can handle it in the form of capabilities this is what I was thinking does that make sense I mean if there is any existing if there are any any any new set of options that go along with the existing a movie those could be those to be expressed in the form of capabilities is what I\u0027m thinking yes right I think I think that both right capabilities can be is it\u0027s more like I can do that right di yo mobile for Parisienne is here is how this network works it\u0027s not that it\u0027s capable of doing something that\u0027s the way it works so I\u0027d like to use the map for what the map is and say it\u0027s an on storing and it\u0027s using projected Road storing a non-story I don\u0027t know and if the rules are if you can\u0027t you know do those things then you don\u0027t join this network as a router you have a leaf at best the rules are located but much this thing capability is different that I can do this that\u0027s nice use it or not and then there is another thing which which which is needed in the in the in your draft is I can do it and it\u0027s on all rights off for instance you\u0027re using use of ripple info okay there is a hop-by-hop that well there\u0027s a new up I hope there is this new flag in the DIA which says a it\u0027s all no itself it\u0027s controlled on/off by the route but what did the node receive it did not apply it so the node is asked to be capable of supporting the new hub I hope that\u0027s one thing so it\u0027s a capability and then it has okay I\u0027m using it right now so I understood what the route told me and I switched it on which is next to capability but it\u0027s actually actually how I use it right now so also all this is more right it\u0027s a bit more one example just I want to go here so if you see the existing mo piece we have storing mode of operation and then we have storing mode of operation with multicast support those use two different mo piece and I don\u0027t see any other way of using it so something if something is mandatory it will eventually end up taking a new mode of operation maybe I\u0027m not have not fully got just of what you are trying to say maybe you can discuss this offline but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:56",
    "text": "if there are things which have to be manually supported by the 6l ours then they go in as a new mo p value altogether the problem with this approach is you have multiple set for example you have multicast support and you have storing mode of operation and all the permutations all the combinations will have to become a new mo p value so let\u0027s differentiate what goes in the configuration option and what goes in the MRP in the contribution option you can turn something or not in the ARP you are capable of doing it or you don\u0027t join the network so if we want to build a network and we need projected route then you need to have the bits which you are used to for the storing and on storing you also need to have the bits which they would say oh we\u0027re using Project instance projection storing and polishing non storing and that gives you an array of bits in the map here and if you want join us a router you need to support all those bits otherwise you don\u0027t join or leave kind of now the configuration option some time you don\u0027t even know you don\u0027t know right because those bits are reserved until I used so that\u0027s part of the progress if you don\u0027t know that you don\u0027t this bit is now meaningful then you cannot know you don\u0027t support it so you can\u0027t add to say you join on it on join Michael alright so Fran awaits in the next so the next thing in this in this draft is about capabilities which which essentially indicate the set of features which could possibly mandatory or optional so so the new specs which finds the new capability indicate whether it is mandatory or optional and that the the existing craft would provide some some recommendations or at least some some some basic rules as to what have to be minimally specified for every new capability now why a mu P by itself is not sufficient well it is pretty much clear that mo P mandates the primitives while capabilities are not mandated in those can be optional features and unlike a mu P capabilities can be negotiated we have a three-way handshake in a form of D iota and our work and capabilities can be sent as part of the Felicity\u0027s annex like this next like this yak slide please if I may say Raul also a capability is not a little bit right for instance we need for the projection the capability to tell the route I can get one of the maximum that you can program but do you think that should go in every capability might have some additional information that needs to be specified now-now-now it\u0027s it\u0027s not possible for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:58",
    "text": "capability bit by itself to actually cover all those cases so I am assuming once you have the capability options there will be other sub objects exactly you need to provide the container and then in the projection I will provide the sub options I mean dated T RVs that tell what I need to provide the envelope floret okay so as of now the the capability options are pretty straightforward we just have a series of bits which are dedicated as capability flags each of this capability flag will be defined as a different time in as part of the news new specification or as part of any new any other work this this draft only specifies the capability options as in the number of bits that have to be carried the next next light weighs now the use case for route using the capabilities the route can signal all the nodes in the in the network what capabilities route support in the response you have no node sending the dow responding with its own capabilities and in the Dow I possibly route can tell the node whether it is okay to continue with such a capability the three-way handshake again has to be has to be mentioned as part of the spec which defines a new capability whether it requires with whether it essentially requires such a three-way handshake or or whether it is okay just to say that I support this and then stop it I it completely depends upon the new capability that has to be support next like this now now this this slide is interesting because it allows so what does like tells you is there could be six LR nodes in between who are also sending which are also sending the iOS and there has been there are capabilities from the root node and and sister nodes which the 6lr receives is would it be okay for this 6lr to mask some of the capabilities because so that is something that is not there in the draft as of now has not been discussed in the draft as of now but that certainly seems to be possible that certainly seems to be technically feasible to handle it in this chart so yeah next next slide please yeah that\u0027s a very interesting question how because this is not duration option this is very very different yeah the configuration option cannot be masked draw cannot be modified at all because that\u0027s the configuration of the do dang now this one gives capabilities and for instance a parent can could have maximum 100 children I don\u0027t know and it might be useful and we know it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:59",
    "text": "useful to be able to express number on you have or no more frauds that you have in storing mode so that people would prefer to join someone else because you\u0027re reaching your maximum in that case obviously it seems that some capabilities have to be written or rewritten as you go right so certainly the kept of it is not something that comes from the root so if you want to have root capabilities then in the separate entry that cannot be modified but then you chef you know kappa other capabilities you know essentially what happens is depending upon the individual capabilities that are defined the the the new specs have to tell whether this capabilities can be modified on the intermediates excel hours next next like this so some of the other points to work upon is or some of the other points that I would like to mention here is the capabilities and the mobis even though they are as part of the same drafts are completely exclusive and they are not dependent upon each other the capabilities can be made use of with existing mo keys as well it is it is technically possible to use existing mo pieces secondly the capabilities are going to introduce new control and so is it would it be possible for would it be possible to LA he lied these capability options if it is if it is not I mean I mean it should be possible to not send every di di message with this capability option so I\u0027m considering whether whether the i/o configuration just like a DI configuration option this can be lighted or not then we have our now reducing the control overhead of more pegs might be more challenging so I don\u0027t know how how this can be achieved but but yeah we are open to any feedback from the working group on how this can be achievable there is no control order of morphix annex like this so there has been a use case already discussed on the mailing list about the turn on sex lawyer RH and I just wanted to throat a proposition here that rather than using a configuration flag for setting the t flag in in in the bi-lo configuration option wouldn\u0027t it be more easier or more feasible to handle it as part of the capabilities option itself so that we don\u0027t have to change out of 6550 and this this is just something that that I want to float and this is something that I thought about next like this and thank you thank you George\u0027s for this for the review we had made several updates post that one of the things that is updated is the clarification that mopix if it is absent and if the base mo p "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:02",
    "text": "suggest that my mopix should be present then how it should be handled by the implementation secondly it has been made explicit whether cap and more pics are are mutually exclusive and the detail I and I considerations have been added to the yeah Michael that\u0027s the end of the slides are they usually yes they might I mean I don\u0027t have all the individual capabilities actually depends on their movie Oh Michaels here so mutually exclusive would mean that I couldn\u0027t put them in a month that is in the same packet what sorry exclusive would mean is care for a cap you know what I mean what I meant or suffered ideas the mo penis is religion so you don\u0027t have to support a certain mo P to support capabilities as well you can have capability options and the more pecs in the same D our message that is certainly possible okay okay okay okay I think those words are not what you mean all right because the wrong words because I think that would be confusing but so I have some comments Michael Richardson here about the sites not avoiding to the end I did scan through your draft as he started speaking I hadn\u0027t read it before and I have I first of all I think it\u0027s a very good idea I think we should immediately adopt it I don\u0027t know if we should split it into a cap document and a mop packs document there the pushback is you know too many documents right as far as I can see the two concepts are are completely independent right and maybe one will take longer than the other or you know I don\u0027t know I don\u0027t know the answer that question maybe our ad can tell us at some point I I read about the MA packs that if the ma packs is seven sorry if the moth is seven then you add the number that you find in the mop X to that value so effectively you will get numbers in the mop zero through six and then the first number in the mop X will be zero meaning its rights the mop is seven right and we have we basically extend you exactly adding to it okay that\u0027s what I understood okay okay so I think that\u0027s a bad idea I think that we should put when the mop is seven then I think real mop is in the mop X and yes you could put seven in the mop and then two in the mop X which would get whatever the value two was which is may be redundant you\u0027d be stupid to do that but I think that will be simpler to understand and simpler to code right if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:04",
    "text": "this number is seven then the real number is here I\u0027m using two hands that you can\u0027t see okay I think that\u0027ll be easier and less confusing to code as opposed to adding the two things and someone will get something wrong by putting negative numbers or something like that or fine extending something okay I too do you want to respond to that Pascal uh yeah I would like to react on that one please I wasn\u0027t with person concur with mic on that what I wanted to wait for and raise the might say that and also to answer you on the other thing you said is hug by compress things well because seven says that the map is in the MOU text it also means that if you don\u0027t have a map extent you have to wait for next year you to know what the map is so you compress it right it\u0027s kind of obvious once you have adapted Michael\u0027s proposal that you can compress the map back so I lied it no when you want to alight it just by saying eh it\u0027s not there in seven if the map is not there and you have seven that means wait for the next yeah you to know what the map is that comes with it it\u0027s just all right not at all so good I don\u0027t think I don\u0027t know if you have enough that your question is do you have too many bits for the math X maybe I don\u0027t think the mop X should be bit encoded I think Pascal was thinking you know there would be a bit here and a bit there I think that yes we have an a cross product of different kinds of things that we need to do not all those cross products will make sense okay having a bit field is hard to compress compressing it to an integer for the ones that we care about is probably better for compression so if you want to use fewer bits then and but give us at least I would say 7 to 128 combinations it\u0027s probably good okay and because I don\u0027t think that we\u0027re I don\u0027t think that we want to have the the testing complexity of having to test devices in to to the number of bits possibilities of things we want to say well well there was two to the you know twelve bits possibilities only twelve of them actually never makes sense in the field so we have twelve test cases not 2048 so I think that\u0027s an important point yes okay I can sorry I can buy that but then I would like to express it not as - but that\u0027s 2.5 meaning meaning the two is what\u0027s military and the dot five is what\u0027s up Shauna or something like that just I think my I was not very clear what I wanted to do with this discussion but what I really want to do is right now the map is all of nothing and I was thinking in the projection if I ever knowed that doesn\u0027t do projection what do I do with this guy can I can you join us leaf can is join us nothing can Israel as router but not preferred you know so the dots Fife allows me to say hey I need to support the two the two operators at 2.5 if I can do the dot "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:06",
    "text": "five I can still be a parent or something like I don\u0027t know I I feel that that needs more further discussion so I understand that I\u0027m not going to go into it I I wonders if the DAO projection can be expressed as a capability i dot sure it can I always thought it had to be a mop I always thought that we maybe can make heterogeneous networks by somehow reporting ability to support dial projection in the doubt and I can\u0027t remember if we did that in the document now that\u0027s another interesting discussion because I wouldn\u0027t want if you don\u0027t mind if we have time to come back to the previous slide why it\u0027s actually about the eight one three eighteen compression also easy to capability or you know and it\u0027s not a matter of map of configuration options right I\u0027m concerned that we take things where they belong which could be map and configuration option and try to put everything in capability well the capability is just I can do that it\u0027s not how it works right so so that may be the argument why this belongs in one document not to because maybe we document has some examples of why what what things are capabilities and what things require new mops and what are the Ayanna registry rules for for that maybe that\u0027s why it belongs in one document know what it means to do something in the configuration where in them up with our in the capabilities right so I don\u0027t have an answer for what you just said but I like it I like Raoul very much that you\u0027ve introduced these capabilities it seems like that should be a bit field and I to remember something about the containerization of it whether or not we can extend the bit filled up arbitrarily by just making it longer but I can\u0027t remember both the container of that part but so that would be great and I think that we should adopt this and if and I further say if if this takes if the discussion takes the entire tyre T of the next IETF role session I\u0027m okay with that because I think this is a really valuable thing to get past because and I don\u0027t and I think we actually need to delay maybe we want a virtual interim I think we need to delayed out projection until we figure this out because we can\u0027t publish that projection without having figured out how we figure out whether it\u0027s on or not okay I had the similar discussion very recently this is infrastructure work right how can you build a house if you don\u0027t have a solid infrastructure so we need to refine what those things are we need to define what goes where and explain it correctly and once we\u0027ve got this infrastructure work in place now the turn-on and projection can all use it so I will work on projection don\u0027t worry but we cannot ship projection until this is shipped anyway so there is no point in erring 100% on projection if we don\u0027t have this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:07",
    "text": "so I\u0027m completely with Michael if we can have a mooring - whatever yeah 100% thank you very much Michael that\u0027s a comment I need to go back to the meetings and minutes of meetings and the video maybe yeah so royal don\u0027t go please if we have time I just have a question on your previous slide so here you seem to send a Dao from the route to a 6-0 and another Dao from the route to another 6-0 and I don\u0027t know how you plan to do that because the Jo is not unicast right it\u0027s spread and the route capabilities are who warned that the wood sets and it\u0027s a bit like the configuration it cannot be changed it will be the same for everybody you means the root capability if you want to turn on something that goes into the configuration option right and we have that\u0027s a configuration thing it\u0027s not a capability its root can say it\u0027s capable but then if it\u0027s capable is capable for everybody so I know I think actually it\u0027s part of your draft to say that this case would be a misuse of capability and you can\u0027t have different route capability the capability is what I can do is not what I\u0027m controlling on the others the root is controlling through the configuration option not true the capability actually this is exactly what we I don\u0027t think we should be doing right with this okay so I have them again there have been many points made here the multicast that the MIT cast huh all right anything my view is capability and this is not it is the configurations my view but that\u0027s where your chart will be very very important because it will it will contain our common agreement so one thing wrong but clearly now in the States out or differentiate between the configuration option demo P and capability so this has to be clearly clearly specified in the introduction section somewhere in the document okay thank you around now we are going to rise the working group adoption so who is agree with this government I want to be adopted hum please please ham for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:09",
    "text": "adoption for yes forgers yeah okay we need this works I mean is clearly obvious who is against okay and we are going to confirm with the middle east but thank you very much to the outdoors for bringing that up so next Haley he\u0027s going to present okay Lena from Cisco I introduced this after about enabling eighty one thirty eight in brownfield and as you know eighty one thirty eight is used to compress up he people are the factors such as the API header and sorting handle and is fine in a new deployment but we find that there is a capability issue when we need to upgrade the network to support eighty one thirty eight you know the all the FC to support sorting sorting header and the RPI option is fired about eight years ago so we have deprived the millions of device which turned to support eighty one thirty eight and in 81 so narrator in a thousand covered colic extent and and migration scenario so that\u0027s the requirement of the chapter we need to support it issue and the Incans can contrast search after use of reporting for its assets fighter three in to data configuration which indicates it\u0027s used twenty three four up here header so there is no call extent case forty struct it works yeah it works for this use of reporting for chapter and we add another flag T in the to tell configure option please note it\u0027s a configuration of option it\u0027s not a capability and it can avoid Flag Day which is a flag day it means in currently deployment if we need to under upgrade the network from now eighty one thirty eight to eighty one thirty eight we need to make sure or node in this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:09",
    "text": "network I mean upgrade the firmware and we need to Newport Network you know that if we need to be put network it will cause of lack day and the you know customer doesn\u0027t like these cases and if we use this rafter we can avoid a flat day the new upgrade flow that is nodes can migrate to new code with flag off that means we can we can disable the t flag and they\u0027ll upgrade the firmware and after we Apple Apple creator or the firmware we can open the flag to enable the eighty one thirty eight and you know if no that cannot support eighty one thirty eight they can stay as as leaves if they stay at leaves we there\u0027s no crab the issue okay this is the operation and know that that support destructor should sauce packets in the compress the form use 81 38 when the t flag is set and another support this chapter should refrain from sorting packets in the compressor form with 81 38 with t flag reset this is the this is how to use the t flag and the regardless of the setting of the pit the loader master for the packet in the form it is received whether it\u0027s compressed or uncompressed this is about transition the t flag in the to tell configuration option prevents flag days that might otherwise included trunk loss operators can refresh over the air and then restart the device sonorously keeping the network globally life I think this is the most important advantage for teens draft that is we can make the network keep life when we upgraded to support it once at the 8th and network can only be migrated to T\u0027s specification if all notes support 81 38 or the remaining node stay as the leaves if we fail to observe that the drug may cause the remaining node received the compressed packet in 81 38 for more "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:09",
    "text": "format they\u0027ll take him neither uncompressed nor for what so we need to make sure the node that had done to support 81 38 stay as leaves and we have some method to keep them as leaves we can use a new map or we can use a new object function that can keep the latency nodes to stay as leaves if all possible roads are not compatible of 81 38 the zone maybe is loaded and we propose two scenarios to enforce leaf enforce the node as leaves we can use single instance or doubling instance the single instance means we should keep the flag off and we use the new board or new object function to upgrade all the network and after we are up with the upgraded we should enable the T flag and let legends in know the two P dips and the double instance this is the same as the ship in night case in 6 5 5 0 which we can find it the last one is we need to encapsulate the parent that means if some know the stay as leaves it means it\u0027s a doesn\u0027t support anyone\u0027s at the 8 so it\u0027ll stay at leaves say in this case if we want to send a packet to this leaf node we need to in have you later the packet who is parent the impaired endure came decompressed packet and forward to the leaf nodes this is just the same as our way our leaf and we need to we still need some work to four fields inside okay that\u0027s all sets or forties draft Michael Richardson I don\u0027t think we want to I agree with what you\u0027re doing it\u0027s good I don\u0027t think that amok would help because we would have to double the number of mops because we\u0027d have to have one for on and off for each one of them so I don\u0027t think we ever would a mop would ever use I don\u0027t know the venom Oh F would work but maybe it would if a capability will work then we should try that because I think this is a a shove whether the capability is useful that would be my preference maybe that takes too long in the working group but I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:09",
    "text": "not sure and so I just don\u0027t know if it works or not and I think maybe Pascal\u0027s gonna stay there the the the the whole business about encapsulating things to the parent so that the parent can decompress them and send them along yeah remove the tunnel I\u0027m just I\u0027m not a I\u0027m not actually sure that\u0027s necessary to encapsulate to do that because we are just compressing ipv6 so at each node logically we are uncompressing ipv6 and so it\u0027s okay to Incred and compress and decompress differently right so I don\u0027t know that we need to do that there which makes things a lot easier they still have to be leaves because they can\u0027t understand other things but the critical part is their parent has to know that there they are incapable they could actually operate as routers if all of the nodes were willing to do that to keep track of parents and children to keep track of what they can do but I grew it agree that that is an uninteresting from a you know upgrading point of view you\u0027re selling the middle the network the packets get bigger because we didn\u0027t compress them as well that seems dumb right and for the first question I think that a new object function can can tell a section in sixty five five zero which identifier we can use a new object function the means if the node cannot recognize the object function it should to stay as a leaf yes so we can suppose to use that one works I\u0027m not saying it\u0027s a good idea but I agree with me it works because the new nodes which become configured with the new wealthier ones will just ignore it yeah and so we would build that Earthship in night so so it would work another thing it\u0027s durable was just proposed all the options and I tend to disagree it\u0027s a capability again we have to define what we mean by the world capabilities and what we want to place in that options I think it\u0027s really just like use of ripple info it\u0027s the same thing and because the same thing it\u0027s much more logical to use the same means you use b3 we want to use b2 right it\u0027s Semco same effect we are very logical we have the same approach to everything so that\u0027s why we started with this bit regardless of the progress of capabilities because I want to progress capabilities anyway more like mo of interest is like if we want to avoid the primer from caps or anything why would this node which does not support the feature just join us unaware leaf right we could say a if you join us leaf now we have the support for unaware why do you need to be aware what does it bring to you all right because we\u0027re facing an early guess node which does not understand the new mode of operation which does not understand what ripple is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:10",
    "text": "doing and so we told initially in repo everybody had to be a leaf so we said eh you have to be a colleague but now we\u0027ve got this new thing which is the ripple unaware leaf and because since you know you don\u0027t understand what\u0027s going on this ripple Network why try why don\u0027t you just join us anywhere Ethan that\u0027s it and that solved our caps problem because I know what if already already as the process for it thank you very much yeah we need reviews who is willing to review this document please price him so two things on this draft it\u0027s it\u0027s like a two pager right it\u0027s it\u0027s actually my fault because when when I read your rewrite reviews of reporting for itself I realized hey I forgot to do that with eight one three eight it\u0027s my fault and because because I forgot to do that now we\u0027ve got to work on all those transition scenarios in all things right but it also means it\u0027s a very simple draft like it\u0027s one bit in one configuration option so we already need it in the field we would like to deploy it once created weekend so the more we delayed this work the longer it\u0027s going to take to deploy it once right so all we\u0027re asking is just a bit which is very very similar in a sense as the one we just ship in use of report info so I don\u0027t think it would should take two years for this group to do the work through that bit I mean we have a longest three at the HF of making FCS in four to ten years I would like this one to prove that we can do something in six months it\u0027s one date which starts with quick adaption yeah per se who is willing to review please who have Thank You Micah who ends activation of my personal opinion cut off is that convinced not well understood at this moment so for me personally I\u0027m not clear if this is a special salute special solution to such a problem or that we should have in general solution which we can apply it more often and just use in general decision algorithm which can be adapted for these kinds of things actually it\u0027s replicating the solution that we used for use of ripple information so it\u0027s just replicating it and we hope that we can replicate again so it\u0027s not a first it\u0027s actually a second it\u0027s just because I did not do in this draft art we didn\u0027t use of ripple info which is provided a way to do the brown field I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:10",
    "text": "just wrote it in a green field without thinking of Brahms field use of ripple info thought about brown field at the bit so now I\u0027m adding the bit as the second start means dump the most complex is actually that we have to write all those words about possible transitions right but the actual thing we standardized Israel at Oak Valley so particle you brown it it\u0027s only request one bit is required like isn\u0027t it required that all the other nodes the nodes also mentioned or also indicate that they already support six lower edge so it\u0027s not only about one bit right I mean the nodes also need to indicate to the route that they\u0027d supports the cleric there is nice to have which we don\u0027t have in news of ripple info and I would like you to add in actually to just as a starter for the capabilities draft I told you there are two bits really it is true for use of ribbon for it\u0027s true for this one is one bit which is I can do it and the other bit which is I started it it\u0027s running we can live without that use of repairing lives without that expects that a guy who deploys knows what is in his network and what software he has in his nodes and guess what usually they so it\u0027s just for a better automation or something like that that you would like to know whether it has actually be turned on but the weights written if some notes if all notes support it and some notes turn it on its gonna work it\u0027s not like you need everybody to learn done because you have to for the packets the way they are written right so if the administrator knows the current level of software of his notes and you knows that they are all now graded and use this bit to turn it down it\u0027s gonna work for meat enough to ship this draft was enough to ship use of ripple info now I would love to for this draft and for use of ripple info to have the capabilities by the node I can support it as I\u0027ve switched it up whether it goes in this bag fine yours back I don\u0027t mind they will ship together so I would say it\u0027s good to have good examples in your spec so it could goes in your spec for a for use of ripple info it has to go in your spec because use of employ it\u0027s already shipped I proposed you to discuss the adoption on the on the mailing list please see more poeple see more opinions and more alternatives maybe for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:18",
    "text": "additional comments okay then the last last five minutes the has been and and design team working on the beer ripple work it has convened a few times there\u0027s focus has been made has been made Understanding between especially Pascale and Kirsten but the last three months we have not seen too much focus and have been people have other occupations so it is at this moment it is not really to go further further forward with this design team and what we wanted to do is that we consider that there is this draft which is done a failure on the very limited scope of using beer within the hole which has been proposed and we wanted to continue this draft and this the very way that Bosco can look at it see that it will fit in the grander scheme that he has in mind and then go forward like that and we will leave abandoned and for the moment this concept of the design team and we\u0027ll just wait for traps to be proposed and then forward them to the working group that\u0027s the idea anybody any comments on that no great then I still have three minutes maybe this will not be solved in three minutes but I\u0027m happy to have our ad present we should be recharter I mean that\u0027s almost the promises we made at the end of this year of other stop well now I\u0027ve seen that there\u0027s a certain set of new documents are going forward in this in this group we have also an outgoing documents going for which so which means that other healthy group at this moment maybe you don\u0027t see the number of but we all use work and have very good results so I don\u0027t think that we need to change the Charter and that without changing the church are we just continue is that possible a lot already anything is possible great but however villains work so I\u0027ve liked very much how you guys have managed the working group in the you periodically recharter to add things in scope and go from there now I honestly didn\u0027t read the Charter in the last seconds so I remember exactly all the details of the Charter but the last few times that we have recharter it has been to include specific work items so I have been happy with that I\u0027m sure that the Charter says something around work on Ripple and you know something that so in theory there are other things "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:20",
    "text": "that are in the Charter right the risk of putting specific work items is that the assumption is that others are not let\u0027s go right so you know for one point of view I want to I guess my answer to read the Charter and think of it about a little bit you know we could you create a charter that is more general not necessarily to the point of we\u0027ll do anything we want with Ripple but yeah to you know talk about general things that we might want to work and then we could we meaning you can manage the working group using the milestones all right with agreement for the working group of what are the I don\u0027t know two things three things whatever that you\u0027re gonna work over the next year for example then you can put in the milestones of Management that way instead of having to reach Artur every other year trust that you know I think you guys have done a really good job in keeping the focus on the working group that doesn\u0027t necessary have to be done by the Charter and I think they\u0027re working group being a relatively small community is really good in not just diverging and bringing all kinds of of other proposals so so yeah I would be opening with that ping me maybe later we can talk about you know specific sort of Charter and we can go from there and a half the actual I can actually really answer those the church have also really formulated in general terms there\u0027s a few examples of work that you wanted to do key my reformulate those may emphasize actually additional things what you want to do and then cite some of the examples which have been done and examples we want to be do and then possibly continue like that maybe I would have to see specifics of what that looks like okay good yes okay thank you very much everyone we are on time finish yeah so we will create the tickets for the open issues that we discussed yes yes we are going to play the tickets and dry stay working looper adoption call for the dough moments okay thank you very much everyone [Music] thank you "
  }
]