[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:12",
    "text": "okay give it another morning moment before we get started i did hear out of band that lars and jay may be up to 15 minutes late because of things going on at the conference that they're at like to remind everybody that can t go ahead and turn on video try to make this a as close to an around the table experience as we can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "i'll be squinting a lot today i apologize my glasses broke this morning and i'm on a makeshift pair and it's eye challenging so given that um jay and lars are are likely to be delayed a lot of the hot topic information i'd like to hold on to until they are present so my agenda bash is um to jump forward to the development projects section and then we'll jump back to the beginning after we uh after jay and lars have had a chance to join anybody have any other agenda bashes before we get started you started talking but it took a while for you to cut in and try again sorry uh yeah i'm just looking for the notes and the link in the data tracker for this meeting doesn't seem to lead me to a notes page that looks correct it said i'll put it into the chat for inside me to go okay i see liz liz has done that so okay yeah the lincoln data tracker point"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "well it's the automatic normally i've remembered to go put a redirect page back to these because the template that we use for these is different than what medico automatically the data tracker and medical automatically generate all right so i'm going to start in with a discussion of the data tracker at that point under development projects um help me keep an eye out for when jay and lars join hopefully they'll turn on video and it'll be dead obvious so we had several releases since the last call the major things that happened where we shifted the data tracker codebase to run on python39 have production running on three nine it is three nine and not a more recent version of python because that was what was um uh relatively straightforward for um glenn to install on the system was that was beyond three six we added support for the groups and streams needed for the rfc editor model and added them to the menuing links place support for the um roles are all in place what's not yet in place are ballots for our sab for the new editorial stream um when we work this out for the the irtf um so it shouldn't be too difficult to um make it available to r sub but it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "not a trivial a trivial lift we've got a fairly large set of things that are ready to deploy but we're in the process of pushing the last few things that we know we're ready to go in in and running a crawl before we cut a release we expect that we'll cut a release later this week some of the things that are already in there are affixed to the issue that we ran into where old draft versions have a chunk of text on the page that you're looking at that claimed that they were active that's been replaced with something that is a little bit more um truthful about the current state of the document um points out what that was active at the time that it was revised so um a bunch of small fixes we've got a number of prs that are in process that we hope to bring in fairly soon there's a list of them in the notes we are going to start back into the time zone aware time stamp work um later this week the development team will be meeting to re-familiarize ourselves with the problem and the work that was done to date and then start brainstorming on different approaches and we can take than the one that we had started down with entering before so that we can possibly get through this transition without a four-hour outage as the previous um plan had entailed our next big list after that are listed here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "you have seen these before we need to go through the work to make sure that we're capturing drafts that are fully expanded and aren't relying on external resources and we've got some fix up to do because we were processing the reference relationships on documents that were submitted in xml without processing the includes that they had those are both highly related but that works not likely to come in in this next month's cycle it will likely be the one after the time zone where time stamp work is is pretty large anybody have any questions about the data tracker yeah just a question there that only affects the submission right the the soon after buttons here the things that we're talking about the x include is going to be handled only in the submission subsystem that's correct that's what i thought you said i was just making sure yep kasari you want to talk about the high points on author tools and the wagtail website maybe so for another several releases the major changes are i added support for wdf initiative to simulate similar to the rfcd there are few changes so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "open an issue if it's for the review other changes are the main changes to add a new api endpoint for id needs for data tracker you can read the upcoming word for what the tools there under any any questions about what to do um so for blacktail website um there was one release with a cage updates and um python i don't know what fighter version was updated to 3.10 um there's some upcoming ongoing work with springload i have added a link to all those issues there i'll move on to xml to rx6 there are no i have one quick question on the website i saw in some of the communication with spring load um more discussion of single source for the um noel text is that landed on a design or is it still um is the conversation still at the we need to figure this out level our requirement is having a single source so they still haven't come up with the design or any condition yet because we when one of the things to remember is we want the data tracker to and and places like the wikis and whatnot to be able to um find that same chunk of text and reuse it all right so yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "that that page would be there but this text for that page would be in a single place one place in the admin interface so that can be added to different places in ietf website i've registered for mailing list or something like that well so but you're still keeping it scoped to the wagtail website and i'm trying to say that this single source needs to apply across all of our properties yeah i'll this is greg i'll say that that's um uh i didn't understand that as a requirement in before it's the same and it's like we've got a similar thing coming in with um the id guidelines um the other places where the data tracker has places where it presents them so the um shepard report for example is currently being put into wikijs and the data tracker is supposed to present it to people so that they can edit directly into it and we need to have an answer for you know having just one copy of these things and not having to keep other places in sync what what what what you want here is some kind of api for this text we can go through what the actual mechanics are later the requirement is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "is that when we change it we change it in one place and everything else automatically finds that change an api would be fine it living in github and everything knows to go get things out of github would be fine right there are different ways that we could skin this but what we need to get away from is the you know data tracker says one thing website says another thing okay well i think we've beaten that we can come back to it so um um so i'll move on to xml to rfc uh there are several releases you can read the release notes there major changes are support for python 3.10 fixed non-latin name rendering and i have updated the docker images and writing that script right now it makes all the images really quick especially on new mac machines upcoming work the better one major change would be dropping the support for python 3.6 i believe that could happen this week or next week they'll be released dropping that by the support for python 3.6 support any questions on xml rfc"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:08",
    "text": "hey casara i have a question for you this number 792 about use bib.itf.org i'm wondering if that's going to help when we use that option add x i include if it's right now it puts in the urls for the citation library for us when we're converting i can i don't know if this is it requires a separate ticket or not i'll put what i'm talking about into the chat so it's this option add include right now it puts in the citation library urls do i need to put on a ticket to ask that that url be changed to good.itf network so right right now the is not the default list sorry you you will break leave it breaking up for me can you repeat the question sorry i can ask you over slack all right i'll take it offline this this changes um i i didn't so one except rc there are default resources for citations um and this changes to add bit.itf.rg as the main one um they all citations should work because we will be setting up three direct predictions when we move to big.idf.j okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:08",
    "text": "any other questions so ryan i see you joined um we have jumped forward to give um um time for jay and lars to join before we go through the the hot topics we are at the mail archive and registration system part if you just want to speak to it you can type in notes later sure um there aren't any updates for the mail archive um registration i've been working on um the feature to switch back and forth or switch from remote to on-site um should be deployed today um uh there was a couple new reports i added this last month and some bug bug fixes basically but that's about it i have for that so on yang catalog um the end catalog project had a large series of major releases um over this last three weeks um they sent a fairly good summary to the mailing lists for for yang catalog eric was will put together a report at some point he wasn't able to get it in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "by the meeting today because of um the some cisco um is having its big open meeting this week um he's also worked out a work plan for um our contract with pantheon for the rest of the year and expects that he'll have that um he'll be able to show us that in in the next few days so we can track what's going on i entered a few notes about uh what we've been seeing with web analytics my um perspective is pretty dataset data tracker centric greg do you have anything that you want to add to this that's more general what but i don't have anything specific to add a rock dub dub dub which is what i mostly pay attention to yeah yeah so one of the things that greg and i have been started trying to poke at but haven't really gotten a lot of traction yet is it's really hard to see what's going on at the data tracker because of a large amount of garbage traffic that is being accounted for in the analytic system that means that somebody is what that means is that somebody's presenting a request to the data tracker that's going to 404 um just because it's either um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:04",
    "text": "misinformed about how it wanted to construct its url or was attempting to be malicious and the agent that presented the request goes ahead and runs the javascript that comes back in the response so the request gets recorded into the analytics and there is enough of that that it's hard to see the real traffic um separated from from from that garbage traffic and we're needing tea at least i would like to find a way to filter those things out um so that we can look at them separately all right real quick through the tail end of this i still don't see um jay or lars we'll just go back to the top of the meeting without them in a moment we've had no progress on um the any new actions on on the database review i say that i think glenn may have done a recheck of the recommendations that they made last um and i think i've got a piece of mail that i need to follow up on from glenn that talks about our next steps on that zx security has um been working their way through the statement of work for the um web services running on ietfa and sending reports we've been addressing the uh um more pressing issues that they've been reporting as they've been coming in um and we are queuing up work for some of the ones that are less pressing there hasn't been anything particularly massive um no frightening results have been coming"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "from them that have required emergency action on our part but they have been finding some nice nooks and corners of things that we needed to change so that um our security posture is a little bit better at a very high level this looks like making sure that some of our applications that we're using are at current versions some of the libraries that those applications are using are at current versions turning off some very old applications that we had still exposed and running that had become vulnerable either through code rot or were vulnerable all the time but nobody had poked at them things of that issue after we finish the cycle of remediation of the the small issues that we've um that they've identified um we do as said before indeed published the revised reports for all of these things all right mailman 3 is still waiting for cycles that will likely the dev team will have cycles for that after we get through the time zone where times temp transition so let's go ahead and roll back up to the front of the agenda we'll try to catch jay and lars up separately um in the hot topics the big one rfc production blocking issues we have nothing and um thank you alice for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "the the nod towards cazar's quick work we are at the point of turning down tools.ietf.org i expect to do that sometime next week um the final steps are accepting the bib xml work from ribose which we are in the process of doing today started yesterday we'll be doing some work on moving repositories today and ensuring that what we've got deployed reflects those moves i've glenn has put together a set of zone files and um redirect configuration based on um data that i pulled off of the existing service and um the information that we had gathered at the tools transition plan he has those ready for me to review i plan to review them later today and um assuming we find no issues they'll be ready to turn on as soon as we have this bib xml service moved and what this means is that the tools.itf.org homepage is going to start redirecting to authors.ietf.org xml to our the xml rsc.tools.itf.org is going to start redirecting into author tools um other subsites of tools.ietf.org are going to redirect as according to that tools transition plan even though we have signaled this to the community for well over a year i expect that there will still be shock and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "surprise when the change happens um we'll just need to be ready to field the um the fallout when we when we go ahead and make make the cut over uh sorry i just yeah i put this as uh i was most uh not mostly but partly tongue-in-cheek in the in the chat but i do think that um some sort of persistent post that summarizes the changes the time would be um be a useful reference to point people to when the uh questions come up about what where did you move my cheese anything no this is what the tools transition plan is intended to be it's at github right okay uh yeah i'll think some more about that but um okay thanks so i just got a note from jay that he and mars are going to miss the call completely so one of the things for the data tracker that i mentioned before is um a change to the models so that we explicitly model who attended which session medico will tell us at the end of the session who attended they've already been telling giving us blue sheets which just have names instead or at least in addition to at the beginning we will start actually getting a foreign key relationship between session and person so that we could construct those blue sheets ourselves and then use this for nom com"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "calculations numcom eligibility calculations going forward in the process of putting this together and researching the the the functions for the new numcom eligibility calculations we discovered that there is a bit of a disconnect um in the code and in at least the current leadership's heads around what um counts so the rfcs are a little bit vague and we are going to be pushing on an edge case now and it's the leadership's issue to work this out with the community and figure out what we're going to do for eligibility calculations for this nom-com in particular the rough edge is whether or not simply paying for a meeting is enough to count as having attended the meeting we have a large number of people at ietf 111 which was fully online that registered paid but then attended no sessions um the current leadership is split on whether or not the rsc says what the rsc says or what you know whether or not that should count so i am anticipating that we will continue to use the current calculations um with the full understanding of you know the calculations that we had before with the understanding that um just paid was sufficient and that we'll end up with an rsc that clarifies and we can shift over to where we're whatever that rsc clarification um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "results in for for the rules so i was hoping to have lars here we don't have anyone from the isg on the calls i don't think correct me if i'm wrong yeah one of the things that um zdx security pointed out to us is that our um certs and configuration for our web services um allow the use of tls-1011 and i started to communic i started a conversation with the isg about whether or not we should turn that off and if we needed to tell anybody ahead of time i was hoping to get the final feedback on how that conversation went in the isg on this call i will follow up with eric and lars and find out what the isg thinks we need to do with respect to telling anyone or not i think it's pretty clear from the first part of the conversation that everybody on the isg is just fine with with it with it being turned off the only question comes around is how much warning do we give people i'll move on to zulu do you have any uh any stats from our logs how much use if there's any use yeah there is a small amount of use um most it's easiest to get that from looking at um cloudflare's dashboard right the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "it is not zero um but it's also um very small compared to um tls one two and above so could it be old bots or something say again could it be old uh web bots or something who knows i mean that that looking at the particular clients that negotiated it is not something that we have good insight into okay i'm just wondering it could be someone very loud that's all i'll suggest that we disable it only for data tracker login and that therefore it's just need only access and that there's no harm in it i wish there was somebody from the isg here um so we have an rsc that deprecates these things and tells people to quit using them that we we published as an ietf consensus document yeah i know okay so you know um it's a little more complicated than that rich like uploading a shepherd's right up or something like that can't do that without being logged into the data tracker i understand but it at any rate i i i the simple way is to turn it off yeah i agree i i understand okay um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "our zoop service is now fully deployed uh we haven't seen anybody complain about the deployment yet um anybody on the call has has seen complaints that i haven't please let me know medico has been looking into integrating the midco chat directly with zulup there are some design questions around how to use the api uh we engaged with the zoo community earlier today on getting a better story they pointed us to some dark corners of the documentation that we hadn't spotted before that looked fairly promising should be able to report in um a few days about whether or not this integration is going to be as easy as we anticipate there was an effort between the last tools call and this one to update the configuration of the working group mailing lists to include the global white list for those working groups it didn't have it configured we're also going to do a little bit of work with the secretariat to make it easier for them to periodically check this my suggestion is once a month um to make sure that the working group lists have have this list configured and we've identified the set of remaining lists that don't have the global white list configured to in there allow these non-members configuration and we'll be going through them manually one by one to determine whether or not they should and and adding adding it if they should"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "so these turn out to be things like the um teams for previous meetings the sisters list things like this right and we've okay we've got two other things here um jay initiated a survey for the tools workshops the intent was the survey would close at this call i was hoping jay could give us um a feel for what the person participation was and and early results i'll ask him to mail that to the tools discuss list when he's able instead we've also been working and making more progress and we have for quite some time on getting the point where wiki.ietf.org is something we expect the community to use um nick and glenn have worked so that the authorization configuration matches what is in the document that we have that talks about how we plan to use that wiki that documents currently a google document that um hasn't been widely advertised um and i'm asking we'll be having a conversation with jay a little bit later about when that document can be um more widely distributed and more people have a chance to to take a look at it the essence of it is that um we've set"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "things up to where um the wiki knows about your data tracker roles when you log in those data tracker roles give you different tiers of permissions inside the wikis working group chairs can do some things area directors can do some slightly more things for example and there's a rough schema of what how we expect the the resulting wiki to be laid out in the document and then ultimately we would talk about how we would migrate existing working group wikis into into this particular wiki there are some ongoing conversations the plan for quite some time has been that we will just move the important bits by manual labor volunteer labor um unimportant bits would get archived um my intent was to archive them in by making the track instances available as a docker image there's an ongoing conversation about whether or not an automated um conversion of the track wikis into a wiki js instance that could just be left up as an archival ins you know read-only instance makes sense i have concerns about the fidelity of these automated translations what we saw of the move of the track wiki's nt the github wikis doesn't leave me feeling comfortable that um we won't lose a great deal of information at the very least in things like the structure of tables um in in such a process"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:04",
    "text": "so the down side if you have a docker image that's live and we're not patching it and that's the problem but i think you're thinking that it'll just be a docker image i can pull and bring up and retrieve something out of it and then fill it again yeah docker image that you just run on your local machine you can interact with with your web browser that sounds fine and i guess the other suggestion i have is to do a a mirror of it as html and just stick that in a car file somewhere in some cases i don't care what the markup is i care what the output looks like but i don't think there's a lot i don't think there's a lot that anyone's going to miss after we i agree with you that it ten years from now someone will notice that something disrupts him looking into history but no one's gonna know until they actually look and go well that's wrong okay um [Music] that's what we had on our agenda we're now to the uh open microphone part of this anybody have any anything that they would like to discuss we've got 15 minutes left if we want to use it or i can give that back to you for the rest of your days so i'll just point out karsten had a question back in the tools discussion sorry tools.ietf.org movement um i guess i'm gonna prescribe uh david is there any day-to-day discussion of it that's happening somewhere like on cool disgust or something about the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "tools.iahf.org migration that this is someone go read what he what he wrote as well a day-to-day update um no let me try to explain what i was after here um there are some people who will have to to watch what's going on where should they look carson say that again i have to turn up my volume so there there are some people who need to know when things are happening and and what's going on so where should they look is there a single place where we can look tools discusses i'll send i will send mail when changes are made to tools thank you all right not hearing anything from anyone thank you for taking your time and i will see you at um i think we've got one yeah we've got one more of these before we're in philadelphia so we'll talk to you soon thank you you"
  }
]
