[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:24",
    "text": "Give it one more minute and we'll get started Okay I guess we'll go ahead and get started. So for those of you, hey everyone, thanks for coming. This is the DHEP Working Group. So I'll start from the beginning. This is Vancouver If you're in the wrong place, welcome anyway. Welcome to you this is the DHEP working group so I'll start from the beginning this is Vancouver if you're in the wrong place welcome anyway welcome to DHEP Bernie my co-chair as you can see is remote he's hanging out in New Hampshire I believe So he stayed up with us tonight, which is awesome Yeah, that's correct. Sweet Here's the Notewell. I know we're still early in the week. So you have seen this a million times, but if you're in the room, you are agreeing to this. Please take a look at it. If you've not seen it before, I see it you go read it. This is important things we want everybody to understand they're agreeing to this This includes, you know, have a little at it. If you've not seen it before, I suggest you go read it. This is important things we want everybody to understand they're agreeing to this. This includes, you know, heavily on the patent side, patent application, so just they're agreeing to this. This includes heavily on the patent side, patent application. So please make sure you take some time to read this if you've not seen it before and you understand it. Thanks Yep, notice a note well. Mediaco does blue sheets now Bernie and I are co-chairs Do we have a note taker Bernie? I saw you started a copy at McClellan"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "like Somebody else actually started that. I don't know who did. Yep Yep Do we have anyone willing to take notes for this? Yeah, Bernie is typing now So I think Bernie will take, Bernie, are you good recording every? for us? I'll try, yep. I mean, again, assistance is always welcome, especially when things get hot and heavy Oh, Tomok jumped in, too. He can take notes. Thank you. Okay, great Great, thank you. Okay, so, got a note taker Here's our agenda for today We're going to talk 8415 to internet standard we're gonna talk about dhcb4 over DHGPV6 relays and next step So it's pretty short today A couple of regular updates we have for you guys. We have a regular documents. We have two of them, currently that are working group documents We have Adder DHEP Adder notifications and that one I think is in yes it's approved right it's been approved, it's in RFC editor we're in the last stages we're we're we're good with it we just need to get it over the last pump so that's good On 8415, we're going to talk about in a minute. And then always we like to just list, there's a lot of interesting DHSU drafts. There's five of them I've put here I'm only four bullets. I'm not sure what I goofed, but there's a couple here you should go read if you're into dhcps are just relative drafts and let everybody know. They're not working group documents yet a couple of them are trying to be so we'll talk about those today and then there's just some other ones past presentations. There was a spring presentation about the DHP one there so that's still ongoing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "So these are just relevant documents to the working group feel free to read them at your own pleasure we just like to highlight them That's it for the administrative side So I think the next thing we're going to do is switch over to 8415 Okay, so this is for advancing DHGPV6 to Internet standard presentation. So a couple things here, just to remind everybody, we've motivation for advancing DHS to Internet standard. This is the next we've had this light up for a while. It's a milestone of this working group to move this from to an internet standard from the current status it's at and this has been ongoing so a couple things happen since the last IETF, which is good. We left it in working group last call a little bit longer than we intended, but we got some really good feedback, so I think it ended up working out for us Intentional or not, I think it worked out better So we published 05 so we just recently published that there are two things we did in there. One of them is we clarify the UDP ports. There were some questions that I've included a link to the mail archive if you're really interested in it There's been some confusion about what UDP ports people want to use and how to use them so we clarified it. I thought it ended up being really good text saying, hey, this is the key in it. There's been some confusion about what UDP ports people want to use and how to use them. So we clarified it. I thought it ended up being really good text saying, hey, this is the cases where you use it and how to do it So that got added in 05. And then the other thing we did with this, we had a sort of an oops We had some texts that was from the original 85 about IA address option only being in the IANA, which is not true it's it was added to adder notification and then previously to that it was in lease query. So we had it in two places that it didn't previously we've reused the option which made sense so we took on all that text in 05 So the good news there is that DHCP adder"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "is now good to go. That one's no longer viable 8415 and then lease query we patched as well. And those are the only two changes we made to this document at this point. So 05 is out there What we would like to do is we've already done working group last call. We want to do two weeks We want to ship this to the IE What we would like to do is we've already done working group last call. We want to do two weeks. We want to ship this to the IESG. Wow, it's already been a long week apparently. We want to send it to them in two weeks So this is kind of our last comments If anyone has any last comments, please feel free to come up to the mic now or, yeah, come up to the mic please if you have any more comments about this document or any more things. We kind of want to close this we've let this run and probably an IETF too long so we want to try to close this gap So does anyone have any comments? they'd like to make Okay, great. No one got up. So we're going to say this. So I'll send an email out to the list but we'll send this to the plan will be in two weeks to send this off and start getting it through the process Suresh has nicely agreed in previous IETFs. Are you still good, Suresh, to document chair? Okay, Suresh is nodding his head at me So I think we're good All right, so that's it for this then I don't think we have Bernie, did you? have anything else you wanted to add to that? No, I think we're in good shape there We're good to go and I'd like to see it get done Okay, awesome All right, so then we're going to move to our next presentation Claudio, I know you're remote and in Italy, and it's a very late, so we'll try to get you set up Hello, here I am"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "And my presentation is about a work that we have started at IETF 180 and then it has proceeded to during the time we get got some contribution and now we have moved into another step so let me thank first for all IETF community for having helped us solving what was a problem and now it is a solution so let me really take this chance for, say, thank you for all the people who have given us suggestion and help us solving a real problem I need to make a quick recall from, yes, a place switch to slide number two Tim. matthew quick, the speed from, yes, please switch to slide number to Tim. matthew quick description of the problem is that in the radio the radio access network was not really a network until a new requirement. So we had a configuration where we had a simple connection one to end to n. So we had one device connected to a number n of radio and we had no problem in understanding what radio was connected to both of the the one device connected to a number N of radio and we had no problem in understanding what radio was connected to what of the plug of this device but since there is a new requirement now from mainly driven from the Open Run organization that the relation between the radio and the controlling unit is n-2m now and then we have a network in between This is challenge"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "and it's not the normal way the network grow up because the communication between those devices is much more complex and it's not IP-based. It is also we also have IP, but we don't have IP only. So actually we get, we got the problem of properly configuring the radio with information that come from the top topology. So we have started digging in what is possible to do with the topology This solution exists for IPV6 using DHCPV6, but the solution does not exist with the HCP version legacy version 4, because the relay agent, the layer 2 relay agent, there are no layer to relay agent with capable of transporting the old topology to the server here but really again thank to ATF suggesting how to read the various description we have found out that we have a way for encapsulating the HCP V4 into the HCP V6 So actually if you go directly into slide number five then it's number five So, have the ACPV4 over the ACPVC solves the problem The only new challenge that is remaining in our use cases that implement the ACPV4 over the ACPV6 at the client is out of control for us and for mainly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "for the deployment of this new configuration of the network because of interoperability, because the client is built up by a large variety of vendor and configuration and that is and then we are also in a another type, say, political configuration because the transport network may be different from the run so we have one organization providing the transport so administering the switch and another organization administering the radio and the servers, so it may be complex so since we have already a solution for the HCP v6, we would like to have to use exactly the same solution for the legacy DHCP so what we would need here is the possibility of having the encapsulation DHC before over the ACP in the relay agent rather than having in the client. So not having this option as mandatory, but I rather than having in the client. So not having this option as mandatory, but as an option, but actually implementing that part in the relay agent so if you if you into slide number seven, this is what we slide number seven, I mean, yeah, this is what we would like to have as a possibility"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "From a normative part, it is only since the ACP over the ACPV6 is already a RFC, so there is nothing to be added It works all the procedure all the encapsulation, the B BIT, the data structure, it's already, we define it and stated pretty well how need procedure, all the encapsulation, the BIT, the data structure, it's already, we define it and stated pretty well how it needs to be done I can also say that we as Erickson organization will do that anyhow in our switch. So this is a solution that we will use in the real network when doing the deployment we since network is interoperability, we would like to have the description or having the adoption of our draft that describes this type of deployment of DSPVV4 over DCVC at the relay agent for permitting the interoperability and for permitting for this new configuration to be a standard I have received, we have received a number of comments to the existing draft that is a lot focused on the radio use case and act actually I understand that having us specific use case is in a way misleading and there are also has been pointed out that there is another RFC that is describing how about the problem of the topology It's the RFC 69C"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "that describes this part So we may refer to that RFC describes this part so we may refer to that rfcc and fully remove the use case from the radio on that. So actually what we ask is to get comments and eventually proceeding with data adoption. I have nothing very much too hard to this presentation So if we can, we can directly move in the question and answer part Thank you for listening to me OK, we got some people lined up. So go ahead, baby lamparter. The draft is not overly specific yet on what exactly the relay agent is supposed to do In the diagram, you have a legacy DHSP server on the right-hand side of the network are you intending to support this decapsulation? and then have a legacy IPv4? the HTTP server or is that just a misunderstanding? in the diagram? It is a mis- misunderstanding. It's I the HTTP server, or is that just a misunderstanding in the diagram? It is a misunderstanding. It's, I, I was making this diagram two too long ago actually yes but the is the acp server that complies to the HCP before the HCPV6. So it is either a monolithic implementation that supports both or it is an implementation that does the capsulation and forwards to the HCP server. But nothing new related to what exists already and it is standardized Thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "I said, all this stuff about radio network will be removed from the draft and then we will make reference to the RFC 69 69 for the topology discovery as it is already mentioned there Yeah, thanks for it It is actually a is already mentioned there yeah thanks for it is actually it is actually a PD that four over six was specified only at the client and not not being given the possibility to be implemented at the relay agent In our specific case, the have a mixed usage of the network, so we have both layer 3 and layer 2 two that are switched there so that we need to have a relay agent working on layer two and this does not exist for the HCP V4, but it exists for V6 And this DCP before over the ACP V6 actually is a so solution that helps and it does not need any further standardization David Lombarder again, just as a positive comment, as someone who probably will implement the I don't see a particular problem, seems fine Oh, thank you Thank you. I want to just mention something. This is Bernie Volt I think it was Mohammed that on the list had made some comment about referencing that 79, text and that actually also triggered some also triggered something in me to, you know, one of the things you may need"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "to look at is right that the so when the client is using broadcast traffic or, you know, because that's how it communicates in before to the relay agent you're okay but you may have to think about the case of when it is Unicat a renewal right i mean i think if if the server is reachable, the ultimate DHCP servers reachable, with whatever adverse the client has, you're okay But if it's not, that may be an issue because I'm not sure you know, the IP routing infrastructure will provide there. So it may be something you need to look at. It's a known problem already, and we have like server ID override features and things like that that are used in some other networks where we don't want the renewal to be sent to the server directly but instead wanted to go to the relay agent Yeah, yeah. Thank you, Bernie. You find that actually one of the point that we need to specify better, and this, when you have this uh implementation at the relay agent that means that it is actually the relay agent responsibility to avoid all this fuss and make this TACPV for over six on and not distributing anything else Actually, it is the relay agent that needs to parse the request and eventually drop what is dangerous for the configuration. Yeah, that will needs to parse the request and eventually drop what is dangerous for the configuration. Yet that we will write about on the new version of the draft. Thank you very much for the comment Okay, sounds good. Yeah, when you have a new version of the draft, I think it'd be very interesting to take a look at it you know, the group can comment I mean, I think in the long-"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "run, this work is probably interesting to the work group so I think you know it is something that we may look to adopt, but maybe you want to do one or two more revs of the drive first to improve the you know, the draft and stuff and make it a little bit more detailed before we consider the adoption question Thank you very much for the comment and I am committed we, the team, because we are a team we are committed to make improvement of the draft and tuning that in the direction driven by the comments from the community. Thank you again Okay. Yeah, I think that's the right next step, Bernie you know we'll get a couple of revisions Claudio from you guys, and then we can talk about adopting this. I agree with Bernie. I think it's definitely within our charter and we could adopt this, so that's good. Yes Suresh. Go ahead. Thanks. Thanks, Bernie. Thanks, Tim So if you have the pending comments address, like, you know, what is kind of delaying adoption at that point, right? Like, you know, if we can kind of get it all in the next revision, right? Is it okay? to kind of go for adoption at that point? Yeah, I mean, I definitely think that the RAND stuff's got to be removed. I think we talked about, there was mainly a think we could probably go after the next we could go for a call to adoption. I think the RAND stuff, like, I kind of was like wanted to add that RAN stuff because there's a lot there was mailing us. I think we could probably go after the next, we could go for a call to adoption. I think the RAND stuff, like, I kind of was, like, wanted to add that RAN stuff, because there was the last meeting when this was presented, like somebody actually asked for that context on why you want to do that right and that's why the rant stuff is there, because somebody asked for it. So if you can take it out but if it's confusing, but there's kind of a justification for the use case because it at least for me it made clear why this was an issue right like there's like some set of notes that cannot be updated and that's kind of getting lost I'm sure it's other use cases but it is like probably just keep it somewhere I don't mind taking it out but I think it's it was somebody had that issue like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "yeah I know and what's funny is it then it causes more confusion afterwards. So I, that's kind of where I landed on this is yeah, I was I totally agree last time that this was one of the things people wanted to change. But then it seems to cause more confusion on the mailing list. So I think that's the general consensus but you know I'm not I do not have a strong opinion on this and I don't think the working group does so I think you can make your best judgment. Like taking it all is fine. But I think like the reason, like we kind of ended up on this solution rather than the previous like DHCPV for L2RA kind of solution was that this has got a clear exit path for reset right? Like so the the all the infrastructure is V6 and when this V4 things go away we can kind of stick in a V6 only without keeping additional legacy V4 infrastructure is the in interesting point. So thanks really and we'll try to get it things go away, we can kind of stick in a V6 only without keeping additional legacy V4 infrastructure is the interesting point. So thanks really, and we'll try to get this updated as soon as possible, Bunny and Tim thanks thanks yeah I'm yeah Kuluman another course um i also wanted to say I would actually propose to move it into the appendix because I totally understand that like it might be confusing if we have it in the main document, it sounds like this is like specific to this use case, which is not the case it's like a more general mechanism but having the motivation clear and making clear why we design it in this way because we have this use case, I think it's so useful. So to put it in the appendix so we don't like if the question comes up again we don't that's to like wrap out in old draft it seems to be an excellent idea from my seat, for sure. Bernie, you're up yeah that's what I was going to suggest is for now let's move it move the RAND stuff into an appendix We can always decide later on, either to keep it or to jettison it if we don't you know, think it adds sufficient value But I would agree. That's the best thing to do is to move it out to an appendix and focus on the it if we don't, you know, think it adds sufficient value. But I would, I would agree. That's the best thing to do is to move it out to an appendix and focus on, you know, the main core the material, which is how you use this and less on the specific use case case"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "Michael, you're up. michael richardson Mike, sorry, I'm late I didn't ever think I commented on it I never thought it should be removed. I just didn't understand it. That didn't mean I thought that it should be removed or even, I mean, put it in appendix if you like, but all I'm saying, is that it sounded like there was a use case there that was well thought out and was motivating things I just didn't understand it. Okay and i have a bit more understanding of it from car conversations that mailing us whatever, but that doesn't mean the text is great yet but I think you should leave it in. I just think you probably just need to either delete a sentence or add a sentence or move a comment or I don't know what, but, you know I mean, maybe it like you heard that you know this If you, if I enter understood the, the, the use case quick enough to propose text, then I, yeah, maybe Yeah, I think we're coming to it Let's keep it to the appendix. I think that'll solve everyone's problem and we'll be good Any last comments on this draft? Okay, sweet This was it for the actual scheduled stuff so i think the only other things we have is just kind of doing a recap on this really quick. So today, I think the two things we're going to have is 8415 biz is we're going to ship that off. You have a two weeks if you have deep thoughts you want to give about it please, you've got a couple weeks here. We're going to give you a week after the idea because I know everybody loves having a lot of work the week after the IETF. So we're going to give you a little bit longer Take a look, and then we'll ship that one off. And then we're going to get an update for the draft we just had presented I don't think there's any other documents out there looking to get adopted by us at the moment, but that doesn't mean there won't be in the future So I think that's everything. Bernie, did I miss?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "everything? Nope, that was it, yep oh Eric wants Yep, RAD is walking up So, Eric, being the responsibility for this DHE group. So the plan was to close the HC after the BIS document was published. Looks like we are keeping more and more work coming, so which is good so the plan is no more to close the working group but keep it away for capital of IETF and then we will see. Okay so yeah that are you clucked in your hand because i want to close it or want to stay open right? Yeah, we are the longest running work group I think now so we have that going for us David Lam Potter we just determined this IETF that we need a new option to get a question IPV6 next stops for IPV4 routes in the HTTP. And please don't close this working group in front of me Yeah, no, I think that's what we're finding is people are finding use cases as becomes more prevalent. So yeah, we're going to keep it around we're not going to close it right away so if you do have your your wonderful DHEP ideas, feel free to pitch them Yeah. Hi, I'm Josh cohen. Since you're finished with your agenda item I thought I might ask a few questions So I'm one of the authors of WPAD, the Web Proxy Auto Discovery for HTTP. Anyone familiar with? that? Vaguely, yeah. Yeah, so I did that 25 years ago back in the one one days, and that was, you know, before DHDP was even deployed or widely deployed at least yeah so you know one of the after uh security, vulnerability, advisory after, you know, over the years it's come time to sort of have it discussion about what to do about that. And so I'm one alternative is just to get rid of it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "and other just to narrow it down um and so that means you know, obviously getting rid of some of the deprecated discovery mechanisms. And one of them is, DHCP, which is currently one of the ones that's used. And so I had to couple questions in terms of the current state of DHCP you're asking about before I'm assuming is what you're you're asking about the current status of what goes, so we're charted to do V4 stuff we can if you want to make updates to previous things we're open for business for those things We obviously deal with options, but we obviously mostly today focus on B6 options Not that we couldn't put out something. Bernie, we're allowed to talk about, I think we're allowed to change we still we can change V4 stuff right well i think we'd like to hear what those issues are and see and then you know it like everything um you know, draft speak loudest And then we, you know, assuming Eric is okay with, would us adopt the work and the working group's okay with it, then we can move forward Okay, well, I think that is probably pretty much to say to go that far but, so are we allowed to talk about B6 stuff? You can talk about V4 or V6 stuff in this form We have extra time and, you know. All right, great, great so um you know the big issue is security, which is the way tommy pauly would describe it as the lack of a root trust right which is that you can you know, you can spoof the HTTP server and then basically check the web browser into picking up a proxy and get a man in the middle attack, although that's a lot less I think, feasible or common than some of the other ways that it works The HTTP seems to be better than the DNS solution So my question is, you know,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "one, you know, in the WP draft, we make an assertion that option code i think it's two five two is the word WPath the URL for the PAC file goes, although we never followed through it know, in the W-pad draft, we make an assertion that option code. I think it's 252, or 254, is where W-pad, the URL for the PAC file goes, although we never followed through and registered it with Ianna all choice Well, that is true I think it was you know, when we did it, we thought, okay, we're gonna to, this is short-term solution, and we're going to do this better and we just never got around to it, and the short-term solution became the long-term solution So I think the first question is in terms of, you know, where DHCP, either V4, B6, or both are with respect to better security in terms of possibly authenticating or something or to avoid those kinds of spoofing attacks and the other is our V6 and V6 and V options the same in terms of the code? they use or are those different? and are there any constraints in terms of what you can put in the value of those options? Barney, you want to take this one? Sure, yeah. I mean, the number space for V4 and V6 options is completely separate and different It's the same for messages and everything You know, there's a few cases like you're raising the security or authentication issues There are few cases where, you know, we do use the same table of sort of sub-values as was used in V4 just because it made sense to only have sort of one set of those. But before I options are completely different than V6 there's, you know, the option space is different The formatting is often, hopefully, in V6 cleaner now because we learned our lesson from some of the messes in before"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "The formatting is often, hopefully, in V6 cleaner now, because we learned our lessons from some of the messes in V4 and things like that. But yet, I mean, security you know, just to touch on security, there was a lot of work done on that for a number of years, but it a very difficult problem to solve, you know, to try to secure or to authenticate the, DCP transaction okay so yeah it's a hard problem that remains not really well solved. And that's not unique to DGP. Right, yeah. Yeah this problem is not unique. People do have setups and networks, right, where they have things like DHP guard or other mechanisms to prevent rogue servers from appearing, right? Which is a different problem than authenticating the actual DHP trap setups and networks, right, where they have things like DHUP guard or other mechanisms to prevent rogue servers from appearing, right, which is a different problem than authenticating the actual DHCP traffic. But I think the well-known issue is making sure that there aren't rogue DHUP servers. Most networks have the ability to solve that problem authenticating the dhup messages is another issue in itself. What did you call? the solution to prevent the DHCP? guard? Yeah, that's the DHEP guard is what it's called. And so that's where you prevent servers that aren't on certain ports from sending error answering DHEP. Yeah, it's like Savi is another one of the documents that's around that whole architecture of you know monitoring uh this is for like switches and routers to monitor what addresses are provided by authoritative DCP servers or whatever so that they can restrict traffic Okay so that was Guard and what was the second one? Savi, how do you spell that? S-A-V-I. S-A-V-I. S-A-V-I. Okay thank you. Yeah, and there's also, you know, the 802.11 as well that, you know, the Ethernet port you plug into or whatever, authenticating that at that lower level that you could use"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "Okay, we had a walk on topic. Great Okay, so I think we're going to conclude the meeting. We talked about the next steps. I want to thank everybody for coming today and hopefully we'll see you guys in the future. Thanks, everybody All right, thank you, Tim. Thank you, everybody Thanks, Eric. Thank you And thanks Claudio for presenting from Italy to in the morning. Get some sleep All right, take care Actually, I'm in the moonshine now. Yep, it is it was like full moon I think yesterday or something so it is pretty yeah yeah and 36 degrees actually here thank you bye bye So you can't go again is my whole act it's done done"
  }
]
