[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:14",
    "text": "nobody wants to give me back up i'll back you up uh as uh when i'm not talking well by my clock it's time so why don't we get going who wants to do the welcome i'll do that okay welcome to the suit working group um we are the second session of this virtual itf welcome and uh want to remind everyone about the note well basically make sure you're aware of your rights and responsibilities here before you contribute either in writing or verbally next slide please i want to remind everybody about the itf code of conduct that's available in rfc 7154 basically please be respectful and courteous at all times remember we're participating in personally that means no personal attacks and such and remember that we're here to devise solutions that work in the global internet which means that we need to consider the diversity and the operational environments"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "that are available and not just one one way that one person uses the internet and also be prepared to contribute in the ongoing discussions so thank you next slide so we just took care of note takers and jabber room watcher thank you very much the blue sheets will be automatically created by you logging into the medico session next slide so this is the agenda or at least the first slide of the agenda um put the second one up and then ask are there any um bashes we just heard from brendan that his time went to the documents on the first slide so we're basically uh have very little to say on items five and six okay let's go back to the previous slide yeah the trust domains and yeah right basically uh that's correct the uh earlier item got divided up uh into multiple documents and we'll talk about why um but let's talk about the status of the working group recharter uh we had a long pause uh sorry the chairs probably should have nudged that sooner after coming to some text then we put together some milestones and sent those to roman roman has in turn [Music] updated that to the data tracker and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "had some minor discussions about some word changes go ahead roman hi everyone uh yeah i just wanted to check it i think we are quite uh quite at the cusp of being done here uh thanks for kind of the the new milestones everything's dropped in my only remaining question before i would hit the send button is what about a milestone on the order of what i just put in chat which says let's put a marker for when we coordinate with rats on where the document goes i feel like given the dynamic in the group it would be helpful if we put a pin in it to make sure it doesn't get away from us well i i think i said in email i don't think that's going to get away with us in the sense that right now it looks like uh rats is going to drive that document and so as long as we coordinate with them we should leave the milestone to them was my thought dave do you have any thoughts we got two daves so i don't know which ones either one who has a view uh i i'm okay either way i think this is what's on here right now that uh roman was referring to you can see this bill is from uh next month uh out for one year with other things there so i just wanted to call that up on the screen there um and i think roman you're proposing that we have one that is uh a milestone for deciding um where things go is that did i get that right yeah that's exactly right because i guess my point is if it's undecided we should have a milestone if it's actually going to rats then we should probably update the core charter text which seems to suggest that it's ambiguous right you know i i agree it just it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "looks like it's going to rats right now but the final decision i don't think has been made um so shall we say by march what what's what do folks think is reasonable um maybe uh i know there's a couple other rats people on here between uh michael and folks but if there's any objections to that speak up what actions do we need to take in order to make this decision well last ietf we had a discussion about a particular document and we said where should that go and we had a discussion in both suit and in rats about where that should go and uh as at the end of last iatf the um there were two parts of the discussion one was some general stuff and one that were suit specific claims and the real discussion we're having here is about the suit specific claims okay and so our suit specific claims is that's the the rat's profile for suit does that go in this in the uh rats working group with a cert working group that's the decision we're talking about right hank go ahead so so he either from my management uh chaos is to do that in rats of course but if there is a feasible reason um that we can we should split it i'm i'm willing to listen um but but for for my personal convenience i think keeping it in one place would be nice if that rats are not not against that no i i think that the rats is the right home personally uh that's just my thoughts um and could be convinced otherwise but that we want to make sure this group reviews it i think is where we're landing uh michael"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:05",
    "text": "so i'm just concerned that we think we feel like we had a conversation last time and um like that what we actually just need to have is a a 20-minute virtual interim um between now and march uh probably before christmas where we just make sure that all the people are doing and have a longer conversation like actually and michael you're suggesting a combined meeting between rats and suit to discuss this draft yeah i mean it doesn't have to you know it doesn't have to be three hours long right just sure has to happen right good suggestion um we'll coordinate with the rats chairs and figure out how to make that happen i see brandon's also in queue brendan this seems to me like a bit of a bellwether for what rats is going to look like going forwards does rats want to deal with every single other thing specific set of claims or does rats want that to land in the individual working groups this ultimately as near as i can tell is more of an iana decision than anything else we have to register claim sets so i'm a little bit confused as to why we're having this discussion at all i thought it was reasonably clear that rats set up the base uh you know draft and the rest of its iana registrations i don't understand what we're doing here uh there's a suit profile and a individual submission right now that's a candidate for that type of work um is a draft burkholz suit claims and the suit clean the suit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "specific stuff is basically section 3.2 is an example of something that could be used to meet this given that this is individual summation we can't say this is ietf and stuff but we're talking about the part that's highlighted here on the screen is a candidate for that and the question is whether this type of information would be in suit or unrest answer your question brendan when the rats working group was first chartered there was this discussion and an analogy was given to things like how the dhcp or jc working group works where they form the base but profiles are done on other working groups with uh dhc being the reviewer of them but they don't do all the options right and so rats could be the same thing and that's the argument for why this might be done in the seat working group and why there would be a charter milestone that's at least a placeholder for the decision if not the actual work as to whether a suit profile and it's uh any claims specific to the use of suit and the applicability and security considerations around them would be in a document right and so this is an example of a document just for everybody else here a lot of people have looked at this but if you haven't then this is a placeholder for uh something that could meet that work and in this example you can see its use of say uh suit records is one type of thing that could be in claims there could be claims about suit records and not the suit records themselves but the point is that's the actual work that we're not trying to have here the question is which charter does it belong in and to your point brenda there's a valid argument that says that it could belong in suit with rat's review okay and so that's the discussion so yeah there are i have to admit there are less a small amount but but then very universal claims here and i think just sorting that out is the problem here it's not it's not about the registry it's not about the uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "actual um maybe not even about the actual working group but it's it's about understanding what these claims claims mean and and and what scope they have and and then i think the rest is just as easy easy yeah there was a discussion for those who were in the uh rats working group earlier i raised this at the mic because there's some of the parts of this top part in a hank's document that has now been obsoleted by recent additions to the eat document and so an example that i called out in the meeting is this one right here there's now a this is pulled into the document itself other things that are in here are things that um might be in rats because they're generic not specific to suit and then other ones are specific to suit and so the point is this document right here has a mix of some things that are suite-specific and some that are not and it could be that the non-suit specific ones go into rats and suit specific ones go into suit uh but that's kind of the ongoing discussion so and it sounds like that might be the topic of discussion if we have this interim um although i think the the the topic of the interim was about specifically about the suit specific things because my hope is that the non-suit specific stuff could be worked out long before an interim if not uh some of those would be worked out by friday based on the rest meeting discussion um of this week meaning by the end of the ietf week here but the suit specific ones i think having an interim would be uh helpful for because regardless of which one it's in we want review from both groups and having that be a topic even if it's a short interim meeting that would be very useful so i agree with that suggestion as a is there any chance to get the um the philosophical discussion about where these extensions should be worked is there any chance that that will get resolved in the rats meeting later this week no i don't think so well that's my opinion than all those other rats people on here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "but that's because here the question is about the suit profile my belief is is this my personal belief is aligned with i think what brennan said which is the rats working group would probably prefer that profiles be done in the working group the profile is for in other words they would probably kick the suit specific stuff over a suit but that's me trying to predict what they would say okay yeah and then there's a question of timing and i think the session is really full yeah so it sounds like some coordination is going to be necessary to move forward yeah but i think to answer roman's question my opinion is yes i think it's fine to put in a milestone that says make a decision by march with the wording that roman posted in chat uh awesome so i will put that in as a milestone and then i will submit it for the isg for for kind of for initial review so we can keep things moving thanks for everyone's help here thanks robin finished the uh working group recharter summary um i don't we don't have slides for the hackathon but is there somebody who wants to say something about that how that went and what we learned uh hi uh this is honest again um yeah we had um i gave a presentation at the end of the hackathon week which can be looked up and i will share the link in the chat window don't have that ready don't want to go through that slide deck but in a nutshell we had a number of folks showing up we uh emmanuel organized several presentations which uh um look at the identity list but uh some of you attended uh for sure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "those were good presentations um they have been recorded per request so they are up there but also share the link slides are available the purpose of the presentations was to give people a quick introduction into some of the tools and the code um uh on riot and the extensions uh made for suit and uh point us to uh the code that brenton had been working on et cetera et cetera uh so that was that was pretty good um we had some hacking events as well on different fronts so it was a little kept all over the place with regards to activities um the links to the code are also in the slide deck um i still owe a couple of folks hardware unfortunately that the ordering process was a little bit difficult so hold your breath and uh will will work out in the end um [Music] i also noticed uh and i think that's the lesson learned is like it's uh getting diff or more and more difficult for people to really sort of do these hackathons uh or in general these online events because there's so many concurrent activities going on so you have to be extremely um disciplined to actually follow things through and but i'm still hoping either that we switch over to face-to-face uh hackathons again um or that we um sort of sort of become very creative in organizing those uh given the time zone differences and all the other problems so yeah but in if any one of you has uh interest to look at the code and or have some questions on on the presentations or anything else um just drop me an email or or emmanuel in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "this case as well he since he has been helping to organize uh the this hackathon event um on suit and deep and etc um i i'm i'm sure we can help hey honestly could you provide a link to the slides yes um uh give me a second to look it up sure thanks okay were you ready to move on to the next presentation seeing any questions so let's go to uh brandon uh hi so um i guess next slide please uh you're also invited to turn on your camera if you like oh yeah i can do that can't i i have terrible wi-fi at my house so this is a uh a strange uh and and new experience that i can actually use video again um okay so uh the key changes uh for for suit manifest 16 are essentially what we discussed last time in ietf 111 the the most important thing that's changed is that we have broken the manifest document apart into four or theoretically five different drafts uh the fifth draft i'll mention briefly later on what it would be if it existed but it doesn't exist [Music] so that's that's the primary bit of the work uh there's also uh two minor changes that were added in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "uh the integrated element keys so that would apply to integrated payloads and integrated dependencies those are both uh have minor changes i'll get to that in a minute and then there's the uri definition and that's had a minor change as well next slide please so uh what is covered in the core document now is the authentication basic flow control so the try each and multiple components mechanisms parameter setting but only override parameters and the reason for that is that set parameters should not be necessary unless you have multiple manifests and this doesn't cover multiple manifests severable members so that's the elements being taken out of the manifest and placed in the manifest envelope and finally the text description those are essentially what's covered by the current core specification next slide please well you can see here that we made an effort to ensure that the core specification is simple because here's the list of what's not covered we don't have delegation so that will mean that any form of key delegation has to happen out of band or using the uh the trust domain specification similarly dependency manifests are covered in trust domains and multiple suit processors are covered in trust domains the uh the multiple suit processors just as a reminder oh no that that'll come up in a later presentation i'll leave that for now uh payload transforms are the one thing that doesn't have a uh a dedicated document we do have one for encrypted firmware but we don't have one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "for any form of compression um we do the the conditions for managing updates and directives and metadata for managing updates are in the separate update management specification or individual draft i mean so that's uh that those are up and coming but they are not covered in the core specification anymore so those things are no longer right in the core which will hopefully simplify it substantially next slide please uh the integrated element keys so i mentioned i alluded to this earlier but the the idea here was that the original specification had a somewhat cumbersome mechanism for referring to integrated elements so if you had an integrated payload you had to use a fragment only reference uri and that fragment only reference had to be a number and that number had to convert to a specific range of integer and that on doing it that on uh constrained devices seemed uh like it was more cumbersome than necessary so this change says that instead uh of doing that it will be direct uh text string matching so you have a text string key for your integrated element which guarantees that it won't collide with any future extensions and that text string uh will be identical to the text string reference that's placed in the uri field so the the one additional thing that this enables which is hopefully useful is that a an intermediary can pre-fetch a payload and embed it in the manifest envelope and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "then as long as a device knows to start by checking the the manifest envelope for the appropriate text string and then perform a remote fetch then uh precaching can be done in a relatively straightforward way next slide please this is a simple change previously the manifest specification referred to uris now it makes it explicit that that's a uri reference and it's not strictly necessary to have the fully qualified domain name etc next slide please so we have a few open issues at ietf 111 we discussed the uh need for more more information on implementation overhead for hierarchical hash based signatures one of the pieces of information was verification time and thanks to the work done by emmanuel's group we know that the verification time is roughly on the order of one third of an ecdsi verification and it's slightly longer than an ed dsa verification and we don't really know why this is yet as far as i know but i would one of the possibilities is that libraries are frequently optimized for performing one long hash rather than many small hashes so it remains to be seen what happens if we have more optimized digest libraries that are targeted specifically at hss lms and can handle doing lots of small digests so just as a summary the choice for a mandatory to implement signature algorithm appears to be between ecdsa and hss lms uh the pro the single biggest problem"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "with ecdsa is that it's not quantum resistant the uh benefits it has are mature or well primarily the maturity of the tooling um the long verification time obviously not a benefit um for hss lms the uh the biggest detractors it has are probably that it's got relatively immature tooling um it itself is not immature just the tooling the private keys require ongoing maintenance which which essentially means that after each signature the private key needs to be updated and there's only a fixed number of signatures possible and signature sizes are at least a kilobyte that's in fact this thing is 1280 bytes is the bare minimum so uh that's essentially the trade-off that we have to decide on um if we're going to have only a single mandatory to implement a signature algorithm next slide please um so we need to also discuss what we're going to do for optional to implement algorithms um rsa has been requested but um i think that we should be very careful about permitting that given some of the research that's going on in that area there's also a question as to whether we should have failover options for digest algorithms uh particularly where boot loaders are concerned this becomes a really big question about whether we can actually afford to have any crypto agility so i'm looking for advice or or input or recommendations on the topic of crypto agility and constrained devices um so that's uh that's a an open question um if that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "anything that we can if there's any advice we have there and i think that is it is there another slide i think we want to open it for a discussion here i guess russia and q go ahead so um a good bit of our crypto agility comes from just using the cose constructs the registries already exist um but we do need to have mandatory implements i think the may implements are anything else that's registered so my concern with that approach is that that works really well in the non-constrained environments where updates are straightforward but when we look at the constrained environment where there are certain uh parts of the of the device that simply can't be updated like you know wrong boot loaders or um or early stage processes uh we really need to be careful about what gets mandated and i think we've had some discussions with uh with on the subject of that with mcu boot in the past as well so sure i i agree with all of that but i think that's a constraint that is outside the protocol and i don't know how we what we would put in the protocol to address that but dave's in queue go ahead well i have a question and i don't know whether the question will help or not and it's not a preference it's actually a question um because there's a couple things that we could do uh but when we're talking about mandatory to implement let's just go back a slide because this is the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "mandatory to implement question uh on this one because the ones are talking about optional implements um so one way there's a couple different approaches you can take with doing uh mti because you have to say it's metroid implement for whom right because in the suit there's at least two at least two roles arguably more right there's the manifest author and there's the manifest uh consumer and maybe there's a manifest intermediary depending on whether you count that you count that as opaque is that is that suit enlightened in any way whether there's a third role or not maybe depends okay and so mandatory to implement for whom right so for some classes of protocol you say you can say that the same thing is mandatory to implement on both ends right um and for other examples is where you have multiple possibilities on one end uh sorry notice pick one on one end and multiple that are uh collectively mandatory to implement on the other end and so for example and again this is not a recommendation this is part of the question you could say that both of these are mandatory to implement on authoring sides and the consuming side gets to pick one or some other variation right i'm saying as long as you can guarantee that that author and a uh a parser can talk to each other there's multiple ways to accomplish that right and so the question the working group is do we want to pick one for all roles or do we want to allow different roles to have different ways of phrasing the question in other words multiple possibilities versus multiple required mandatory implement and so which way do we want to frame the question is the question that i have to the working group so i bring that up only because of brennan's last point about constrained devices right if you said well some constrained devices could only do you know ecdsa because they're immediate they need mature tooling other constrained devices might only be able to do the other one because the verification time is lighter or whatever is that a blocker to make them be mandatory to implement on a per use case basis and say authors have to be capable of doing either of them there's just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "different ways to skin it right which way do we want to craft the requirement is the question so strange implementations i don't know if uh like david brown or anybody has a particular opinion on this one i suspect that's the way we have to do it it's that we have to specify that the author has a list of mandatory to implement algorithms but that the recipient gets to pick one walter mark go ahead david brown the comment i would make is probably the same as it was at 111 that it i just fear that picking something is mandatory to implement is going to mean we're going to end up with a lot of non-compliant implementations and the way mcu boot works is you pick at compile time what implementations you have available in a given build and there's a lot of really resource constraint like where we try to get the bootloader to fit into 16 kilobytes and it's going to be pretty hard to pick more than one algorithm and if the one somebody wants isn't one that we've picked as mandatory it's i mean they're not going to be able to pick the other one so i don't know what that means as far as compliance or you know what what we're trying to say by saying it's mandatory i i think that the idea here is that we we're trying to set the target for interoperability i mean it seems like on you know david based on your your comment that we're either going to end up with non-compliant solutions or non-interoperable solutions or both um you know based on some of the resource"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "constraints i think what we're trying to accomplish through this is at least trying to define a baseline for interoperability which i think is the best that we can do okay mike um so i could see david's point with me because he's building a library which is linked and uh probably to a defender who's indicated in a street bomb uh assuming this was the manufacturer uh not uh someone who operates the network um they're gonna put the algorithm that trust anchors into the right for because you can also keep it so you can argue a lot about what is the mandatory to implement from uh what we would like to see out there what we'd like to recommend but uh trust banker is not there then it doesn't matter and that that's within the ability of the organization who built the device to defy uh and coordinate without our health our health so i think strongly that we should say um uh pathway signatures should be the mandatory implement in our document um and there where very well may be non-compliant implementations out there for a while and that uh perhaps what will push this you know commit for tooling forward um and i don't see another way and i don't really see any i don't think you're doing any other buddy was not great but i think i understood your main point to be an argument that if that we should make hss lms be the mandatory one i think that was the bottom line after uh some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "rationale in there if i got that wrong please post in the chat um akira yeah i just it's uh for the mandatory or requirement anything goes into suit it's going to be mandatory automatically for the tip and if it is going to have any mandatory uh required um algorithm it's it's automatically going to be in the requirement for the tip so uh i prefer uh suit keep eat not selecting um different mandatory uh orgasm yeah that that's all i guess i have one question one question we we had a discussion previously about how we specify um capability reporting and i forgive me i don't actually recall no i have not submitted a draft on capability reporting um but that is something that i think we should probably do um does this discussion of mandatory to implement um become irrelevant if we specify a capability reporting system can we just get away from worrying about it at all so it's an interesting question because you know you're specifying a manifest to do something right and the thing that you're going to do like install code and you can't have code that's going to work on arbitrary numbers of things right so your suit manifest is actually crafted for a particular class of system right and so you got to have that knowledge or you couldn't have crafted that in other words at least has to be internally consistent right if the type of system that could run the binary that you're referencing is the one that has the algorithm that you know of and you and you can uh and as the author you can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "correlate that information then you're crafting an internally consistent suit manifest and so whether it becomes irrelevant i don't know i think the real requirement is that you can craft a suit manifest it's consistent with the type of entity that could actually run the thing being expressed by the suit manifest yeah and from following on from that argument i i simply i have to ask do we need to tie down the signature algorithm with a mandatory to implement one or is it adequate for a certain for there to be consistent pairs of author and consumer okay so while i'm at the mic let me just finish what i was going to say and then i'll pass it to david brown um i think the the only case that i can think of where my previous statement doesn't hold is if you do have say an intermediary that does things with suit manifest without being able to without being able to do the the binary itself right it's just the forwarder but it may do things like oh i do the counter signing for them that type of thing and if i need to be able to counter sign i don't care whether i interpret the binary i have to be able to interpret this manifest and that's where i think the mti stuff may actually apply and so david you're up next yes i was actually going to make something kind of a similar point to what you just said we have a some consist configurations we're considering where the device that is being updated may not be network connected and there is a you might call it a helper device an intermediary it may be something on us the same board that's a more powerful processor that it needs to be able to take this firmware blob in this manifest and kind of pass it through and it would be nice if it was able to verify the signature and you know not do operations that are unnecessary does that mean now do we just have three parties and we need to make sure they all agree on what algorithm is done there that you know when it really comes down to it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "it is up to just the parties participating the people making the firmware and the device needing to agree on this and i mean that's practically that's how we're doing it now you when you build mcu boot you pick the signature algorithm that's used and you better sign it with that same one or it's not valid so as far as mti i'm not sure i see the benefit so i just want to just as chair i want to understand what we're actually saying here so i think i think what's being said is that there there are multiple parties that may be working together in an ecosystem and i think what we're suggesting is that the signature algorithm or algorithms that get implemented within a given ecosystem will effectively be sorted out by those parties and because of that we don't need an mti is that is that what's being said i think so cr michael saying you strongly agree with me and so i'm going to try to say what i was going to say and hoping that this is what he strongly agreed with i think what i was concluding is that because you can have these uh the middle entities such as a cosigner type of a role right which is not you know the destination that's not running the suit manifest but i may have to parse the suit manifest construct uh one that references it or construct a derivative that replaces it whatever it is right and so for that i think having mti is important so i guess my straw man from what i've heard so far not strong is that constrained devices can pick either ecdsa or hss lms but must pick one of those two um to be to claim compliance and that um authors and cosigners and things must implement uh both so both the branditory implement on the other roles that's kind of where i'm arguing and i think that's what would give interoperability for scenarios like co-signing and so on and you know referencing dependency manifests and so on but still leave the freedom to constrain devices"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "to pick the most appropriate one within the set of mtis so i guess that would be my proposal on the table right now from what i've heard so far dave just a clarifying question you know what if what if authors are writing manifests for a specific set of devices where they know you know the signature method that's being used um would they have to support both in that case you're asking me my proposal and so um i will answer my opinion um what the rest of the working group says i can't say but my opinion is if you're a manifest author that's authoring something for a particular device you might think you know what that device has okay but if the actual device is not going to process your manifest the actual one is going to process because you may not know the actual device you're doing it for a class of devices the actual device might do one that's done by a counter signer instead right you're the manufacturer of the software or something so you construct one but the administrator of the device says i'm actually going to parse that myself and i'm going to replace it with my own that's the counter sign because i've got the signature he's actually going to trust right and so the only entity that parses it might not actually be the device and so that's my argument for why mtis are important even if you think you know the device so but i see michael is in queue so maybe you have a better idea i'm just going to say that you i hope my audio is better my that i think you captured what i was strongly agreeing with um but the the the the subset issue is that the author knows what uh the manufacturing author knows what's available they're not going to go outside of that list period okay it's not even about guessing they constructed the device to know what's available period now what your point is dave and i agree with strongly but that might not be the trust bank of the device is going to trust because it might be an operator thing the operator has to pick a trust banker or has an algorithm that the device can support"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "um finally i would say that i'm not sure i would say eastbay and a test and and hash based signatures it's too hard to pronounce but um are a must i actually would say east pds day is a should and the case where you shouldn't use it is when it's been defeated or you don't have code space for it right must ec dsa as i should and the other ones on the next slide were maze i think we're on on that topic though i think we're rehashing a little bit about about what we talked about on in at iatf 111 you know we did a a poll and we talked about you know the two and there was strong consensus towards if we had a single one um a single mti uh to to to make the hash based you know the the mti i think that was largely driven by the discussion around quantum resistance so we wanted something that would last i guess as chairs are we ready to uh say that we have between this discussion and the discussion we had at there that you were just summarizing david are we saying that that is the proposed consensus let us know if we've misread consensus [Music] that makes sense to me [Music] ira asks a question in the chat about um why would why ecdsa being issued rather than e-d-d-s-a is the question okay michael just responded to the answer okay right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "well i i mean from that perspective perhaps we need to have a few more uh options available uh in the optional to implement yep um so i'm just doing time check we're at uh 15 minutes after the hour now do you want to go on to the next presentation now i think maybe this is one for the list exactly what we're proposing we need to confirm it on the list i think that's right that that h ss lms will be the mandatory that ecdsa is assured and anything else is a may we're declaring as the consensus from this discussion which we will then need to confirm on the list so i think we can go on to the next presentation unless there's any objections or new technical information i think firmware encryption yeah we we've only got 15 minutes left so we kind of need to pick up the pace so who's presenting this one okay i tried to be fast hope you can hear me can you can you hear me you hear you fine okay cool uh yeah so this is um a short update on the firmware encryption uh we had a good discussion at the last iedf meeting and there were two main aspects there one was to um take the hp key the hybrid public key encryption and make that a standalone cozy method which we did there's a separate document available and that would be discussed in the cosi working group um i'm not going into the details so essentially was extracted content from the suit working group document that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "was brought into this one uh and the other thing was we had um two attacks listed and uh in the presentation from the last itf meeting and uh those or the the mitigations of those have been incorporated into this version and i have um two slides that talk about those uh just as a summary on what the solution is the first one was an issue with uh sort of had to put the um sort of the the content of the encryption information uh because it uh had to be in the envelope and so it couldn't be the manifest uh so that's what we what we did uh this is essentially something that uh was carried over from uh brenton's presentation about the uh document split um so conceptually this was in the the suit manifest are just in a different language i would say um so this is just essentially the suit encryption input tag in the envelope the envelope as a reminder is not protected by the digital signature uh itself but it manifest this okay next slide and the other one was about a verification i'm sort of mechanism to allow uh the prevention of battery exhaustion so when the device receives the firmware update it wants to perform as little operations as possible to determine whether the payload it receives is actually correct or it has been properly signed um and properly encrypted in this specific case actually and so what we did here isn't and there's still a dupe down here but there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "uh in a nutshell the idea is that there's a this um a byte sequence in the manifest that uh is um where we apply the content encryption key on a string of eight bytes with a specific character like this in this case uh hex a5 uh it doesn't really matter what it is but uh um that allows the consumer to check with the keck that it got whether this um this string actually decrypts properly so the only open issue here is what i need to use and that's in the document that's something we still have to hash out but um yeah okay good uh so so this was um sort of the current uh sort of updates and the approaches for addressing the threats that we talked about last time and and we also talked about different solutions and this is one of them so please have a look at this um there's also a code for the hb key which i created and i've also been working on a cozy uh the corresponding cozy code uh which i need to clean up and and will be published out soon what we are still lacking is uh interrupt testing on this functionality unlike for some of the other features in the main specification which which we have tested uh already and i i just talked about this open issue uh a second ago and yeah that's that's all there is so i i hope the discussion in the cozy meeting goes well so that we can then reference this of course there will be uh changes um i expect changes to the cosy hpke document itself as we try to make it more general and applicable to use cases beyond uh firmware encryption um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "but i think that's a that's a good a good approach going forward [Music] that's all i had for the firmware encryption okay so those are two uh current working group documents the other two although they came split out of a working group document their current individual submissions do we have a preference between the other two which one to cover given that we've got eight minutes left here uh between trust domains and update management mike i i i observe that you told us the the thinking behind the split out in your previous presentation so um i think we leave it to brendan to tell us uh where where the open issues might lead to more group participation brandon which one would you like to go to probably the more interesting one especially because of the team dependency trust domains uh yes please okay go ahead all right uh next slide please oh right uh video um so essentially this is simply just an export it contains the delegation chains dependencies and multiple suit processors and unlinked directive next elise there is a dependency from t on this particular draft um although i don't know if that's been declared yet uh it's just the things that i know t depends on got moved to this draft next please so uh delegation chains are essentially just a list of lists of sibor web tokens"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "the idea behind this is that in each list the first element is a cwt that can be verified against a trust anchor and the last element is contains the key that you can use to verify a manifest so it's essentially just a chain of signed elements each one containing a public key each element should authenticate the following one in each individual list and obviously there's options for a device to skip ahead if it recognizes something next please dependencies so these are a fundamental component of suit or word and they've heavily influenced the design of suit this is why suit has multiple sections rather than one single list of uh elements it should or one single list of things it should do this essentially uh it was for dependency lock step processing that was the the uh the suit command sequences were split apart like that um and there's all the the requirements of dependencies that come with that and it's also necessary to support encrypted manifests i think that's an important uh thing to recognize next slide please so integrated dependencies are when a dependency is placed in the suit envelope and that will be probably how encrypted manifests are typically uh delivered and those are covered in this document as well and they have the same reference semantics as i described for integrated elements in the previous presentation thanks please multiple suit processors are also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "covered and that's when you have multiple mutually distrustful man processing environments in a single device in in the classic iot case the most likely thing i've encountered is a radio module that has a signature of its own firmware um and that is signed by a different trust anchor than the uh the app the the firmware for the application uh which is running on a separate processor so the idea behind multiple suit processors is that you have a dependency that has its own signature and it hands over a component to another processor which then processes its own suit manifest and return some status information next slide please the unlinked directive was uh specifically requested by uh by t i'm not sure if it's quite in the right form and i think we'll have a debate about that within the discussion this week uh but that's uh also covered in this document next slide please yeah i just want to give a quick ad here that the teep session is the first session on friday morning and so that one the teep session will be discussion of the use of uh suit in teep uh akira and ken are both here in this meeting and they both filed issues relating to suit manifests and teep and so i'd like to encourage um everybody uh that wants to follow this topic also please come to that meeting because we're not gonna have time to discuss it here but uh there may be time in the tea meeting on friday so uh so then there is just the question of the open issues we don't have any running code for most of it um [Music] i'm concerned that we're using about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "whether or not we're using the seaboard web tokens correctly and yeah any contribution would be massively welcome um that's it uh both this document and the uh the other one that was the uh update management are both draft moran right now uh this is a question of the working group both of these have i think content that was originally pulled out of the original suit manifest document so that we could take the original one as the minimum one and uh go to rfc as soon as possible and i think none of the content was pulled out of there because people objected it to having it be in suit and so i guess uh the proposal that i would have would be are there any objections to taking both of these documents and adopting them as draft ietf rats documents to put them back as official working group documents which they were before right that's the that should be i believe the next step i just want to verify that there's no objections to that yeah draft ietf rats thank you michael um yeah sorry uh draft ietf suit yeah sorry if i miss said that i just came from the red sweetie right before this sorry okay as long as there's no objections then that is the normal thing because these came out of a suit document to begin with so they were already working your content before so any other questions for brendan especially on the open issues here so running code for the integrated dependency will be coming that's great to hear great yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "yeah we don't need an adoption call just asking for objections because it was our content was already adopted yeah okay so i think we're now out of time um and so any further discussion on this one in particular since this is uh stuff that's used by teap some of this will be in scope for discussion on friday so again please come to the discussion on friday uh first agenda slot or first uh meeting slot uh on friday so thank you all anything else you wanted to add dave or us before we close the meeting just brendan post the uh the documents and we'll approve them yeah so i should uh i should repost them as draft.etf then yeah please and you can do that during the week if you want to so we'll do all right thank you all"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:17",
    "text": "[Applause] bye bye guys meeting minutes are done you"
  }
]
