[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "good to see you thank good to see you too bye yeah doing okay uh just getting things set up here at um the uh the chat isn't working so I think if people want to say something probably uh there should be few enough I think you can just unmute your mic and and talk if it gets to be a problem uh we can we can work on uh something else I guess if we have presentations going on probably good to jump in the queue that can just be a note to us that there's there's someone there but uh but since the chat's not working um don't be shy about just uh jumping in to say something I think maybe we'll give it a few more minutes let others join it feels strange to me taking having a me Techo session at home it became the norm during covet but I don't think I've done it since we started meeting in person so this kind of feels like going back in time to me a bit a time that I don't really have the greatest memories of okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:04",
    "text": "and uh we basically have two things on the agenda for today um we have a set of slides that just cover overall ietf pgpp coordination that Lionel will go through and then we have a contribution from John about the draft uh uh that he and others are have worked on and submitted and I believe it's on the agenda for um this ITF meeting and tswg tsbwg and uh and we'll talk about that as well um the goal is to have some extra time though for just uh people to raise up to raise things uh and I should just start by saying uh you know the whole kind of point of having this call is to help us identify any kind of you know things hopefully not eventual problems hopefully more like things that are going well but but just to talk about how things are going in general between IHF 3gpp and rather than wait until the meeting and then kind of at that point in time start pulling people around and saying hey you know this might be something we need to look into have a little bit advanced notice and to share that with a broader set of people who who may not be able to join us at the IHF meeting so that's really what this is for is to share information and also help us prep for things that we might want to dig into in more detail at the actual ATF meeting um when we meet there and we'll talk about brought that a little bit more later so uh I don't know just any questions on that overall approach because I think having this meeting is a little bit new to us but then again I'm a little bit new to this role too so any questions on that before we kind of jump in okay uh great and uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "let me go ahead and open the little slides here and let's see I think I need to remember how to do this I think there's a way for me to pass control to you Lionel but uh yeah yeah uh you should you should see like something saying control has been passed to you and you can't yes yeah I can okay great um thank you um okay so let me check no I'm not driving um let me check what is videos coming through nice and clear it's just something with the Audi as well not good um I think that my mic is not working so it sounds a little better now it's just when you it's better like this uh no no don't keep it too close it's actually sounds like it's uh it's almost like a little too loud or like okay I don't know how it sounds for others I mean I can I can hear you I can make out what you're saying it's just uh it's a little garbled Bill do you by any chance have uh any anything like a microphone or a headset or something you could use I know that's something that Echo recommends I have one but um this issue that is the one used by the uh uh is the one used by little I will check how to change it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "I don't know how to configure it if anything the uh the microphone being a little bit further away from you might be a little better it's hard to tell them what would you go to the tools button at the top right of your screen second to the right yeah you can say change devices and you get a device selection okay maybe that's uh and your microphone is totally overdriven it's skipping badly that's why we can't understand it is it better like this can you hear me yes still totally clipping you have to reduce the gain on that microphone uh yeah and I don't know how to do that let's see foreign or some other microphone maybe there's one built into your laptop or um [Music] as a microphone is good here so yeah it's let's see another comes is there any and ah is it bigger now I think if anything you need to talk very softly uh not much"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "so if you look at your medical screen on the top left you see an audio representation and that appears to be hitting the roof all the time and you need to turn down the game here [Music] foreign yeah that's better nope can you hear us because yeah you sound better you you can you hear me yes can you speak if I can hear you at least much more clearer now you know hello yes we can hear you can you hear us I can't hear you so uh your audience we can hear you fine but I guess that doesn't matter yeah okay um let's see I can uh I can run through the slides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "and you could oh can you hear us now Lionel yeah we don't hear you uh we heard you okay if you could hear us at the end now and unfortunately the chat I don't know okay I think uh maybe I'll just have to present the slides and uh if Latino manages to uh get back on he can jump in and uh correct or add more things as we go along um so I'll have to take control back of the slides uh sorry about this everyone okay so so here's the overall agenda that we plan to go through in Lionel if you're able to hear and feel free to jump in at any time but uh uh first of all just you know a little bit of a round table that was sharing with what the overall plan was here and then uh we'll go through the some uh you know what's been going on between 3gp and ietf and the coordination that's been happening there this is actually based on a set of slides that Lyon will put together and uh presented at the uh the last sa plenary meeting to inform"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "everyone at 3gpp kind of what's going on between 3gpp and IHF uh we've talked about the liaison statements that we have out um what's going on with Ayanna because there are some issues with that before and and some good work to try to get that on track um then we'll talk about uh the status of some dependencies between really dependencies that the gpp specifications have on ietf documents then just for information there'll be a sharing of the uh the plans for upcoming 3gpp releases where we are with release uh 18 plans for 19 and and some very early discussion and thought around 20. and then uh we'll open it up for for other business which will start with the presentation that John put together so jumping into the coordination um let's see this first part I don't need to tell people here about so much it was just informing people at the 3gpp meeting what happened at our last iatf meeting and how we met in Yokohama and that we had a session much like this where we pulled people together within the IHF Community to discuss you know interactions with 3gpp and then to inform them of the next meeting feel free to jump in at any time if you have a question uh or or want to uh yeah go ahead Magnus yes about the trans sending procedures towards CDP perform ideas I mean from a shares perspective Etc the roles I mean it's what's the expectation here is it still that you fill in the form and you touch a format the document with the actual text as you can because the tool sends to to the CDP"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "license but it's the issue was I guess before had this been straightened out anymore okay yeah I think we uh I don't know if we had a a slide on that I think that's something we need to talk about um because uh I'm just learning a bit how that that tool Works um in terms of uh both you know receiving um liaison statements from through gpp and how to share that then with the iotf community and like get it posted and then the other way around how to interact and I think it's best at this point in time if uh if the chairs uh just keep me involved whenever if they have something they want to send to 3gpp and then you know we can work I can work together Lionel as well with um the folks in 3gpp who will be on the receiving end of that just to make sure that everything goes through and that it's in a format that they know how to use and because I I think there's a there's some manual uh process and there's also some sort of automated tools that make it look a bit more automated than maybe it is or that automate some parts but you need to know that there's still a little bit of manual work there to get things to go correctly and some assumptions as to what information is shared in the format and uh and I think we do have a slide on that later on that Lionel put together um so I think we can talk about that a little bit more on this call but that was actually one of the the big things I wanted to work on at the next at this upcoming IHF meeting and try to figure out both understand how our tools are working and uh and then see where come up with like a maybe a written down procedure of how to go about handling these Liaisons and then maybe do something in the working group chair session informing people okay here's what we're going to do going forward but I don't know at this point"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "exactly what that is yeah I guess and that also needs coordination with the other license manager to other groups because how to take the different yeah because unfortunately each organization has a different way that they deal with uh Liaisons and some are more rigid in how they do it than others um so 3gpp uh as you know I think we all know now they they expect a contribution to be submitted uh in the form of a Word document that's formatted a specific way uh just like other meeting contributions that come into the 3gpp meeting that's the way it liaison and then 3gpp responds with uh formal response back which appears very similar but it's directed to ietf and then we end up receiving that 3gpp document yeah I think Peter speaking here I think the point is during this uh the I see ITF Aziz line statement guy woman from CBP if she receives an email she always looks into the attachment and assumes that's the uh life statement is in the attachment and if you have sent just an email without any attachments then she does not know what to do with this one then she do not then she has no idea what is the content and if this is just a draft or something like this so as I expect and usually an email with some indication what is in the attachment and the attachment contains and this uh competencies information from iitf and if this attach results there then she does not know what to do and then sometimes these line statements are getting lost"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "so that's why I think it's probably best at this point that you have some uh yeah like in the case for example Magnus if you have a liaison you want to send to 3gpp uh you can reach out to me all work uh with you and with uh Suzanne and 3gpp make sure that everyone's kind of doing and getting what they need and and that's clear what's supposed to happen with this uh with the liaison statement and like if we just do that while we figure out okay where are there gaps in the tooling or where Are there specific things in the tooling that need to be highlighted so everyone knows you know that's an important aspect and where there's a 3gp specific things that we're not going to have like what Peter uh just said and maybe we need to write up some text about how that works yes I'm not quite sure what the solution is but I think uh getting away from relying too much on the tooling for right now use the tooling but but make sure that we have a just an email you know chain about each of these so that we can make sure that tooling is working as expected and the Liaisons being handled yeah it could be that we if you have these kind of Life statement and you have just an email then Charles and I we could sit together and put out of these uh emc's email a final document and send it to us realize statement coordinator and then it's clear okay but I guess in this case with the next one I expect now that is we can ensure that we we are creating a attachment for the tool and then so that hopefully works and then you can verify that it's been reaching and it's sent so including YouTube okay uh let's see and what did I skip over here I think uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "let me just go back um so at the last meeting what we did we created this and uh a new group under the IAB So within the data tracker we now have a a group for ietf and uh through gpp coordination and we borrowed a bit from the iatf IEEE IAB group uh since they had some some procedures that seemed to be working pretty well for coordinating between ietf and and I Triple E so uh part of what we borrowed from that was this idea of having a a prep call a couple weeks before an ietf meeting to uh to identify um things that that we may need to talk about in more detail at the upcoming IHF meeting so uh now we can use that as a space for sharing information but also tracking things like the center of meeting so uh so I think that'll be a handy thing for us to have uh also just like with uh regular working groups it's an easy way to you know see what the um a mailer is for for this group and those types of things so it just gives us a a home within the data tracker any questions about that oh and uh this actually reminds me another thing I think that was talked about the last IHF meeting was um updating RFC 3113 and I think that would probably make a lot of sense to do um you know sometime in within this next year and probably including some verbiage about how we deal with Liaisons which has been updated uh the other big thing is the dependency tracking tool and we'll talk about the dependencies that we're aware of but uh that's kind of a manual process that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "that fortunately Lionel is pretty uh Savvy with handling and identifying these uh Liaisons and then uh but the tooling that we have in place that basically used to scan all three gpp documents and look for references to IHF drafts and flag those and highlight them for us that's not working anymore so we either need to figure out how to update that tool or create some new tooling and so that's something for discussion both within ietf and 3gpp and maybe something where the IHF tools team uh Carson I know you work a lot with that group maybe there's something we can do on the ietf side to help with this as well okay so we have our the email list oh this is a new email list that got created this is for um discussion specifically on uh satellite and the networking side of things as they relate to satellite technology and I think the important thing here is that it's for people who are you know working across ietf and 3gpp let's provide a place to have some discussions about the touch points between the two but but not dig into or duplicate or maybe go be in conflict with any of the discussions that should be happening in 3gpp right so this work is still being done in 3gpp but just when there's some kind of overlap or touch points with ietf those are the things we want to be able to talk about here and and highlight those and have a group where we we have the ability to coordinate on those um so hopefully it's clear with that uh a new mailing list is four and uh and we can use it and it'll be helpful as opposed to causing any problems"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:05",
    "text": "okay the liaison statements we talked about this a little bit for this one I believe it's only uh things Liaisons from 3gpp coming back to ietf at this point and this one was on the liaison statement that that you had sent previously uh Magnus to sa3 telling them about uh the work on CTP and some of the vulnerabilities uh that had been discovered you know within the IHF with the protocols there and the approach that was being taken and then that kind of a new approach that the working group is looking at and sa3 was uh you know thankful that that information has been provided uh thought that the what was being proposed made sense and just basically want that work to be done you know yesterday so so they just want to be kept in the loop um as a as the ITF working group comes up with a solution for this that they can use yeah go ahead magnets yes I mean that's that's a good summary and I have also kind of admit more informal and and trying to reach out and post it actually three and round three around that they actually need some PDP uh the CDP member companies to actually maybe have their participants in ITF to actually participate in this issue and and I hope that we'll see a little bit feedback from them because this is directly impacting what you're going to implement be required yeah yeah good point we certainly see that within 3gpp as well that uh there'll be that reminder that hey if you want to get something done in 3gp the best way to do it is you know participate in 3gpp and certainly contribution and um so similarly make it clear that that they're welcome and it would be appreciated to have that type of input even it doesn't need to be at the IHF meeting it can be just you know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "participating on a the mailing list and that type of thing reviewing the drafts so yeah to highlight that would be good that that would help speed up the work thank you then the other one here this is uh I believe this was to netmod and it was about within Yang models that uh mechanisms needed for handling these Concepts which in 3gbp have been termed as that is invariant and also a System created uh this just results in some uh you know the within 3gpp they've seen a need to have some way of identifying this to uh within the Yang models to say that yeah you have these this configuration information which typically would be read write but if it's created by the system or if it has this tag in it is invariant that perhaps it gets set and then you can't change it and to make that clear so there's a a draft that's just a a individual draft at this point it's being discussed within the net mod working group and trying to find something where it fits nicely I think ietf is trying to find some a way where it fits nicely into the way Yang works and it still meets the needs of the GDP and uh although that might not be doing exactly what HPP is doing right now so let's try to find that happy medium where where it the the new solution works for kgbp and doesn't uh I don't know negatively impact the way Yang works so this is still being actively discussed in that mod okay no Liaisons from iitf to 3gpp but it sounds like a Magnus maybe there'll be one coming soon and just keep me in the loop on that and we'll make sure the right things happen uh I don't know if I can speak he said"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "yeah you sound perfect now okay so but I would say that it's a general um guideline that we should provide to 3gpp Guy saying that if they want to see something moving forward because they need to in iits so as you said not maybe not at the ATF meeting if it might not be needed but at least to be active on the mailing list and I think it's a general feedback that we should again and again provide to 3gpp guys because time to time especially when you have a new delegates uh the the forgot about this they see IHF just as a front office when you can push some requirements as you will work on this requirement and provide the feedback to 3gbp I would say that's the same apply for ITF guys so I think it's where we need to have a some clear guidelines providing to both organizations to ensure that when something is requested from a specific SEO we have also people involved in this SEO to be able to to to to to move forward in the topic because it is uh especially within 3gpp and ITF it is a contribution driven or comment driven so it's something that we need to to to remind time to time to the delegates in those groups yeah yeah definitely and is there a better way to do that no uh mentioning that in the essay plenary is a good way to do it but is there a better way to do that across the the various essay groups or do you think we should have something to uh quick uh talk with the chairs and like an essay one essay two essay like each sh subgroup to uh to have that point made would that be worthwhile yeah and also in the CT groups and uh yeah it's something that we can remind to at"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "the next uh tsg plenaries and and if there is even a need for a specifications towards the group so to remind this it would be it would be okay thank you okay okay now the uh the tracking of Ayana assignments um actually uh Lionel seems like here if you want to take over because especially this topic I know you have a much better knowledge of what's going on here than I do but no problem is okay for everyone it's fine okay so this one is just for information because we had a cross discussion on this topic and we had an issue um with the uh later specification uh from um top of the uh you can wear a lot of the ionized assignments were not requested or requested but we had no clue on uh so from a coordination point of view internally into a gpp we have no clue about what will be the output of this request uh so what we have decided it's now uh so for two years I think we have decentralized the management of any requests into INF or assignments and we have also a specific action point for the reporters to review all the specification to collect uh all the requirements for ini assignment and to set it to uh to the uh icfe as well so in that sense we are able to track any need for either assignment and we have also created a specific registry within 3gpp to list all the pending Ana requests so um so it's a practical way for us to ensure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "that the work is done is well done and uh and to Monitor to Monitor the output of the nesa and for the second part is that you know that we had a long discussion regarding the uh support number assignment request coming from 3gpp especially for internal interfaces and uh so we had a a issue of that and what we have defined within the gbp's alternative to out assignment it was documented in a specific technical report 29941 and one of the solution provided in this report was to rely on on Dynamic ports to be able to let's say locally assigned a private port to a given a 3gpp interface so it's purely intellectual 3gbp obviously if you cross uh if you have a interdomain interfaces this type of solution will not apply so we will look for a standardized solution like a gns or even requested report number but just for information this information was more for uhp and just to say that we have a already located uh through private ports uh for two specific services and just to say so from the IHS side this uh avoided the need for um uh a new port number assignment request sent to Ayana and so I think it's almost issues that we had in the past [Music] is next slide please so none since the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "last uh plenary I think yeah from the next slide so we have some document in the editor queue so yeah just as a reminder what we see here is the the dependencies that we have some with semi chip draft let's say that this draft our normative references and we need to have an energy publish in order to update our specification and the complication for this aspect will be uh will be noted as completed so it's where we have a clear um a tech monitoring of this um of this draft uh because we may have as a draft and I will have a talk about that later so we have the one from uh here on the um error handling so this one is in the editor queue so we're just waiting for the publication of the RFC and after that we will update the references in our specification we have one also on the ace for the extended ttls authorized next next slide please after that we have so for three gpp point of view they are both at the same level editor queue or aegfu review means that's we are in a good shape and we are confident in the fact that bull mites are soon anniversity so obviously during AIG review you may have some big issues and we will need to address them but from before it means that the work done as a working group level is completed the next slide please uh yes for steel we have the passport Rich call data for service call data so we are expecting uh soon to move this document to editor you will have the uh and having this draft publish as an RFC same for messaging uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "next slide please so it means that first for them there is no issue from a 3gpp point of view and the last one is another it's a new one on the uh oh sorry yes on the deterministic network so we have a request for extending a young model and this is now a new reference in our specification and and we are awaiting also for the completion and the publication next slide I would say that this one has the most critic are most critical from a switch PPP point of view because we need to have a first of all this document approved uh as a working group document uh so two of them are there um we had a longer so the first one on the uh update of the pvct network it was this graph was available for a while but it was block because in the working group they wanted to so in support they wanted first to complete uh ongoing work before accepting new ones so there was a room to do that and thanks to Brian for pushing this uh draft forward so it was in a working group class school a couple of weeks ago I don't know if I changed uh since um I've checked but the draft is straightforward the comment received for this draft hour straightforward also so we're quite confident of the fact that it should not be an issue to move it forward and we have the the one of the quick multi-pass that is a reference in uh some of our specification especially in the main one for the strategy system so it's a technical specification 23 23 501 and uh so far we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "are waiting for having uh this document moving forward and and it's where we need to have also action from the interested companies within three gpp to help also IHF to move forward on this aspect next slide next slide yeah so for this one uh it's uh there is an action point on my side so I need to contact an itu expert because we don't have any more uh h248 uh Mega code for Freight Express within three gpp so I received the contact from uh from uh for an expert from itu and I will contact L and I will try to produce a draft uh just to be able to have a new um code so I think that with a new version of The Joint address we see also with uh ads and a version group shared how to move forward this Draft when it will be available so no progress I would say but at least there is a clear action point today okay next slide yeah it's where I say um uh in the first part of the review of the dependency it was form normative uh normative specification and we have a normative specific enormative reference when this reference is added to a technical specification so the test let's say there's a technical specification is the normative specification and we have another type of a document called technical reports in which we have some studies about evolution of the system and so on and in which we can reference also ATF draft but this draft will become um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "an ITF dependency uh only when there will be included in a normative specification so it's why we have two type of dependencies with ATF but I think it's relevant to highlight this one because as you can see now for instance for the quick multi-pass draft this one was just included in the technical report on so it was a study on a hcss in 3gpp but because the conclusion of this this is it's a valuable solution and it's been cooperated in our specification it was included in a micro specification and now it became a normative reference so I think it's quite could be also interested for specific apis and also ITF uh guys to check this draft and when they are really intuitive uh with this work and especially when there is evidence first discussion between 3gpp and ITF on this topic to be active on both sides just to ensure that the work is a correctly done entry gpp and also that the draft the corresponding graph is moved forward as a working group level first so here you have a list of documents some of them have been already published as a RFC so if they are included uh in our normative spec a new action will be needed because the watch is already completed at the ATF level that there is also other draft that might be for interest for um next slide please and if we could go through these next slides in just a couple minutes because I want to make sure we give uh John about 15 minutes for the rest it would be for information so please uh next yeah so here you have the release it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "will not go through GPS or next slide next slide yes this is where we are today so um today we we are completing the res 18. so we are the protocol level I would say so all the functional aspects and so on our our Frozen so complete it from the 3gpp point of view and we are now working on the on the protocol aspects so uh it's where we need to have at the end of this period um the work completed let's say almost at the same time from the iets side so and so for release 18 it means that we need to have something close to RFC publication and for release 19 it's only the beginning of the of the early industry we are currently as uh so next slide please for race 19 we are currently defining only what could be the content of the release so the uh the the main topic that will be addressed for this release uh and uh so the content will be defined at the end of this year in December and the rest so so for 12 months 15 months we will work on on the um on the on the functional aspects and after that we will go through the through the protocol aspects so it spells that if anything is required uh from ITF or there is 19 it means that we need to have something available about the March 25 June 25 I would say uh so we have time but it's something to to have in mind right now because we know that the process within ITF is not like in 3gbp it might take some time and just going commission there is no so far no discussion about the CBD and if there is anything I would say so if that's your assumption it's something that might start for the risk 20s or after 25 and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "to have something available uh for normative aspect in release 21. so let's say that we have time to address this issue in 3gbt and once we have the big ticket items identified for at least 19 uh we can share that uh and have a little discussion within ietf as to where we think they're you know just to highlight where there may be ITF working groups or work going on that's uh you know related but from from United point of view there is a new thing and it's good is that in advance people trying to notify uh what might be retried from ITF just to ensure that the feature will be completed on time so it's something that we have initiated for is 17 and we will do the same for race 19 so I think if the progress number to what we had in the past and I think we can conclude here because after that it was just any other business and we have one okay great um any questions on that uh otherwise I'm going to hand it over to uh see Spencer yeah go ahead Spencer I I just wanted to to thank you uh Lionel for uh including the um the potential ietf dependencies uh thank you okay John are you uh you're ready there hi hi Charles yes I'm ready um is that all right uh no you can share I think I've seen"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "this way it's over okay so I just passed control U so you should be able to drive the slides too okay you might have to accept that I don't see any requests to accept you don't I but it's okay it's only about five or six lights so if you'll help me um okay I'm gonna take that control then okay and okay go ahead all right so well first of all thanks a lot for the opportunity to present this to you know folks who understand both 3gpp and the ietf side of things uh so this is a draft we have in um in tsvwg the problem is about media handling with low latency and high bandwidth for wireless networks um I think it was referenced a little bit in what uh Lionel and Charles presented on slide 28 for example you know there was the reference to one of the drafts in 3gpp which has now become a standards um component in in 23 501 but I want to caution that this is not just about a 3gp problem it's about a wireless problem and a longer term problem that the ietf can help with so if you go to the next slide I'll introduce well maybe I'll skip this and go in this outline with what I'm going to present I mean the overview 3gpp water gpp has done in release 18 and I think it was referenced in slide 28 too um why I think we what are possible options when we encounter encrypted media which is not solved today I think in fridge maybe at least and a whole"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "bunch of solutions that we can look at and why we need to look at that in the longer term with the media that's coming up you know avatars and real-time media and a mix of that and how we handle latency and bandwidth and the combination of all of that so if we go to the next slide I'll introduce a problem in a little more detail yeah so fundamentally I think the challenge that 3gbp looked at in release 18 and has now standardized for RTP payload um is how to handle media that requires a whole bunch of I mean a high bandwidth and also very low latency in the presence of these transient variations in link capacity and the observation and the studies that went on there also say that the random or tail drops affect application performance adversely so you know just letting the wireless network just drop some stuff is not a good idea and the decision was to go ahead and standardize in such a way that we can just drop not just packets but a whole media unit like for example a p frame in a video may be dropped in extreme conditions while an iframe would not be you know and that's the that's the real issue that's being interested here and a part of the solution that 3gp we looked at is both Alpha rest congestion I mean l4s condition feedback to react and also the selective dropping and I think the point is that the l4s and the congestion aspects were react in the order of 100 milliseconds or so depending on what the round trip latency was like and the number of round trips but the dropping decision is at or below a millisecond uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "if you want to really maintain that full bandwidth in the presence of very high transient link capacity variation and I just wanted to note that this capacity change is going to be even worse for millimeter radio accesses because any obstruction or something is going to massively decrease bandwidth and then then very next many second you have a huge amount of bandwidth and so on you know and some of the things are what the scheduler can do but some of the things especially from applications like media we need to have information that can help that's what the 3gpp I'm going to the third bullet where the 3gp is already specified the use of l4s and package drops for unencrypted artificial flows and as was alluded to in the 3gp you know timeline release 19 work is beginning and one of the items that has not been agreed to but is in the um in the list for agreement is about how to handle encrypted media flows and in combination of that not just the encrypted media flows but also avatars plus you know I guess AI generated content plus you know augmented and all the other reality so all of these are coming up and we could look at it as a long-term issue so this is very focused it's not for the large internet but it is for the access side and I just want to point out that this draft we're not looking at just the 3gb wireless network uh I think it would benefit the Wi-Fi and I hear from talking to people offline maybe even cable networks and others so the idea is to develop a common mechanism across you know 3gpp or Wi-Fi or others and media transports for RTP and quick and applying to Applications not just for video delivery but also video and AI generated content and all"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "of that what I mean is that there will be differences in latency requirements how much it can tolerate delay and the importance of whether it's dropped or not so that's the problem statement and if I if we go to the next slide so just to point out what I mean to put in the context of what the 3gp has been doing uh it's proposed and now is in 23.01. so essentially what we characterize as a wireless router that's going to classify and then let the wireless network do I've sort of put it in this figure as you know the classifier in 3gpp terms is more or less the UPF which takes this RTP payload and looks at the header classifies this separates it into different media streams and so I mean sorry qos flows so that's what is a qfi here I'm going into maybe too much detail here but just to say that the shaper at that level is going to make decisions on whether to delay things or whether levels of bandwidth but the point is again that this the part of the ietf is how to get this common mechanism for encrypted media I mean all types of evolving encrypted media and applied to not just 3gpp but also other accesses so if we go to the next slide you know we've looked at a whole bunch of I mean there are probably a whole bunch of solution options that come up and um I guess some of the criteria that we looked at were you know the evolving media encoding I mean not just video or one way I mean it must maybe sensory input or you know real and uh generated"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "content with different uh delay aspects how we handle the feedback and packet pacing there may be multiple L2 Wireless paths application preferences of course you know for example you may have a content provider may prefer to not drop advertisements and may want to send other content at a lower priority and of course that's performance and security so if we look at various possible options I guess starting with dscp it would have been ideal if we if it was possible to have you know many more bits and um maybe an extension header that would be able to convey things like on a on a on a group of packets but the sap only is able to extend it to flows and what we're looking at it as for a group of packets and not just a priority in terms of you know higher or lower but also delay constraints and perhaps loss constraints and that's what will help the wireless network um a second so I think dsap is going to be very hard to change it's it's fundamental and I don't think it's practically changed but it would have been ideal the the second option is using a media header uh extension I mean for example a UDP header extensions um that's what was referred to in slide 28 that Lionel and Charles presented as well um so you know and you could send it in band or tunnel and if the application can give some of those information then the wireless router can classify and do all the things that it is doing currently with unencrypted RTP another option would be also to use mask in a similar way except that with mask I think one of the considerations that doesn't work out so well is performance because every packet would have to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "every packet or at least a few packets or a class number of packages would have to be decrypted at the wireless router for examination and classification and it may just defeat the whole thing but it's a similar mechanism a third mechanism would be to look at congestion control segments and I think this is complementary to any other method I mean we could place a media relay at the mobile Edge and I guess we'd have to come up with even more optimal condition control for the mobile segments I see this as a potential longer term solution and complementary with the media header because you know the media header again is looking at sub millisecond kind of optimizations or in the order of milliseconds and the congestion control mechanisms are looking in the order of hundreds of milliseconds others that have come up you know in offline discussions and in 3gpp is one is to use a media of a quick relay but I think this will end up with complex key distributions I mean should 3gpp or Wireless providers or Wi-Fi providers have to get the key and keys for all of all the media level of handling and also it would not work for RTP specific because it's medievable quick a solution that came up in 3gpp was to use gtpu and terminate it at the media server but I think the discussion was essentially that media servers will not likely write your socket for gdp2 and give all those details and this last one on sharing Keys also has come up off and on that you know maybe the application provider can give the keys to the wireless network provider but that as a whole is not so practically either because it works breaks end-to-end security um I think Magnus was asking for a comment I think to add a few things here uh I mean they"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "are around this kitchen instead of having actually trustworthiness of this information is also a factor and that's why actually establishing security Keys between the server and the and the UPS is going to process and could use this information at least the first step all the mobile network in in large I guess is is a factor and there are actually two things right okay I I completely agree I think Magnus um completely agree with that trust is essential um you know and and that's why I think that always I mean I mean trust and security versus performance is a is a never an easy combination and so you know we we can look at I think there may be shorter term longer term or different options that we have to look at and I think that's the discussion we probably need to have um so yeah I mean this is in our opinion the landscape of the set of solutions um yeah I I I I think the issue with the UDP header extension if we don't encrypt it would be that it would have to be secured in some way if we use if we encrypt it then you know we'd have to pay a performance penalty um as it stands currently because we we did look at I mean some of the authors you know we looked at what it would take to decrypt and all of that of the router and it would be basically offloaded and handled and seems to be a pretty challenging but yeah we'd have to then think of trust domains and all that yeah that's something we should be discussing completely agree if we go to the next page um and just to let you know we're pretty much out of time so yeah I can even skip this because this is just one solution I think the key point was in the previous way so if we go to the next page I'll just summarize and uh you know this is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "just one solution what we'd like to see is uh you know I mean I've outlined the problem and what 3gpp has done and that you know fully encrypted media needs additional mechanisms so and the 3gp is going to look at it but you know we want a broader solution across uh various accesses and media transports and applications I guess so you know how do we move forward you know come up with solutions that can help the community at Large thank you great and uh Corey you had a point I'm gonna say thanks and saying thanks um I see that there's a side meeting on something related to metadata and signaling for transport and the ITF and also we will put space in tsvwg's agenda to talk about this specific draft so this is something that I in the ietf group we would love to see progress on quickly like people would have to say if they want to do this work so we can get started because I can see it might take time to settle on one particular outcome yeah I so my headset died before but yes I am I've been in some discussion with the authors of from it about the sad CDN proposal and and um where I mean that thesis is another view of this and saying in relation to the how to encrypt or how to establish a secure Channel between this endpoint and the network and I think that's a crucial part here which we hadn't had when we discussed before and dealing with the kind of plastics but then those kind of proposal which has been kind of the main failing is that unless you speak in direct not a headset uh you you run into this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "certain issues here so I think it's an important aspect that we need to from a nice Dev perspective have a generalized technology for this uh it's at least reaching certain certain applications and use cases goals it's it's it's going to take some time to agree on what's what's the actual relevant aspects of it Etc and how to make it performant enough to do it in in the uh at closed line rate the housing at line rates yeah I mean what else meaning Magnus really was I think this is this is the start of a great discussion on something that is architecturally important to do so let's think we can do it is the GS vwg meeting before or after the side meme I'm not sure actually I think Gary has followed that but I will track it yes okay okay yeah the answer is both tsvwg is before it and after it so we can we can uh we can carve out a little bit of time afterwards to follow up on uh what we do with our next steps maybe I'll try and do that in the agenda okay great and uh uh speaking of next steps I think what I'm going to do is jump back to close this and uh and just to say further we have a time uh during the lunch break on Monday for um ietf pgpp coordination and these slides that we talked about uh today both the ones Lionel presented and this presentation from John I'll make sure uploaded in the the media materials for that but uh but the plan is not to really discuss those it's rather to talk about some of the the things we we identified on this call like uh handling of Liaisons and the tooling and uh uh what was the other thing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "um uh oh and then uh communication back into 3gpp kind of to to talk about action items there among uh a group of folks who might be able to help move those discussions forward so um I'll be putting a lot and all my uh we'll put together an agenda and work with Peter on that as well and if you have any other topics that you uh that you want to add to that just just raise them there'll be an invite out I'm not sure how we're going to do it probably to the same mailer that this meeting invite was sent out to I think we're still trying to figure out how many people are really involved in this this having only 12 people here makes me think it would be a pretty manageable group um but we'll pull in more more people from the iesg who will you know just be there and uh and from the IAD to will want to join in so that's kind of the rough plan for Monday um any thoughts or questions about that okay uh great well thanks everyone uh for joining and uh look forward to seeing you those of you who are able to make it in person uh in San Francisco and the rest of you uh we'll make sure that remote participation is possible for that coordination uh call on Monday as well thank you everyone and sorry for thank you yeah thanks thank you bye-bye bye"
  }
]
