[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:02",
    "text": "Other nice thing about the agenda is basically exactly the same as last time anyway. That's, is and legitimate question. a it's a fair All of the working groups. Fantastic. There you go. I think Yeah? There's a there's a chair here, the Backpack in it. You're welcome to it. Missed the backpack. Actually, this working group has had a problem because it's got 2 experienced chairs on it. I I think I've had this experience now up to 7 years in 4 working groups. Yeah. Ridiculous. Something's gotta be done about it. We're gonna shut today. Tomorrow. I'm working on it. With that with with plotting to get at least one of the other people in this room. Alright. It's time. It's well, it is is time a it a It's a time somewhere in the world. You're welcome to set it. Thanks, Daniel. Who else have we got here? Alright. Hello, everybody. Welcome to the Calix session at 0119 in Sunny, beautiful Brisbane. Where it is not raining today, so that's good. This is the note well Hey. Alright. Shut up."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:04",
    "text": "As I was saying, note this note, well, behave well. Don't yell at people shut up. Shut up. Shut up. Generally be polite and these are the conditions under which your participation applies. So if you know things that you shouldn't know. Don't No. Hang on. If you know of any intellectual property that affects this work, and one of these things actually does have an IPR disclosure on it. Then please let us know or Hold your pace and don't contribute. One of those. Also behave yourself. Alright. We don't need to look at these slides. This agenda is last ITF's agenda. Other than outstanding a writer, this is because I've put the slides together in the last five minutes. But that 5 minute outstanding orada is the only thing He's different. Since last time, I put some different times on them this time, but the fact that we've made no progress since the last meeting is a bit of an issue. So let's JS contact and friends are actually in North 48. They are, basically at the end, but I believe we have some slides for them. I guess before we start, is there any agenda bash Is there anything else people would like to speak about other than the things on this list. Francesca has has raised a personal matter. I just want to say this is my last meeting with the US Responsible AD or I hear will take over for me starting this afternoon. So it was a pleasure to be your responsibility, and thank you, and we'll welcome, Wekamari. Thank you. Hello? I'm Maurice Steele. I'm going to soon be your new responsible AD. I'm looking forward to working with all of you. I'm a bit, bub, double booked for this. So I thought I would come for the beginning, and I'm gonna catch up on all"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "the business that you've you've you're gonna Hopefully, I have awesome minutes for her that I can read afterwards. Yes. And reach out to me at any point in time if you have questions or you wanna share any updates or anything I'm usually very well by email. You can probably all have my email. Thank you. Awesome. Thank you, and welcome. Looking at the documents, the 3 that are in Orth48 are all with Roman at the moment. I imagine he will continue them through us. He's been going around to all the working groups telling us he will continue any documents he's currently working on. Franchesca. So you're listed subscription upgrade, which I pulled back, I imagine that is going to punted across, assuming we go ahead with it. Alright. With that said, Let's move on with JS contact and friends, Robert. Do we have slides for those yet, let me switch that then Alright. Chase contact. The click a little work, I believe, if you want to click your way around. Alright. Robert Stepanek Fastmail. So Chase contact, We had the same title at last IETF meeting, it's still true. It's even more true now, actually. Already been said, all documents are in 048. We are currently working on updating the IDs that that means, ton of, reformatting and layouting But other than that, There are no no big changes we need to make. There there were a couple of small changes since last IETF that we squeezed in right before we went into off 48. The one being that, addresses can be now Address is now neat. Not to be, like, a postal address can also be just a geographic court, coordinates,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "we clarified, the, the, purpose of reserve properties and when and, and that they make, that occurring damage as contact data makes that data invalid. And we also, explicitly mentioned the old ID parameter for the new Graham Chandon pronouns, we call it properties, with that being said and that tricky thing not working, not because it because I changed to the other screens type thing. So you go. Alright. So, we have a nice sequence of 3 RFC numbers I'm very happy with that And the total is somewhere between the Novela and the Nobber. So I'm, happy about all the work that we put into it That's the end of Chase contact. You, Robert. Yes. Any discussion on JS contact and friends? Awesome. There was a believer Jess condo in book. We'll come back to that later. So Let's go back to these slides. So, 3HS. Guess we might as well just go to it, and we can go to the IKE Health task and subscription upgrade later. Alright. There's no Nanita. Stick to the exact order. So GS calendar eye calendar, that's the, dropped document, where we aim to provide to define a standard conversion between Icalendar and JScalendar. We that document was expired, in tandem with the vcard extensions for, JS calendar, I calendar. We now restarted work So Mike and I started reworking on the expired, ID for Chase Canada. I Canada Yoris from Madriga, joined as the 3rd author. We are very happy about that. I think yours couldn't make it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "due to the time zone, difference in this meeting, the goal of the JS calendar, I calendar document is that we define, how to convert any element, between JS calendar and I calendar, The criteria for us to say that we are done with that effort is that we have multiple implementations and tested our com and tested conversion across these implementations meaning we put stuff in the one implementation, take the recite, put that in another implementation and get what we had initially put in the first implementation. We Do plan to keep the JS calendar this document and the eye care and the GS can the extension. So that's the I calendar properties and other elements that we might need to define for I Canada we both plan to keep them expired for now. We will add any content that might need to go into these documents currently in the GS calendar. I can in the document just because it's easier for us to organize, and then we can discuss how we shape these documents for publication, The the main, So so Mario and I had done a very similar effort like, what we are doing now for GES calendar, I calendar with GES contact and Vcard. And learning from that experience, we again want to put in as many conversion examples in the document as we can. I We now even go one step further and Road tooling that extracts the examples that we put into the Internet draft. And actually runs that against our back end. So so we do not have a separate test"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "test repository, the document, is the test repository. And and with that, it encourages us to 1st write many and good examples And we can also then be sure that the examples we have in the document are really we correct, to give you an example how we are doing that, the clicky thing again isn't working. Oh, no. It's working. So, in the left column, that's called example in ID. So For example, when we would define the conversion for the DG start property, we would in the we have in the document, just this one property DT start, and, and in the out in the lower part of that column, you see that what's included in the internet draft, how it's expected to get converted to JES calendar, And our test tool now extracts both of these examples makes them legit. I can data. Sends them to the back end and then converts and then checks that the JS calendar result of the back end matches what the ID, stated as the expected result value. Are happy, very happy with that setup. It's very easy to implement for, implement this to participate in that. You just basically need to, have one URL where you accept a post, with these 2 content types, our tool then generates a report highlighting any differences from your implementation to what's the expected outcome and it basically just requires, rather recent, Python installation, So, with that being said, the next steps for us are that for every INA registered element in I calendar and chairs calendar, We are going to look at how to convert it. That will include stuff that, doesn't have a standard isn't the standard feature in JS calendar. For example, the journal"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "But we will still provide a generic conversion for any I calendar data to JS calendar and Likewise, for any any valid JS calendar data to I calendar, even if it's a vendor extension. And for every item where we see that, any of those two standards are currently lacking. We and the working group together will We'll discuss if if that should be if that should become a new let's say, yeah, a standard element, like a, like a like, like, a legit thing in that spec or all, or if we only need to make it, convertible into some catchall element like we did with, JS contact for some of the properties. If anyone is interested in joining into operation tests, just please send us an email on the mailing list or to the office directly, if you prefer that. We haven't made the GitHub reports Tory, public. We'll do that in the course of the next couple of weeks. And, we look forward to anyone participating in that. The more implementations we have the better interrupt will work in the end. That's the end of my presentation. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this I have some I guess. Procedural questions. Do you want me to mark the documents that aren't being progressed as parked in the data tracker or Should we, I think, leaving a dead internet draft with no tracking information on is bad. So we should either refresh them and just put a note at the top saying this is this is I is I was not aware there that there that there is that option. Haven't spoken to my courses yet, but I I would say yes parking them would be the best choice. We can always unpark them, I guess. Yeah. Then that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "Sounds very reasonable. will park those documents I I think we can un park them, but, We need to make sure because, it's it's it's I don't find it, to to be a real issue to have a I would say a a document that is expired And then we revive it regularly. So so I mean, I, I don't I have no strong feelings about it. Yeah. The other option would be just to post a post a new version with a new date on it just so it doesn't look completely dead, I guess. I'm gonna be asking similar questions about server side subscriptions and I calendar series in a minute, whether they whether we want to continue with them or whether we want to Mark them as as no longer being tracked. So, I would prefer. Sorry. I don't know if you want see something, Daniel? I don't know, For these two documents, we do not plan revive please. that, to soon I wouldn't want to refresh them with a new version, because otherwise it would look like as if their contents still is is a proposal, but it's not that's that's definitely the case for JS calendar biz. And also the the stuff we already put into the I calendar extensions. They're also out of date. I don't want to send this sent the wrong signal to paper looking at it without context Okay. Cool. Thank you. Alright. Mike, do you want speak about, Kel tasks to and subscription upgrade. Sorry. I'm talking to Jimmy working. I haven't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "Anything more to add really this state. I think the tax has pretty much well, that probably both pretty much done. Alright. Ken, I think you had some comments on subscription upgrade when I went to submit it to ASG, which wound up getting it pulled back. So Yeah. Can I do some pass mail? I've got ahead, Daniel. Sorry. No. No. Go ahead, Kent. Mike, did you see the email that I posted to the list? I had a bunch of, editorial myths and maybe a couple technical comments I think we need to address. You just post that video. No. A week or 2, maybe who go, oh, you might have been on vacation when I posted Well, let let me let me check on that I won't you know, we we can we can address those in one of our Cal kind of calls if you want. And if If you, you're spread too thin, you can throw me on as a if co author, and I can help shepherd some of that text through, if you like, Yeah. I think I think I've, which is that 20 Oh, yeah. Found something for the 22nd February. For me the one Yeah. You know, we don't have to hash them out here, but wanted to make you aware of it. Well, I've got plenty of time. So Akel tasks 07 was posted, Kenya, the document was shepherded on that is there anything delaying us, well, there's no shepherd right up yet? The No. Probably probably just I I'm Dolanger, because I haven't written it up yet. Alright. Yeah, if you could write that one up, then just get that Sure. To our new area director Awesome."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "Well, that was A lot quicker than I expected for those 2. Yeah. I just had a quick read through Ken's can't most of them are editorial on it. There are a couple of new some discussion is probably probably on a call Alright. So There was no other working group last call responses on either of those documents. So I did the shepherd right up for subscription upgrade. So, Ken, I'll just check-in with you on that and and and meet again when you when you Yep. Happy with that. Alright. So the other thing we have V Paul here, but before we get to V Paul, there 2 other expired drafts that I think Both have Mike's name on them. So let me pull those up. So just for my understanding, it's the task Can can it be ready by next month or is it a 6 months, I believe tasks is ready to go. I just needs to shepherd right up. So that should be able to be submitted as early as like, Okay. week. This Yeah. The this is kinda I will effort to get the shepherd right up done by theendofnextweek Okay. Sure. So the other two documents that we had were server sites scriptions and our calendar series, both of these, expired quite a while back. Is there any interest in still proceeding with them, or should we mark them dead"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "I guess, Mike Which which 2? Sorry. So So I got the So if that's scriptions, and why don't I do this in fact? We'll Stop sharing the slides and share my screen. So we have Do I do I manage to share my screen or not? No. I need to select and Oh, wow. There we go. We. You have server side subscriptions, and we have our calendar series First of these are expired quite a long time ago. Do we have any interest in progressing these. Or should we knock them head? I think server side subscriptions Probably not I'm gonna go anywhere without the time being I mean, there are a couple of implementations of something like that out there, but none of the people who who, I mean, this is really triggered by something else, everything we haven't had any input from them seriously, Go on. Sorry, Mike. This is Ken. I I'm agree agree with Mike here that The vendor that start of this effort has kind of disappeared and unless someone else shows keen interest in in making this happen. I think we could probably park it for now and revisit down the road if need be. I mean, it it has some useful aspect, but to Yes. It it definitely would be useful, but if nobody shows any interest in It doesn't seem to make much sense for us to spend much time trying to define it series, I'm still interested in in trying to get that moving. It's time not time to Look at it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:07",
    "text": "So may maybe I should try and and give that a refresh just to to wake it up and, I I did start on implementation of it to try it out I guess as a process question here. Some of these things have been sitting for multiple years without any real progress how do we stop it taking so long Is this is this, time availability for you, Mike, or what's locking us. Yeah. Yeah. Time and and it's it's and it's a significant implementation role. I was interested in trying it But, Nope. Let me let me take another read through it and see whether I can I can make some, progress with it? I mean, from my perspective, especially in in with public events, it it makes a lot of sense. Yeah. I think it makes a lot of sense anyway. Yeah. I I agree. I just I remember discussing this 10 years ago, it made a lot of sense then, and it'll make a lot in 10 years, if we don't of sense but not helping anybody. No. Yeah. All right. So we've got an action there, Michael Traurer, freshing series draft, and we'll try and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "progress that will will close down server side subscriptions. Jess calendar. I'll park a couple of those. Tasks and subscription upgrade. We've got a pathway forward for a JS Contacts and the last thing on this list is V. Paul. Well, can just, posted, bunch of, comments, which I and a chance to really look at Yeah. This is Ken. Mike, most of the stuff that I put in there is just register registrations that weren't in there But on the positive side, I've actually upgraded the Cyrus implementation this week. It works, in the process of writing some tests So, We can spend some time, refreshing the text and make sure it's, you know, where it needs to be and hopefully get this thing going maybe before Vancouver. Yeah. I think as I remember, the biggest, issue with the the documents itself, there are all those Alright. Tip tables, Yeah. We've already proven that the technology works with our interrupt testing few years back. Oh, yeah. By me reimplementing it, I just verified that changes you had made in a in the component and the the property was pretty straightforward and it still works. So I'm kinda happy where it is. We just need the get back at it. Okay. Alright. So action is Cannon Mike. T reword Well, I need to make the updates that Ken's proposed and at least refresh the document with those in place. And also then take a look at my implementation. Alright. That is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "everything that we had to speak about. Is there any other business? Let's look at. And milestones. Submit V. Paul to ASG for publication is set for July 2020, 4. Do we think that's still A reasonable time frame. Said Vancouver. Yeah. Cool. JS calendar mapping documents. So, certainly, not before November, But in the end, it not not only will depend on us having defined the conversion, but it will also depend on the people participating to have implemented conversion that I can't speak for the other organizations take part of that. But, We should aim for November. Okay? And shall I remove some of the documents that are currently listed with it, leave, JS calendar, our calendar as the remaining document. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. 2. Done. Alright. Just for a clarification regarding the Do we expect it takes time? Because it's a the the time to test Or, do we expect to have some issues or there are still some things that needs to be resolved I Back, no issues, especially now that the Chain App calendars, RFC will, register I register the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "a new property for participants at IANA that will help us resolve most likely the issues we had with, converting the scheduling related properties the discussions that we had over the last 2 years, basically, I don't see any I don't have any other issues on my radar, maybe we will find something when we write the document, but other than that, it's really just, that we wouldn't want to published the RFC without having seen exposed to at least to the implementations of the organizations that Burr the office where we have authors working on a document. So meaning at least 3 implementations we would like see in top and that I can't town what, what's their bandwidth, with regards to that implementation. Okay. Yeah. Sure. Thanks. Cool. So that one is November. And then calendar series document. So ASG, this is the one that's getting refreshed now. What we'd what we'd what we'd what we'd what we'd don't have here is submit task draft that's back here in November. Gonna have to move that one forwards to round about April. And there was submit, Service side. Not so beside the other one. Subscription upgrade. Subscription upgrade. Alright? I'm still slightly dubious about keeping going with BPO again without buying from enough people,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "It would be worthwhile. It's been sitting there for a decade or so, and no one's shown enough interest. To try and implement it in a production system which Yeah. I don't know. Razors a red flag for me. Mhmm. Michael, Ken, do you want to counterpoint that. It's it's kinda hard to counterpoint it. The only thing I would say is it may not be because it's been languishing for so long, people that could be interested in might not be aware that it actually exists. Well, was a little surprised, I 4 or 5 years back. Discovered that one of the sites that, installed beadwork was actually using Vipo. So You're very top Mike, is it, Sorry. Too. Yeah. better. That's Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I was I was I was very surprised to find that a site that installed beadwork think they're somewhere in Germany. Had actually started using V pole. That Yep. There's definite benefits to it. Yeah, I think if it just sits there, looking like a draft, then perhaps, not helping. I I think it's close enough to being done at this point. It's probably worth the effort to to finish it. If it turns out that the tech the tech isn't correct will come up with a v pole too. Yeah. That's my opinion as well. Alright."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "That sounds like doesn't hurt, publish it. I guess the question is whether we shipped it to informational or not. Strong opinions on that. Wow. We'd go for standard. Or is is there experimental standard? Or experimental. I mean, it depends. I mean, I have the impression that, informational is usually be used for, implementation that are None standard but heavily deployed. Yep. Experimental just means I I I don't actually know how people perceive that. But, they might not be encouraged to use that. So I I I tend to think that standard track might be probably the best, the more appropriate, tag, The this is Ken. I I guess my only question would be if we go the experimental route, which I'm not opposed to And it it it Turns out that people do actually wanna use this. What's the path to go standards track to Create a new draft, And CH change the status on it. I believe so. Yeah. Okay. And We can still register component and property names in an experimental at least, at least, at least, at least, at least, at least, at least, to reserve the names. Correct? Yep. Yeah. I've yeah. Now that I think about it a bit more having said it, I don't see the point going experimental because it's not going to create interoperability problems for anyone Either way, So we may as well just assess them as well. That's that's true. Is there any chance we could Is there ever gonna be another, like, actual Calconnect meeting. And if so, Can we see if any other calendar vendors Have any interest?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "Doing this maybe. Maybe. Well, I think I was gonna I asked the same question about some of the other work we're doing. Cream, we need to widen the the testing base for things like and Jay's counter. Those and significantly concerned. I mean, if we don't attract the major vendors, and get some actual work going there It's not a good one either. yeah, we we need to get together with So, and and pulling people who are outside of active participation in the IETF and get them involved in some of this stuff. So, yeah, I think We've got some work to do in attracting people. To implement some of the stuff we've been doing. K. Alright. Who's going to do that. Chase up these people, contact them, parress them to test. Think we need to make use of the contracts we might have. I mean, the hardest Tell me The hardest to get engaged are gonna be the major vendors. They've since gone particularly secretive lately, but without their engagement, Most of what we do is gonna go anywhere. Yep. Alright. I'm just gonna finish this subscription upgrade to ASG point here."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "And I think that's we had, Tough draft. Subscription upgrade. And then we've got Series mapping and V poll. Still in place. We do think July is reasonable for me. Probably discussed it and So that's fine. But then, We need to chase up vendors, and that's kind of a separate question I guess long in that. Alright. So they've been sent through to our Area director Francesca. It's still you for another few minutes. If you want to approve our milestones. Alright. So who Right. Right. Saying we need to use our contacts. Someone someone needs to, I guess, have an action to do that. And I think this probably falls to Calconnect hertz can or make to just Take this on. Contact Calconnect people and say, hey. We need your testing. Well, I can certainly, circulate something on the list about Both of these things Certainly, I could use the help from for Lee people who actively involved in trying to promote them. So I Yeah. Yeah. Probably means Fastmail. Joining in on on this push. Yep. Well, events. That can Yes. Alright. That is everything we had in our agenda. We've finished well in advance at the time we had available to us, and we've been stuck in a 1 a half hour slot of which we've used less than an hour,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "does anybody have any other business So my final slide on this deck was the question about Vancouver. Should we meet in Vancouver? Do we actually have enough work the worth doing in a in this context, to justify taking up a slot. In the agenda. Would we be better with an interim? I don't think that we will have much to present with Fotia's calendar, I calendar at least not making it worth, get to Vancouver. I'm sure we will make lots of progress, but, we can circulate it on the list or in an interim as well. As as far as the other I calendar drafts, given that small number of people actually involved in writing these things that could probably be done in doesn't really need to be in person. Does anybody want to speak against that? In favor of meeting in Vancouver. Alright. At you, everybody, for joining us s. Yes. I do not believe so. No. Can't see the agenda. This question was Maybe I have a Question. Yeah. When is the next, Calconic meeting?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "Good question. We haven't set one up. I was was was was was Come sitting trying to promote one over in the West Coast, Vancouver and but that's Open. And if we can persuade some people to get actively involved in testing Chase calendar, I calendar, and I tip issues. Then It might be a little early to try and where's the one after that? Dublin. No one's supposed to go. Remember, The West Coast is always is always quite poppy was a for people. It's probably a little early to to, Promotional enough interest, but let let's I think we should see whether we can get anybody interested in in in the jscountering and and and I count a conversion work outside of this small group that we have so far and if we could do that fairly quickly then, that might change our viewpoint. I mean, we could have something around the same time. I have just one other question that occurred to me that I don't think vcard is currently also part of Calxt. Of the Calix working group or is it? Rickard is. Yes. Okay. So he, speaking of a router, there was some In B cart, but not that we need to talk about it, but I wasn't sure when you said there is no Eruditus, one, I think, or at the moment, at some Yeah. Alright."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "Not your problem. In a few hours. It's not your problem in a few hours. Beam. Alright. So I'm expecting Daniel that we will say not meeting in Vancouver unless we hear otherwise. And but we will keep the working group. Ticking along, with the work that's happening in the background and hope we call connect can get the big players involved Again, and get them to test some of this stuff Alright. With that, thank you everybody. Okay. Thank you. See Enjoy your day. you now. Thanks, Daniel. Bye. And see you. Thank you. Bye bye. Yep. Yes. Mean, Yeah. Yeah. So Yes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:11",
    "text": "Yeah."
  }
]
