[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:50",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] so that side of the building is for the is G you should stretch out on CT sleep [Music] good morning this is the PCU session okay let\u0027s start but the usual not well remember that the IGF has IPA rules please buy them forget that anything say right here is recorded and involves C\u0027s as you seen as a contribution from the 80s perspective yeah it should be going through so you know process we are through a lot here so we try to have a look at job or participant questions what you have to remote presentation so work as expected if you come to the mic or to the presenter mic please make sure to use it correctly and we have pink cross over here down make sure but you know even the cross when you present for the video to be recorded properly so as you noticed you John stepped down from his chair position so this is the opportunity for me to thank him again I wasn\u0027t there last time but I already told him directly we hope to see him again VHF maybe not as rigorous is a before oh we have now two rookies who just on me first one on my right his drive I think that if you put on a newcomer tie on your badge you certainly know already so is Adrian but it needs quite fun to maybe someone who\u0027s been the motorist excited to serve "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:51",
    "text": "as a soldier in to help to to solve to two topics one of them is the transitioning for drove who is involved or used to be involved on many documents in the group so to is this transitioning in a step by step basis Adrian will be able to to act on ensure that the load is properly balanced because before he leaves for for drove and second goal help flushing some of the cues we have for the PC document so we hope that this will progress quite efficiently and the in term is to see everyone stepping down from his position before the next ATF meeting Montreal as you may be aware there is an Asian responded by ETF quite recently it involves the world so working group from the routing area and ETF it was a response to Qt communication which came a while ago we roughly just include some of the recent PC document there to make sure the AG which is aware of the walkway with progress a shorty minor on using the main list will have again this time multiple draft that came out without any discussion on the list just sometimes and not each time announcements and the mailing list please remember that I first want to progress the work is the mailing list don\u0027t wait for a meeting to discuss draft issues and try to send message as much as possible on the list among the new things we\u0027ve got the wiki so I can want by Mexico shell for that too one of them suggested the other one make it real so there is a wiki page that has been which was there is been greatly improved to include all the tombs and all the commands we manage the good thing is that anyone can update it so if you have a document that which significant milestone pass something and that would share are late in updating the wiki you might do it yourself so try to make the best use of it on I think we have good tool to start with on this wiki you may be aware also that in the routing area there is an implementation policy discussion we have to decide how we will manage that for the PC working group "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:53",
    "text": "will certainly start a discussion on implementation policy over the mailing list or in the coming weeks we have to talk all together on decide what would be the reasonable way to end an implementation policy for the PC working group yet gender anyone wants to bash something look standing over the road nothing to do okay um let\u0027s start the status of all our documents so these are the documents that are beyond the working group we have no new RFC\u0027s since Bangkok but nothing to despair you can see there is a lot coming your way we have two documents which are in RFC editor queue both are pending a mr. f1 from a document from spring and another document from PC itself which is the gmpls and that\u0027s the next document in the drafts with is G which is on the telly chat next week which is the gmpls piece of extension so who is happy to see finally this going through apart from that we shipped various documents to is G in the past one past months there\u0027s they say there is stateful P to MP her I key extension applicability of PC and a CTN a very important document Association group which is being used and they are a bunch of other documents which are built up on the generic Association group and yesterday with the help of John we also shipped the inter area ace applicability document so bunch of documents have been sent to the as she so also request authors to when the document goes to the is JB please responsive when the comments are posted and let\u0027s try and resolve those comments from the direct rate as well as from the from our 80s quickly these are the early code pointer locations which have been done in the past luckily all these documents have been sent to the SG so there is nothing to worry and most of the things will be taken care of matically this errata that you see is is been pending from the last last idea of meeting but finally we closed it it was raised technical but after discussion we decided that\u0027s actually an editorial and we fixed the our BNF issues and this errata is now closed and verified now moving to working group documents which are near last call we have one document which is waiting Shepard report this is the auto bandwidth document we had a change in the personnel for Shepherd that\u0027s the reason for this to be pending but we plan to act on it pretty soon there is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:54",
    "text": "an ongoing last call for stateful HPC which will end next week so this is also an opportunity that if you care about this please respond we have not seen much response for this on the list yet so please do that and and this will also help us chairs to make sure that yes there is enough consensus in moving this work forward what you see is the at the bottom is the working group glass called Q so this is the Q in which we will start progressing the next set of documents two of them are related to Association protection and diversity and one is a simple stateful extension which allows PC to take control over LSP so these has been discussed in the past extensively and they are almost ready so this is the Q for your information and you can find all that information in wiki as well so please keep checking to know how your work is progressing okay so these are our rest of hard-working group documents this time we asked everyone to update the status in the wiki most mostly I made the update and I think everybody was happy with that update because nobody came and shouted at me so this is what I have put on the slides as well if you have disagree you still have an opportunity to come up to the mic and correct the status so we have an association policy document there is no update and there is no pending actions from the author\u0027s as well there was an update made for Pisa flowspec based on the dis between the last meeting and now the main thing that we would require here is we need to gather more implementation experience for this document so if you are if you have or if you are planning to implement this please reach out to chairs provide some information on the implementation part this is a very important piece of work so we would like a little implementation feedback as well next document which is the piece F yang we send this document for only yang dr. review my ish provided those reviews during the week I posted the updated version I\u0027m still the editor for this document and still back and forth you would have seen their messages going on to resolve this quickly but this document imputs lot of other documents which are still not RFC so anyway we would have to wait for those document to progress before we can take piece F yang to RFC publication final we have bidirectional this document was also updated based on the comments that were received on the mailing list basically mainly from marina and this document is also progressing quite well next we have set of documents which are on the agenda today the one that I wanted to highlight "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:54",
    "text": "was the stateful gmpls we made a request to the authors of stateful gmpls and remote initiated gmpls if these two documents can be merged and luckily we reached a conclusion and that will be presented as well in the so I will skip that for now and other documents the three that you see on the top they are all on the agenda so let\u0027s get them and then we have documents which are not on the agenda which is PCL SP scheduling again this document is progressing well but needs a little bit more implementation feedback so please provide that we have two recent documents that we adopted since the last meeting one is the PC flex grid and all the comments that we received during the adoption call those have also been handled so that\u0027s very good to see that the document already has a zero one version which handles those comment and we have SRV six document that we are adopted we are still awaiting a zero one version that handles the comments that were raised during the adoption call this is the pull queue adoption pole Q that the chairs believe that based on the last couple of meetings that there is can there is enough information for to us that we can start the adoption poll so we have the VN association pc c c sr and the binding said which is in your adoption poll Q so please look out for these documents if you this is also good don\u0027t wait for adoption poll if you have comments on these document reach out now let\u0027s fix them and resolve them quickly and that will be the status so if somebody has a disagreement on any of the working group status or want to add some information this is your time going once going twice and thank you while we try to run the slides as inyoung your first presenter good morning everyone I\u0027m young I think as true explain this one is actually a merger of two draft PCE pizza stay for PC gmpls extend RFC 82 31 Adrienne donor is no laser in and this this draft is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "basically extension to cover stay for PC for gmpls and there was another RFC 8281 which is called PCE initiated LSP set up in a stateful PCE this one is basically you know PCC delegation controller locally configured LSP to PCE and this draft is extension for gmpls and I think this draft is quite mature and likewise this one but I think working group chairs felt this might just merge together for the benefit of reducing the process overhead and so on so we basically merged that the second draft into the first one because first one covers with a bigger scope and we published the published version and ready for working of Lascaux I think through mr. Dutchman Sheppard\u0027s right and I believe I deflected your comments on the first one before more 0 and after mojo you have some comments to make it smooth as if you know you suggest earnest to similarly now so that it\u0027s one document rather than merger of two documents me just clarify this is true but much is done we now just need to make sure that the document feel as it\u0027s a one document and not a disjoint two documents which I just put in one place so just a editorial pass and movement you do that since this document was already in the working group last you it will go back into that queue and we can even let you know get it a little bit more higher preference than the other documents that were added later one thing that I would also suggest is that the state a normal gmpls piece of extension is also in the is G so please look out for any comments that you that we received there and align this work with it so just also keep looking for this thing in the next week so once you finish that I think it\u0027s back on the cable okay as I don\u0027t see any question from the room we move to next presentation by how many okay this is how me speaking and I\u0027m going to present of this work is extension to the PCE communication protocol for he has Tara and notification so this is a road work so let me go through something background "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:02",
    "text": "because this work has not been presented in recent nursing five or six years so we need to emphasize again that we need this work because this is motivated by that we issue the address Eric how the handling issues between the PCs originally in the fifty forty I feel you there is ever code that sniffing handling process SS in between the PC and PC C\u0027s but this one is a kind of more intricacy needed and we also try to review all the error code has been become defined in so far in the working group and we also define how to process between the PCs so we assume that every draft to who has been working on the multiple pcs in areas including McCann be multi layer or multi domain or hierarchical whatever so we need to specify okay whether we should handle the errors in this way and this work was studied in 2010 and the doctor in 2012 so some of the authors I ever don\u0027t know but it is now reactive we still alive again and so currently I feel that there are quite not many attention so and but we believe this one is still necessary so I\u0027m presenting here to draw your attentions to take a look at this one so what\u0027s what\u0027s in the trust actually we have specified two different section one is forever handling and the other for the notification so error handling will we have two separate objects and we decide whether we propagate this kind of error yes or no and what is a critically critically T level of this kind of error can be low middle high so we will comprise the existing every County to all the combination of the propagate categories and there\u0027s a credibility level classes for notification part it would be a little bit simpler and it only need to notify whether it is a local or it\u0027s a kind of best request the specific so here we provide very detailed handling rule how to allocate the propagation value and the critic ability level for each given PC era a clarification question what do you mean by on demand here all the bound a is a kind of we have not specified anything it\u0027s a first time for example if the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "class 11 the quick particularly is recommended to be low that\u0027s the propagation you can decide whether you want or you don\u0027t want basically you want unspecified as the right word like we are not giving a specification you can put 0 or 1 based on your requirement right so actually this is not exclusive and seem because some of them have multiple values depending on the urgency or some kind of that and yeah another motivation with we we had to present here is because we have some quick check on the existing path and this will definitely impact as a kind of work and we are assume all of the works will be good and some of the inter PC we assume that we need this kind of error handling but we currently don\u0027t have it so far so this is some potential comments there can be but I just find a issue here I wasn\u0027t aware the first one is an informational one so the objective is to have every multiple PC related craft in standard track to have this kind of descriptors in session indicating whether the new arrow types would be needed and how the propagation type and critically Atilla tea level would be encoded I mean are you expecting that the authors of drafts will do this in which case you may be ambitious or will you talk to the authors of the drafts and help them by suggesting text yeah we can do that offline and I can but I believe this part should be in the separate in their cosmonium draft are not present in the draft so we\u0027re looking forward to see some discussions or whether this is kind of agreement we can reach in the working group to do the error handling sessions in corresponding drafts it\u0027s certainly an important work but yeah we have too many important works so it may not be an urgent one I agree but I\u0027m just wondering one - I want to understand from the working group whether this kind of inter PC publication may have this kind of dependency all this work if yes it may become more urgent than before and we\u0027re also disclosing discussing how to close this work because everything current so far is stable and we hear requests for the working group to have a some attention have some review and we are preparing for the last call of this work "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:04",
    "text": "that\u0027s all for presentation comments please any questions while we are waiting for someone to stand I second what Adrian is saying I suggested that earlier as well that let\u0027s just provide text on the mailing list to these authors that I would like you to add this section and this is the text and if they disagree then we really are seeing that your your work users the people that you are writing this document for if they are not convinced that this is needed then yeah I think our work is not going to be that successful but we know that there are a lot of documents HPC is there we have one document today on the agenda as well so maybe we can use this time also to talk to them and see if the error codes that are being defined there are the mechanism what is the criticality level and this can also be specified now at least and all the new documents that are coming through and we have our ad yes Deborah I would like to suggest since you have now wikipage possible you could put some other guidelines there and this would be very useful security considerations would be useful that would really be helpful so let me try to confirm whether the last item here can be consensus D in the working group saying that we only focus on those kind of not spoke PC related crafting standard FAC so I don\u0027t think we need to specify too much on the informational or a single PC you want I think you\u0027re all right about not needing to do too much but I don\u0027t think that\u0027s nothing so I the comparison I would make is with security considerations an informational document is not going to need to do protocol specification for security but it probably points out security issues and I think the same thing here so the an informational Monte PC thing might just have one line that says this is multi PC so it also consider thank you thank you [Music] we\u0027re moving to the United I presentation by each oh yeah all right her just to give some description for appetite habitation for the PC PC extension for the networking so here are just the what\u0027s the proper role for the PC peace a prejudgment were your PC to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:05",
    "text": "assist an assist our traffic engineering our network network network so here we proper to UM TCP facility for two reasons first is the PID MPP pure dynamically and rapidly sir the secondly the proper popular different prefix epithelium certainly is many clearly to the past each evening kapa on demand based on the network consider is this is main aim for the for the released protocol release drugs and the employers document the way just the propeller suite please have object which is charity the PC in this LSP request the following is real detail of project but after we discussed with our observed her least physically attention for PC controller proposed the PCC architecture for the for the instruction controller instruction download so we think peace and unity IP network held also some flavor of the pieces is a character so we after discuss with each page of with other also of the job that we had to take the similar procedure to proton is a kinky object so here we just the proper define my new and since I objected type and I put the information into unity newly defined the CCI object as it was Subterra way so the main content of the way not trained here is the key field the first day the apparel will be downloaded appear IDs and IP address the second is previa courses in PPA what we were terrible idea NOS circita prefix the shoulder is for a PR for your magna purely deposit will next hopper towards a PT PP R so here we just look for some comment Australian for the newly proposed and clearly especially from the implementation will point we also considering the the future called reason between the commander from with tradition on it nakum young or Sarah and the dynamic piece aybe protocol so this is all for the application any comment question thanks agent has this been "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:12",
    "text": "circulated to the idea of working group not for them to work on but so that they know we\u0027re doing it I just ascended the the leader person to for DeMeo these document oh sure and also discusses the medium of line of our solution so maybe just having a back of your head periodically just to send an to their mailing lists just to say don\u0027t forget we\u0027re doing this work because we clearly it\u0027s related to how BGP works yeah and we we need them to be aware out here I was just going through and I realized that in the teas working group all the related documents are experimental but in the PC we are aiming for this in standard track so is that is that the plan or is it just a mistake in picking the track but I think then we need to talk to T\u0027s yes as well that there the work is going experimental ideally I think we have oven there as well so you have any concerns no the two documents that we have both our own experimental track yeah there\u0027s there\u0027s no plan to move it out of experimental media so unless there is some feedback received here we don\u0027t see it getting out of experimental anytime soon so I put you on the spot as to why that\u0027s experimental there were a few reasons before adoption there wasn\u0027t much support for the document but there was some interest from a few people to see fair this focus so given the lack of interest and yeah we decided that was the best way to make take it forward how can he change the later yeah yeah and everything can change right right until versus possibly even after so I I don\u0027t see why this needs to be a scientist track until the problem yeah I would also prefer if this is remains experimental but I think it\u0027s up to the working group as well so I think we can take that discussion to the list as well that what should be the ideal track for this work another suggestion would be and first I would like to thank you for my personal comment that I gave that if instead of introducing new objects if he couldn\u0027t put it within the PCC architecture which you kinda greedy so which actually makes the document also much easier to follow the second comment "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:12",
    "text": "that I would have is without my chair hat on first time I said it that that we need some more description in the sense you have three different parameters one is to create dynamic bgp session another to put prefix which are in my point of view aiming towards the towards the end points but then you also have one more TL v which might be needed on all the nodes in between so that clarity is not there in the document right now we have justified the tlvs but we need to go a step further and explain the procedures and the interaction between piece F and BGP if there is any and error codes all those things so there\u0027s still a lot of work that needs to be done in clarifying itself that what how this will is actually used beyond what is the messages and what is the object thank you toppers beginners ad yet experimental just clarify what Adrienne said it\u0027s it\u0027s simply um that you can go through and publish it as experimental and then come back three months later five years later and take it standards track once you once this has some maturity you know it just so so don\u0027t worry that it it\u0027s experimental but what needs to be shown is interest maturity implementations that can be stable so I got a little more on this that the t\u0027s documents are more in the position that being framework and use cases so there I think the choice was experimental or informational here it\u0027s protocol said the choice is more experimental or standards track I think this whole question is going to come back to what the Russian group thinks about implementation status if we move forward but ultimately we don\u0027t have to make this decision until we make a publication request so when we go to the ad in section we have an RFC then we need to make a proper decision now it\u0027s just just it\u0027s just a flag thank you and now cross your fingers we\u0027re moving to a remote presentation the one on PC is central controller yeah yeah I could see you could hear me drew yes yeah well good good yeah well morning everyone this is Mahinda Meggie from India I just have buzz update on PC CC extensions these two IDs "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:14",
    "text": "quickly go through that can we move the next slide I think I\u0027m once I do yeah so just about background PC has a central controller the main RFC the architecture RFC is already published and we have basic PCC draft recently I\u0027m not adopted by PC WG and the PCC see Assad the specific to segment routing extensions for PCP it is in adoption q2 next slide roofies yes a major update on these two IDs are supporting binding sida location by PC and we are reusing the path binding PLA which is already there in use and PCC is a PCC a PCE request PCC to allocate binding level using this t path binding TLV so we are still using the same TLB bye-bye in which PCC request PC to allocate level by PC request message or PC itself can allocate the level and binding level and push to PCC so this we are reusing and the another one is PCC a location they label a location by PCC on PC PCC sees request so this one will see a bit in detail the first part we are just reusing the another part we will see in detail next one please are you seeing the dislike yeah yeah in this case in this case PC requests PCC to allocate label instead of having explicit you know control over pcc\u0027s level level range or level block so this we feel could be so disable the video and continue I think he\u0027s dropped off ok so save you time let me take over and of this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:16",
    "text": "without taking too much time so this is Ruth without the chair hat without the auto\u0027 hat just a contributor to this document and and so as Mahindra was saying that we have a see flag this flag basically says I\u0027m not gonna allocate the label but I would like the PCC to do their location on behalf of me and to do that I set the flag don\u0027t put the label value send the message to the node and node allocates the label and send it back to me so how does this work the PCC C goes to the egress goes to the egress says can you allocate a label for me but this is my instruction the egress allocates a label and reported back to the PCC see now at the transit you have two instructions one where you are specifying a particular label which is the green which is the out label and on the in label side you request the node to make their location and the node makes a new location which is the label yellow and kind of report it back to the PCC see and same thing happens at the at the ingress as well so in this way you basically have the label allocation going from egress transit ingress in a sequential manner this is different from the case that we were we had earlier in the draft where all the label management was done by PC CC itself so the things can be done in a more parallel fashion in this case labels are coming from the node so you have to do it in the sequential fashion from the back to the front the main reason why we added that in some cases it was difficult for us to know the delegation of the label space at the PCE for some reason because the node may not be in directly or control it could be a border router or it could be various different things so we wanted to allow ECCC to also just tell I would like you to execute this instruction but I\u0027m not specifying what be able to use you pick a label from your space and reported back to me that\u0027s the small change that the author\u0027s have done in this latest update so the question I think the yeah manga do you wanna place yeah yeah yeah yeah almost you finished it right yes [Laughter] yeah okay thanks for that so so authors you know expect comments on the the recent updates and feedback from other implementers and we have we request the adoption call for PC CC s our draft suit so any any question on this particular update case yes hi my name is Eric from juniper in the case why are you mixing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:17",
    "text": "the allocation mode from PC PC ECC and distributed on the device there could be cases where you have collision are you thinking of carving the label space like you know something managed by the controller or something managed by the device is that the recommendation and okay thanks my no you can answer but I kind of shake my head which we communicate by head movements yes yes yes yes you\u0027re right you know comment or question if not we\u0027ll move to the next presentation thank you oh the next one is a tune again well thank you thank you very much here thank you bye bye bye [Music] here I just probe negativism for the tckontis I give space and the culture [Music] motivation for this raft is you know the PC the pvp extension for PC controller specifies the procedure and protocol system for the PC Ellison controller so your label can be disappeared the town stands for device select any PC P and there are no draft deleted for the SR deployment also specifies the procedure for a piece of Education for to Daniel is our label however the document assembly to the label around you to be used by PC you know and the second piece of approach it appears by the Samsung have some mechanism to spotted their hunger other situation from holdup identical location and the parity second epistle only the PC controller now your ID space reversely so in order to a local IT directly from a PC and the underlying he says it should be so the under under under Isis control ice-t space and twenty pieces this is the main motivation for the draft this is a hurry the message flow for the fully staffed so forth allocated in the controller control IT space the delete your ID ID especially on away must be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:17",
    "text": "included you know open up message and for each each each carrot hope it should be included once you note message currently we can consider mainly that token the theory for the first day\u0027s labor contrast based and here in the second area is only six function ID control space TR away this is the format of the control lever controls bestie only and he\u0027s a chance to describe a block as the start while you\u0027re under around you so after knowing this controller space your PC can assign the label such as the bride incident I said formerly the space the second is SLE six songs ID control ID space is he handsome your structure is for materially her he defines the valid is no say mattifying the hello Frank to indicate the look with her either exists or not so if this is a fact easily flag he said then look at her tyranny associative incision look at her fulfilled our societal regarding creating that is the order if it not said then it will not increase again survey her listen the carpet we just element a flake let\u0027s define the universe which after the the main aim of a flag adjuster until indicated pc-12 dedicate all space to look easy but after his cousin is such a scenario not really common so it is a very increment the PC needed to define the labor want you to hold it pcs or it is not necessary for this flag and the secondly the we under your culture problem under Cisco and with other small needs so the experiment may only see missing the meeting in function you can\u0027t PC and GCC and is all related after so convexity inquire useful for the derivative work so is asking for a comment and the question walking adoption any comment from the room I went question related to the previous one in your other document currently PID is flagged as experimental can we confirm this is on purpose the Eid "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:21",
    "text": "document is a experimental on the header instead of standards track this document is currently under experimental so Julian is asking what is the reason is that is that a thought behind making this document an experimental actually from always occurs first of all we choose the type of experimental because we think he\u0027s maybe no so easy for cold for dead track but if you want we can go for stair jack that would be better thank you for you must answer in a recomment okay so let\u0027s move on thank you the following one is Mike we don\u0027t clean yeah yes we can hear me okay great yes I\u0027ll be presenting this draft piece of extensions to support segment routing a policy candidate passed next slide please next slide so there\u0027s been three versions of this draft oh sorry previous slide there\u0027s a little bit of lag between the slide change so right now you are on history of the draft right yep so there\u0027s been three publications in this draft first we introduced the overall structure of you know tying the piece of LSPs into an association group to represent the SR policy in the second publication we defined the three TVs that signal the different policy attributes and the in the third or yeah in the third publication we just did some clarifications next slide please so the purpose of this draft is there was recently introduced this concept of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:21",
    "text": "segment routing policy which adds extra structure to segment routing it basically unifies kind of different candidate paths into a single SR policy and it adds the concept of color and other things and so piece up was lacking a way to signal this information so our current draft is meant to address this gap and piece up by allowing both the PCE and the BCC to signal these extra pieces of information that were introduced in the second routing policy draft next slide please so basically this is just like an overview of of the draft so we define a piece up LSP to correspond to a segment out in candidate path and the group of psi powers piece is tied into an association group and that represents the SR policy and the SR segment list corresponds to the P sub arrow and we define the TVs to signal these various values next slide please so this is the TV that gives the ID of the policy within the context of the headend so basically all the piece of LSPs that are within the same as our policy must have the same value of this govt and correspondingly OPA power speeds that are not within the same as our policy must have different values of this govt so this yeah thanks and this is the candidate path govt gendered path identifier too so basically it must be different among different candidate paths in the same as our policy excuse me so this this encodes stuff like the protocol origin and the originator in the case that the PCC may want to report "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:24",
    "text": "non PISA candidate paths to the PC for example if you have a configured candidate path the PCC can report that configured candidate path to the PCE and specify the protocol origin as configuration and similarly if you have a BGP te instantiated candidate path on the PCC then the PCC can report that to the PCE and set the protocol origin to be BGP okay next slide please [Music] and this is just the attributes of the candidate path that do not serve as the key and they I believe they can theoretically be even more during the lifetime of the of the PC powers b-but the previous other TVs must not be modified during the lifetime of the LSP next slide please so next step is we plan to initiate workgroup adoption and that\u0027s it that\u0027s it for the presentation time for questions question coming just interrupt so number of comments you\u0027ve been using to the policy terminals P term interchangeably I think you should put a big letter that one means another I mean no I mean policy s our policy is a group of piece of LSPs that\u0027s how so as our policy equals P sub Association that\u0027s what like this if you go to the overview slide the number of places where you specifically sr l SP term so s our LSB yes is that like in the actual text of the draft let me get my gloves okay yeah well I think if that is the case we will correct that it shouldn\u0027t it should be P sub L SP not srl SP any thinking about using binding seats in case where you cannot instantiate LS space / policy / "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:24",
    "text": "and to end binding Sid should work as before like there is no we do not kind of add any new process for the binding SID so binding said this still belongs to the P sub LSP which for us is a candidate path so so basically it\u0027s the same the turning point might not be the same as end point where bagging shit would be expanded to reach again if you cannot push enough labels instantiate full policy sorry could you clarify the question I didn\u0027t think I understood the question so you\u0027ll be human SDS one of the constraints to compute the path right if you cannot push enough flavor then you shouldn\u0027t be doing it and you\u0027ll know your MSD a time of computation right so you might decide to use binding Sid instead in order to segment the tunnel okay I think what\u0027s happening is that all you\u0027re saying is valid but it might be there in the normal SR document itself because this document is not talking about how to compute the candidate path and what computation to can consider it is talking about when you have multiple candidate paths how to group them into an SR policy using an association object understand however yes lower when you implement it it should interwork yeah it\u0027s sure I think you\u0027re putting a right hook that yes it should into work in fact I wanted to also ask the room that one thing that the document currently says also is that they assume that within a candidate path they have only one CID list and but the SR policy allows a candidate part to have multiple set lists so there is still lot of work to be done in this space okay point thank you thank you making that you point I also wanted to use this opportunity to like you know talk to the all the author\u0027s working on s our document spatially make sure that the there is some alignment between BGP work and the piece of work recently we had come in from Tariq earlier also while we were progressing s our document there were some issues between the some flags are different between the two documents and they share the authors between the BGP and piece F so we request specially those authors who are involved in both documents - please help in making sure the alignment is there thank you yeah I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:28",
    "text": "think the next one is Michael my question is related to candidate paths now can PCC initiated and PCC initiated candidate paths can coexist in this yeah absolutely the protocol origin can be set to piece piece up if we go back a couple of slides if we go back a couple of slides please the question I think we can move on yeah thank you yeah thanks you okay thank you we move to the next presentation then which is change I\u0027m chun-li from Horry and my topic today is about a suppose segment and my bad Russian oppose in p-set and I won\u0027t repeat the whole details of the draft assume that you have read the jobs already since I have presented these for several times so let\u0027s let me repeat the motivation why we do this first of all in other words you know use cases like n 2 n + 1 + 1 and pass protection and and like bi-directional pass correlation we need the power segment you identified as a path especially in as I\u0027m Pierce network so we proposed a draft in spring to change it instead and recently these charts has been adopted as I each F working through a draft and then we also proposed a draft to introduce our segment in hobby 6 network so for allocating the power segment we suppose that the piece of extensions in piece F annotate right so we proposed this to document to describe the the mechanism to allocate the power segment and the use cases of by the rational pass a correlation so the mainly the bank updates of this document as we move the RSVP flag to PC allocation flag since we noticed that this flag can be used for multi for multiple use cases s such as biting seed allocation and power seed allocation some time some something like that so we we change the flag from post "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:32",
    "text": "segment allocation flag to a PC allocation track also this has been mentioned in PC ECC drafts already so just update to sync up and the second is we we adding we add some text to describe a mesquite consideration in the first segment an allocation so the rest is some the rest are some minor changes such as reference sync up and some needs so basically we add a new cause a junction from ZT to join this draft and for implementation status basically a highway is implementing this in PC and PC C products and I suppose that he is if he would do the same thing as well I suppose and the updates for this draft we basically we mentioned we described how to propose a new Association group to bite the the the s passed to be a bi-directional house in Assad networks and this term we we update the jobs to address the Commons from Marina marina and Chen Chen Xiang and and then we we fixed the the the earth based in figure which represents the direction of LSP from PCC point of view instead of PCE point of view and the others are some minor auditory changes also we added Chen Chen shown as a new Corsa and next plan since the draft stable for a wire so we suppose that we are ready for working through adoption because the commercial delivery are going on and and this mechanism are this mechanisms supported by the operators and vendors so so we click request the hooking group adoption just like we did in on the mailing list and comments and contributors are very welcome thank you question carick from Jennifer so it\u0027s about the terminology actually SR path LSP and what is it everyone oh yeah I Candida path or maybe segment list that\u0027s what I was looking for segment list so could this be the segment list ID for example mm-hmm or is it the LSP ID or is it what basically the past maybe we just need terminology the past document can be useful identifier see "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:32",
    "text": "least Oh Canada pass Oh as oh and as a policy as you want the way I understand it is the candidate path can be many segment lists yes so how can you identify with one path ID many segment list for example there are two parsec Canada pause within as a policy and then we use one candidate path many segments lists one can infer many okay so I suppose that you okay from Cisco so it depends on the use case right it\u0027s a path segments depending on your use case you can have it for the whole policy or for the candidate pack or for the segment list so the it defines the concept and how you allocate it it it\u0027s based on how you want to use it yeah exactly okay maybe expand on this in the draft so that it\u0027s well understood and I think the right place for that would be the spring document where this thing is defined thank you thank you anyway any comment that\u0027s it thank you last time when this was presented I think John asked the question that we will progress this work once the spring working group has adopted so luckily that has happened so I think this would also be a right time for us to see whether in the PC working group whether we should adopt this work so do you give for one of them that before other or do you want both of them what\u0027s your preference I suppose the boost of them would you like to expand in it sorry would you like to clarify why she\u0027s the perfect man is the basic mechanism for allocating the segments in this set and this is the basic solution and then the key use case for post camp our segment is about the rationale post correlation and those two jobs has been stable for a wire so I suppose that they can be yeah yes so it sounds reasonable so we\u0027ve got these now in the wiki in in our pending queue and then we will move them to the pending so there are there are a few documents for adoption in the queue before then yeah we should be rippling them up okay understand but working group that does not prevent you from making comments now you are allowed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:33",
    "text": "to read the drafts and talk about them no problem thank you so that\u0027s all thank you [Music] okay so this is a summary of the latest change in the draft that has been presented it\u0027s actually merging to draft one which was focusing on the state rule will enter the main PC on the chain bizzy\u0027s a new RPC like approach under the one which was focusing on the euro Kiko method pools are addressing very similar problem space inter-domain a mistake for pc context so we managed to match pose it to a common document on the point that it clearly clarified where the various approach that can be under there there have been some improvement also we know draft itself verification fixes correction context we believe that the text now is quite clear to be considered for further move welcome to my little show your interest there was a major change in the section number 6 on the selection between VP te and segment booting types when for a yes type the the chain of also this was piece of key information which was part of the draft and it\u0027s greatly improved now we still believe that there is a hot topic behind this problem statement there are some proposals at heart trying to address some data synthetic connections or all those good fit that benefit from this solution we see also some interest coming from the community when it comes to combination stitching nesting by ninive pass type of pass or tunnels from a mix of meteors emigrating we also noticed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:33",
    "text": "that there are some common ones on proposal even though it doesn\u0027t fully addressed our problem here it\u0027s also a bit connected and we felt that the full picture wasn\u0027t fully there so we propose to refine the solution to the problem coming here in for social I see someone queuing you have a question for me okay pressure technical solution that has been included in the graph is one option we believe it was reasonable enough because so far it doesn\u0027t extend the protocol at all it just allocate I propose to allocate some new code bite over existing registries and those footprints are triggering behavior that are defined properly in the draft of course is working with feels that this is a problem we want to work on has a working group any other alternative option to specify the way to incur those is follow up on it is the solution that we consider reasonable for the first step others are possible on hopefully if we adopt I will talk more about the details of whatever the idea is to work on the problem define how it behaves also work on your calling and then consider that the proposal coming here are the only way even though the good news is that we have an implementation using those including you is that it\u0027s not the commission of the rotation so it will be updated according to any modification of the specified own career if the draft becomes working on the um if you want if you are interested there is a YouTube chain on YouTube content that you can click onto to watch the demo firmly so currently the draft as far as our concern is really for what will be production Oh since it\u0027s too late working to join the queue for orkut interruption there is a technical solution to the problem knowing that is not fixed it\u0027s open to discussion for any further work it\u0027s applicable to stay for context but we try to keep this pair autonomous system policy naming that I mean yes can evolve using SVT signaling maybe one may use second routing it allows to combine boss on a common service into n with the two technologies and there are some interesting use case on the road so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:34",
    "text": "request to join the walking a bit from Q question alright this is Adrian proving we need three working group chair so Rankine chair or one present someone asks a question I have two questions is there an assumption about the end domains and and whether they are under the same administrative control or not there is no on the contrary the RPC based approach was built on the assumption that different as opposed to be working alone who usually on that in situation where you have a common entity controlling all the child\u0027s the children you know pc-like approach doesn\u0027t assume any client server or parent or child relationship it\u0027s a flat which if you like approach like in the autonomous systems over Internet second members are you aware that there\u0027s a document in Bess on rather it\u0027s it\u0027s a bit suspiciously called domain gateway discovery but actually it\u0027s much more about how you get end-to-end connectivity similar to the picture that you\u0027ve got on that slide with the additional thing of finding out what the points of attachment are from those edge domains to the transport motor oldest one but something definitely need to talk is that\u0027s approaching last call okay good to know I talked to the best chair and a question for the chair has everybody in the room sign the blue sheets thank you good morning everyone I\u0027m then promised a te the topic I want to talk is P CEP Ignace for parity in Ferguson yes this this document specifies a consistent to the past compute PC sorry this document specify citizens to see if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:35",
    "text": "he that allow a stem for PC to compute and initiate the path for the beauty extensions in our draft we have defined for in for his essence the first a spear Kappa the world Testament we define a new path set up time for beer and that they find the beer te PCE capability slapped your way to exchange fear capability the second reactant a P and a sappy object they find a new path set up type property the throw is in points object there are two of options the first is we use the P 2 MP and points object protein for ipv4 and ipv6 which depend in FZ 83 the road six and depend on the the other option is to find a new pier and point object to can reach a PFR IT informations the last a tenth year or object with defines a new and imperial or sub objects to carry artists assist with strength psi au sub domain and si yes this is the details of the existence for beer capability the world has meant for extensions beer capability yes a new path setup type and the beauty PC capabilities of Jia Wei are required to form it is below and this is a key as a key object the order to set up a beauty a new path segments a setup type TL way must be content are key as we object the which means passes said huh Buren beer T this is the endpoints object for specifying the beer information of the past for which surpassed computation is required requests and the points object is required they are two of since we use the PDMP endpoint object called a for ipv4 and ipv6 which city we tilted finally up c8 stress there were six optional a we defined a new peer and point object for peer 4pf ID the format is below account in the contest leaf type sauce tfiid and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:38",
    "text": "one or more destination PA parties yes the last a yahoo object for carrying the beauty explicit passes a new period are all sub object is required at the contest PS they are sub domain as i and associate a bit stress for PSL the max last of of the biggest tree is 5 in turn it in the it indicates the last of rapid train is Westerlund 24 because because tellin ya all object which defined the length is limited to 2 8 bits so we limited the max the value of psi to the 1020 base in case the beer euro sub object is too long\u0027 yes next step comments we work a welcome and wish think that we should kiss ASSA is to the extent 8 for peered he is needed and the way well the next walk we we would like to add this this part where chrome option hope to enjoy our work this how it may be another rough days ok yeah any comments from anyone I was in the beer working group where this document was also presented yes and then I further talked to the beer chairs as well I think BHS suggested that this work it should be done in within the PC working group so that\u0027s something that I need to further talk to my chairs as well and conclude and the second point also that came up was that there is the yang work that is going on in the beer working group so what they suggested the Bayeux chair suggested since the beer yang work could be the key reference for us when we develop the PC PC extensions and most of the things that is there in the yang can be used as a reference when we are developing the PCF protocol so that there is alignment between the yang work as well as as well as the piece of extension that\u0027s something that we might need to consider I\u0027m not hundred percent sure how to work that thing out but that\u0027s something that we can take into consideration the short answer on itself thus far has lots to do this beer it\u0027s especially for beauty and about ambiguity should specify a number to Young\u0027s mother for beer is not going to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:39",
    "text": "include beauty so the Youngs model is going to be to be defined in future and I agree it should be cool aligned between acid Jeff there is a tiny bit of a confusion there I also was confused by that point so what has happened is that there is a beer yank there is a beer tae-young and then this document as presented is only for beer teehee but DCCC for beer could be for a location of bfr IDs that can include both beer and beauty so that\u0027s why there is a bit of overlap happening there but it needs to be clarified right now it\u0027s a bit confusing yes Lou burger this is actually more of a comment for the beer working group but since it keeps coming up I feel like I have to say it this is a yet another case where we\u0027re having confusion over terms so we went through this with spring now we\u0027re going to go through it with beer that we\u0027re really talking about your policy and past steering and that\u0027s what what the terminology that we that we have at spring and it\u0027s this it we\u0027re providing the same function with beer here we should be consistent in that terminology and the nice thing is is the person sitting to your right is yet Adrian who\u0027s trying to duck is actually helping us through an update on the what te means in the IETF so this is going to be a great topic I look forward to seeing his future document on the topic that well make it so we stop having the same conversation over and over again so policy and past steering when we\u0027re not doing the resource allocation is that what least what we\u0027re using in spring and in teas son isn\u0027t he mmm I just still want to clarification as a discussion just happened because they\u0027re te can be used to resolve beer so it\u0027s a separate two things yeah believe me so you can use PC ECC to allocate tfiid for peer and the also you can allocate the agency ID for peer te yes it can be used in peer to the ECC and but as this document is the extension for purity pass steering so it can be used to calculate the pass impurity but not in peer uvr we needn\u0027t calculate as a pass yes so it\u0027s the difference yeah the good thing is we are in agreement thank you thank you it\u0027s funny to note that more people get involved when it comes to beer okay I think we\u0027re done for today thank you everyone for attending the session tomorrow hopefully "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:48",
    "text": "Thank You Pam where\u0027s the other blue sheet please "
  }
]