[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:56",
    "text": "so we are going to start maybe we can close the door if someone at the back of the room can please go and close the doors so this is the six dish meeting for those people who want to listen to BGP that\u0027s the wrong room and this is the new not well so it\u0027s kind of the same as usual so you need to remember that if something is being discussed and you\u0027re worried about IP are you need to please let us know after the chance after the meeting and then please go through this slide I won\u0027t spend the time but all the contributions to the IDF including this what is being said in this meeting and on the mailing list must follow the rules in RFC 53 78 and RFC 81 79 please if you\u0027re not too sure go and read those heiresses this is a official meeting minutes will be taken we have two minutes takers thank you guys and and two helpers on the chibok as well we are taking the minutes on the fly on etherpad so there is a on the data tracker agenda there are number of buttons associated to the meeting and one of those buttons give you direct access to these are pad otherwise the link is written on the bottom of the slides here so if you can please go to each our pad and if you said something for instance you may vary date that the minutes are taken correctly and reflect what you in turn need to say okay or if you want to participate to the mean taking that\u0027s only appreciated so we go through the agenda we\u0027ve got quite a full agenda today so we will be giving a summary of the FF and drop test which happened Friday and Saturday and the Agathon activity as well then we go through the almost complete items which relate to scheduling so the scheduling function sorry for the typo here at scheduling function zero and the sixth up protocol and then we\u0027ll dig into the security of Iraq so that will be two main items that will be Manish are talking about the minimum security which is mostly done piece of work and then Michael will come and present to us the status of design team and if you can address a little bit the street Rostova Michael and then time committing so we\u0027ll use the rest of our time for those those drafts we\u0027ve got a new scheduling function that Simon prisoners then Jonathan will talk about the exam of the 60s example JoJo\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:57",
    "text": "will talk about replication and elimination so that\u0027s a technique that\u0027s being discussed at that met and this draft shows how we can apply it on six - and then later we\u0027ll talk about an expiration expression time which is an activity that is happening at six low but he will be giving us a short summary of what\u0027s going on there and Bob since you\u0027re here IDF to us but we have an a OB Bob by please we get some AOL be time I was just wondering if you could please during the a OB come up and tell us a little bit about what\u0027s happening at the I Triple E these days oh thanks so much it\u0027s a big surprise right okay so confirm that are not takers are in the room so Dominique I don\u0027t see yes so perfect why can I hurt you okay so there we go we already start and we start with two announcements so we have to arrive sees one of them comes out of this group I don\u0027t know is very very related so the first one is thanks to Terrell thanks Tara for doing this work now we\u0027ve got a ITF information element that is officially ours from from the Acholi identified five right implementers i give i ee i ee d IE 5 and L and last but not least congratulation to the others in particular shave you did the bulk of the addition we now add the RFC number for the minimum support for 60 so that\u0027s reader the core result of this working group so far yeah okay and now if we look at our milestones and it\u0027s good that Suresh is with us there is an interesting thing is we did not update the my stunt with like the security work so we really need to work on that apart from that yes so yeah go ahead and do it and I\u0027ll approve whenever it comes through four minutes and then we are little bit late but not that late so we will discuss about the sixta protocol whether we we are ready for ASCO it appears that we are from my initial reading of the test that we were last week I said zero will discuss as well knowing that we are running for experimental for that one and then we will be talking about what we do for the security what we put into my stance okay soon enough now will be will have to decide what we do after the security work so maybe if we have time at the end in the AUB we can start thinking about what\u0027s next for this book and with this myght I will give you the floor and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:01",
    "text": "presenters you can please always stay here because you\u0027re on TV right so I am glad to report about the first half inter of 60 interoperability event that we have run on Friday and Saturday 14 15 July did event has been organized by ship and you should be able to see your slides in the monitor doesn\u0027t work thank if somebody knows how to switch on this monitor it is black and I was saying it has been organized by adhere list and it has been founded by develop Ian\u0027s Commission through the open Cola of NH 2020 project called the F Interop as usual we add the support of two company open most for the ad and open for the film with this time we had the fighter and I number of participated company 16 and we had also several implementation in particular we had the say 5 different implementation for 60 SH and 6 for Oscar so forgiving you an idea of the people that are organized and amid the the event here is a picture of God so all the people that came and we thank them for coming with their own implementation and of course we were not only people there but as you can see there were many shank that we try to connect and to let them work together just a brief overview of how the event was organized of course we got this grant for doping whole of the I think they\u0027re open and it was mainly listen decay taking care of these and we organized first meeting or WebEx beginning of July for a meeting with the company and discuss about the test description we had the test description little was prepared with editing Fame Alicia and at the same time there were some tests prepared are Sephora or scrap and they it was led by a Sanchez Colombini and as I said the event is organizing the context of a filter and so Remy act for the preparation of some 60 show online tool and I will talk more about this afterward about the tests that we wanted to run for this edition we focus mainly synchronization minimal because now it is a receive we wanted to check if it work and then sick sick stuff also and finally some security expected both at links layer and other related more to the joining function so overall as you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "can see here we had the 16 no test for 6p we checked several comment like a discount and for minimal we checked the format of the image be corner there are setup of the channel or finger the rotary my size and okie formula as I said did event run for one day in - we have a initial setup phase as usual and then three main texturization and on a Friday on Saturday after everything was concluded we had the finalization did it for giving you an idea of the fun that we had so as you can see that was we were happy to test the different implementation with many device connected again we had as usual the Wireshark detector that detects a lot and we gave a demo session on in tear of how to use it online tool I read that these pictures so thank you for putting those because last time we put pictures which involved mostly wires and people were asking whether this was a wireless event so you see we tried also showing because and we were Akito to test and validate the interoperability once we finished the test all the company involved were able to report the results of the test using a TST tool provided by Etsy and this is a very efficient it allowed to the and then compute easily the statistic here are the results as you can see it was a great success we had almost 86 percent of the tested and there were few tests that were not applicable mainly those related to to security and in particular all the success one confirmed that the advocacy eighty-one eighties of minimalism working and Interop a lately probably among the different phi d implementations all these was a great yes so Thomas can you go back into a previous title to be to be very very clear we try to not cheat because when so let me explain what did I say no what we do is last time we didn\u0027t kind of enforce this rule and if you do a test that it passes you\u0027re very happy to click rate or green if it doesn\u0027t work or you you you kind of don\u0027t click red so last time we had a hundred percent passing tests what we did now is we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:01",
    "text": "enforce the rule okay look if you if you try a test then you have to say pass or fail if it\u0027s fail it doesn\u0027t matter and if you come with an implementation which did not implement that feature and that we had you know eleven different limitations so it\u0027s normal that not every implementation gets that feature please press not applicable so the gray part here is that kind of gives you an idea of the percentage of what was implemented from the things and so I think this is a very very positive number you know two thirds of everything that we\u0027ve written was implemented by the different in addition which is very cool and from those implementations 86% of those passed so it was a was a fun event so as I said the practice was organized in founded in the context of the offender of a European project and for those that are not familiar it is an era piant project that they aim to develop the sama online testing tools that are available on a shared platform and the aim is to be able to run interoperability a test while staying in without the need of being all in the same place so the idea is that you can be in your own species you can have your artwork there and through an argent you connect remotely to disciplic for my end to the testing tools that are available on internet right now there is a quite a big number of tests that the platform already provide or anyway will provide in short term like six fish coop 6lowpan Laura or Oscar and of course the it would be great if you also contribute to the project and you add your own tests you come with the other proposition and this platform should be widely use and the will somehow become the instrument for running the interoperability event more often without the need of travel and the cutting costs so during the practice that we show with a demo how is a platform can be used for running for example ripple test and the idea is that in the next event we will actually use some these are online testfor for our sixties plug days so just forgiving the feedback of the event as I said already before it was a great success we had the very high percentage of successful test in particular for the mini mala now Eric\u0027s three eighty one eighty all the implementation were working well and then for a sixth of the shots that we identify little detail that it would be better to fix and in the next drafts in particular for the add the common in the current version we usually reply with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "the success code with the empty cell lives when we don\u0027t have anymore cell available to be reserved but actually we realize it will be better to use a no response code filled with empty cell list and then in the case of a generation mismatch right now in the draft we are documenting to send a clear yes I think I have a question here state your name please I\u0027m from India according to the add command if there\u0027s no available one you returned no resource but for me no first versus can I scatter something but I don\u0027t have one more puffer for the slaughter rather than theirs so I think Charlie you you\u0027re going to present this and you have this list as well so thanks I keep the thought I think it you should discuss okay thank you and the same for the generation mismatch we are right now suggesting to send a clear but will be better to add their own technology so these are all feedback that after what a child will discuss so what we can say again it was a good success and we could actually see that there was interoperability that the drafts are in a good state of maturity and as usual the event at the inner progressing and a feeling of our the technology is now well implemented and it works so our next event as I said the aim is to use the online testing tool and to ever Aeromotive event we will fix a date we didn\u0027t decide yet it will be at the best as in other advanced of course feedback atre we\u0027d come by that time for sure the tool will be available the event will be still of annals in the context of the filter of project and we will make sure that there is enough information to know how to use the testing tool right now you can already log and try to use the digital there are either there also a feedback link so you can provide suggestion how to improve and to make so I wanna I want to stress how cool is this well right we tested everything from synchronizing 15 454 e secure joining and then scheduling function sorry Sixto protocol to schedule different nodes so this is you know we\u0027re we\u0027re almost almost services very cool to have seen this if you have any suggestions or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:04",
    "text": "comments about the event that we wouldn\u0027t do in the fall please let us know if you have any days that work or don\u0027t work for you one idea that has been floated is to have a an event again in a physical room with with our disciplines that are remote so of course Singapore might be you know a right right time frame for that so if you have any any comments please let us know thank you thank you might like that so think fade there you are you left right back so this is the hex on happening on Sunday and July 16 right here after the black test and the same participants you know that has to join that this hackathon event and that the goal is to go qkm funding the link and you can also check here so here is our outcome from the hackathon event there are four items the wines are integrator of open doors in stacking in red with that during the hack zone we are doing the temptation of the rather hardware driver code and also Creator opened up hoping the resident stack and use the two for integrating without reott so with this integration complete and open option now it can support all the major open-source implementations and during the hexan we also present to thy finger of a platform and we have some probe progress by updating the bootstrap of the test accession of the finger up platform it\u0027s more like flashing the hardware control rheumatory the testing device before the users really do that has the finger at the future of test before so also we have for progress on the joint security we refactoring the GRC code and also the key for the network it can be generated at the right time when the open visualizer is you need initialized this means the way we can start to the different network and with different network key so they won\u0027t influence each other so with this and the 460 show and uh of the with the security bootstraps "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:04",
    "text": "and now is in the open Dobson project and on the open doors insider we also do the housekeeping and fixing and clean up some the project ready to the open mode and it has the platform and I also complete said that it\u0027s on of a commission which is a OneTouch security through the Navi param param module and also we fix the Sun back from the repo we added the PIO and some configuration option in the repo dao packet and is referring to the RFC 64 fut and we this the for when the Western Kentucky can be interrupted thank you these were announcements thank you thinking okay so now let\u0027s move to the first section about dynamic scheduling so I think I remember correctly yes Travie your Europe cave is not updated about the sixth of protocol okay hi everybody I\u0027m presenting an update of the sixties protocol we are in version 7 the last update was last at the 7th of June this draft is pretty stable there\u0027s several implementations of it completely independent implementation supported in in vendor platforms and also enough in open source platforms we we\u0027ve test some of these implementations five different implementations on the 60 block test on the HC black test that last last Friday and Saturday uh-uh my goal today is just summarize what we\u0027ve been doing in the last in the last month and maybe ask for the workgroup last last call so during the last month we\u0027ve been updating some meaner problems that were reported by different reviewers Jonathan and Charlie\u0027s and us very exhaustive list of commands we addressed all of them we posted the responses to the mailing list we fixed some meaner things in some typos and errors on with it some reordering of sections to make it more clear and maybe remove some some text it was kind of not important or like repeated on what but we are now this is status that we are now on after the black test we have identified a couple of things that we want to comment on we want to see maybe your your opinion or if you can if your "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:05",
    "text": "your point in either here or in the mailing list one point is when we do a 60-odd the 6p8 command always returns a success and depending on on the outcome of the art of the add command it it responds a list of the cells that had been allocated for example if I issue an ad and I want two cells and both of them are allocated the response contains its circuits a success plus in the list of cells that it returns there are these two cells this is full allocation if I if I issue an ad but the receiver cannot allocate one of them but only one it returns that cell so I know its success and I allocated only one cell and if it if it none of them can be allocated then it returns success this is the current thing now but the list is empty so there are some complaints on the implementation saying okay buddy I need to look at the list and I know because of the size of the list is zero that I couldn\u0027t allocate them but this is a kind of a strange case because you are saying success but you cannot allocate any so the concern here is whether we have to use nor s response instead of or onea or another another code as as you indicated thankfully so that\u0027s one one of the possible things that we can improve I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s any comment on this so this is ten free from area so here is the no racers for me as beginning and saying if I preserve a cell like five maybe five is not occupied but my slot buffers is already full I cannot reserve you more so that case I return no resource so but in this case it\u0027s different from that so maybe they will get another resort a return code for this okay so you propose to have an additional return code for first yes yes okay if we so Tomas so if we add an extra return code for saying we have no space at all I\u0027m sorry no no a return code for saying none of those cells in your in your cell list satisfies us we might as well add another written code three for the same partial because I think we try to I mean the proposal of no res is to be able to reuse its return code so we might as well make some specific return codes it\u0027s we have one byte for the return code and we currently have like five allocated right so we have 255 286 I don\u0027t see any problem on allocating a couple more angry if we can make it more explicit even because someone detects that there\u0027s error codes that are ambiguous we can make them more or going off specific that\u0027s that\u0027s fine so hold it for you thank you yes let\u0027s get real "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:06",
    "text": "here if you make a new return code you need to have a behavior associated to it which is specific to this return Cal okay yeah thank you okay this is another point hum when when for some reason a generation error is detected you know when we maybe I look at cells and for some reason we lose an AK and then one side of the of the allocation fails and one side allocated cells but the other one not we have an inconsistency in the schedule so in this case in the current version we recommend that when this inconsistency is detected we just we recommend is not mandatory but we recommend to clear the schedule clearing the schedule can be very costly because and it\u0027s costly if we take into account that maybe you will lose only one or two acts so the proposal here is that to introduce a mechanism or change a little bit the behavior so we can try to correct that situation because we know that if we detected inconsistency it\u0027s due to the last operation we have it who have done it cannot be due to any other thing it\u0027s only can happen because the previous operation with it messed up or we lost an AK or we lost a packet and once one of the sides did not detect that so what we propose to cope with the situation and enable and it will be policy so we don\u0027t say how but we enable a policy to correct that problem is change a little bit the text on correcting or coping with generation errors and saying that when we have when we detect this error you cannot add or you cannot delete cells well you cannot add or delete cells but you can still the least encount operations will work will you will be able to send a list and count to your neighbor and then the return of these of this operation will tell you what\u0027s happening and then you can correct your own schedule with this result and then you can then tweet kind of cheat on the generation number and then stay in sync again so that\u0027s our proposal and the text we propose is the one in the middle the two bullets the first one and the last one are already in the draft and the one in the middle is if the code of the 6p request is count or least when I detected that generation error the node must execute the operation and return the requested values and this can be used despite of we have the generation error to correct the inconsistency so that\u0027s what we proposed we don\u0027t say how that we say we support that by listing and Counting we we can detect the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:08",
    "text": "difference in the schedule and then correct it you have any comments from implementers about this or I think there may be yet yeah this is a Tanaka from Toshio actually the the giant generation management the works very well they\u0027re actually too well so we at that time we just only thing that to issue the clear so my proposal is maybe sound a little bit too radical just throw away the general generation management so both peers can detect the the last transaction fares or not so each the time alt should occur when for example when the the pier cannot receive the the macaque or something it can be detector and also the count or list the command also the give your more information - how can I say to get back the the step the singleness the same schedule the cells so again my proposal is for weight enlargements that\u0027s I think that\u0027s easier but the huge impact on that drop the thing is if you if you drop this mechanism you are forced somehow periodically maybe to issue lists or counts to in order to see if everything is is correct which I think this is safer in terms of consistency because at the first action you do you detecting consistency and you can react quickly if not you can like the version yeah my point is the timeout could be used for I don\u0027t know more to force the list so if time out I force a list so so Thomas I have a I have a counter example and this is the reason why we put the the the counter in there generation the problem you know yes with Max and all that you can detect that something went wrong on the communication the only case you cannot detect is when an AK is lost so you try you send me a response I send you an act but you don\u0027t get the AK and this is your last retry McCleary try so I think everything\u0027s fine and you say that you think the whole transaction has failed so now what happens you generation has bumped your Jerusha has not bummed and so that\u0027s the consistency I think we wanted attack with that with that mechanism is that you say yes so I assume this cases you fully have full of this but you still don\u0027t agree and also "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:08",
    "text": "I detect the timeout because I didn\u0027t receive your ACK okay yeah I didn\u0027t understand let\u0027s so let\u0027s uh I think it\u0027s we have too little time to discuss this let\u0027s maybe have a little chat over the over the week and if not during the during the during the condom aeneas to to to make it as clear okay yeah so it\u0027s my last light on the next steps arm there\u0027s a little thing I want to do on its to clarify the use of the ITF ie in the draft now it\u0027s just a very very simple sentence I went I want to clarify how this II\u0027s use well how its encapsulated will be just one more line explaining how to use it and then resolve all these to black test outcome issues or problems that we have identified and then I\u0027m asking for a word group last call sorry it wasn\u0027t paying attention so so I think the changes are that we have identified we have to have this discussion for sure first the the the draft has been implemented in many times it works well I think we\u0027re very very close to having a final version I think we need to resolve the process outcomes may be bumped of revision republish this and then I propose that we have a workgroup last call add on the mailing list right after this 0:08 is published does that work yeah I would like to add that as you know this draft uses information element III happening at the Mac layer and that the hie is very very well that we are doing this and they have created a working test group 15:12 which is the equivalent of our working groups which deals with the link layer communications it\u0027s an LLC and they are integrating the concept of 6p as part of their design already so they know it exists they they included it in their design and I hope that charlie is here at the end of the room Charlie Charlie can you help me so so I hope maybe Charlie you can tell us a little bit more not now but at the end of the meeting during the i/o be if you can just tell us a little bit about the 1512 and maybe Bob will tell us more about what\u0027s happened happening globally in 54 but I\u0027m just saying that in our C\u0027s day and it\u0027s wrapping this this operation nicely so be prepared for question during the OB microphone please "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:11",
    "text": "I\u0027m just saying if you can during Jub talk a little bit about 1512 and all that relates to this work well I just came to the microphone to say that I didn\u0027t have anything to say so hopefully later this week I\u0027ll do that and yeah all right thanks a lot thank you let\u0027s not all follow that that pattern any more questions for Charlie before we move on you go for yours okay thank you mrs. Devoto company from Universiade reporters I\u0027m the editor of the item 66 of SF 0 this is version 5 they have published recently so the idea of this draft was to build a dynamic and distributed okay let\u0027s do this scheduling function it\u0027s not an accession now a lot of revision from from the Commission thank you I would like to thank javi and child and I thank Jean who have made a very detailed revision of the draft so I had some time to address every other comments so there\u0027s a lot of tickets we have the address so the next question let\u0027s see what happens okay I thank you frozen well have a collection of typos so I have some type of okay and every other problems we have so some expression is that in an extra text will be there so those are all the details I don\u0027t tickets if you want to see them exactly so I just focused on the specific tickets were to do the concepts and mechanisms that were defined on the assets Europe and and some movement a big movements off of text between them so the first ticket was 67 which does for the some a couple of sections okay this estimation algorithm allocation policy which were concentrated in the introduction mainly and just refer to their specific sections of their explain a little bit what was going on on what were their original ideas that were generated their second and 68th but the difference between allocated and use cells meaning that located on schedule cells that means we\u0027re trying to measure how many cells we are using from the ones which are already scheduled and this is kind of aware how to measure the ibaka usage of that and this is the only point we can sense and that there\u0027s a change and that we need to add react to that change "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:11",
    "text": "so that\u0027s why I added a definition pacific definition page and then the different is taken from one slot frame to the next one so we react in the universe not same time see so and we have have tried to clarify that we only work on transmission cells the XS from one neighbor to the other this is a neighbor to neighbor algorithm only then we are going to the over-provisioning okay there\u0027s a define and not like that\u0027s a clear definition whatsoever provisioning is and i think we have added a this definition in order to specify that we have a specific size of the of the number of allocated cells and we need are always a little bit more of cells to detect that we need more more space underneath most especially to satisfy a new request in the future and so this we are Hart officially locating more cells so they are using more that way what we need a little effect if there\u0027s a new requirement if we won\u0027t be letting sex without that that these cells were less okay there\u0027s no problem about it okay so we\u0027re going to attacked it anyway but we want to take more cells are required okay this is was the problem we wanted others on this time then about the relocation okay there\u0027s another one of the mechanism does that a zero are also also addresses is there a location of cells so location is clearly defined on the for III section of six P draft so which is the mechanization would I should first over there and it only decides when okay I said zero only it says when their cells should be relocated according to the packet delivery rate value so we make sure the hope the the average buckle give a rate of the whole scale that we have control on okay and there could be any many as functions working so they want the part which is belongs to this scheduling function we calculate the average and then we compare each of the cells we are using okay if there\u0027s an increase or decrease after a specific threshold and well and of course we have selected randomly we are going to win to keep this very simple so that\u0027s why there are main things right get random within the the dissection is just a random here there\u0027s no specific criteria how to define which cells are going to relocate use and there are no transmissions again okay we react only if the transaction was unsuccessful we only retry afterwards because a requirement still exists so there in order to keep it simple okay again we don\u0027t use the transmissions a we have kept only one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:14",
    "text": "trigger event so any change in the number of cells of you cells in fact is going to trigger this editing function under that and of course this estimation argument works again against a specific neighbor okay so we have a hub trap shall we check here the number of cells which are scheduled to each of the neighbors and the number of you cells against each of the neighbors so in case there\u0027s a change because once that frame and the next one we detected and react accordingly we were asked also to add a diagram how it works so there\u0027s a trigger event over there so we collect number of sides to understand which are the number of cells which is the number of sides in fact that we are willing to use we add the over-provision value know that two attacks in the future if you need more of cells or not and and then did we pass this value to the allocation policy as well they repair cells but so what happens our question was what happens when the over position is zero for example say if the provision is zero we cannot detect is there any more use cells if you are required if there and possibly that we generate a packet loss in the queue so that\u0027s one of the problems way of using another provision of zero so we just had a fixed value for our provision which is implementation-specific and then the the so there are two thresholds here the two values fact not result the over provision and SFC ofso then there\u0027s no relationship whatsoever between them we try to keep the both thus estimation algorithm and the and the allocation policy independent between them so even though the within the whole mechanism then maybe our established our relationship between them at the beginning or we don\u0027t define any any relationship between them so there\u0027s our own provision and there\u0027s to be a threshold at the design when we are going to change over to add more cells [Music] this location policy they won\u0027t define how many and the other way size decide when to make a change so about the cell list error handling so f 0 does not handle those errors meaning that we only if you if there\u0027s the only handle what we are doing okay if there\u0027s the unsuccessful we try again because the requirement is still active and this is of course I rather be chosen well they already knows that timeout value which were discussed in the previous draft we have the we have defined a per transaction timeout value because you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:14",
    "text": "are required to assess scheduled function however ok there were still under discussion apparently that if the time of value should belong to one site go to the app and the packet delivery rate definition there was no definitions beginning of how to measure the packet linear rate so it\u0027s calculated per cell okay as a percentage of the number of our knowledge packets okay as successful and noise mean of course and out of 10 the only fixed value within the whole track and there\u0027s no transmission of course there as I mentioned before finally the location policy mechanism there are the initial value of scheduled cells implementation specific then at least a sub 0 threshold number of cells must be allocated to each of the neighbours meaning that this is the initial value that we didn\u0027t define me in the meaning and the gear so at the beginning and we should be defining in order to start this and to bootstrap the process so they we need at least to have this number of cells to start the process and oops and finally if you have any questions about this thank you so I I have a question for the implementers in the room who has this implemented which implementations do have this SF 0 I think thankful you have it does come we have that before but doesn\u0027t notice abortion not diversion okay do who has any version of us have zero implemented is it yes taka a portal yeah I implement this one the two I think the previous I think the dust yes or last one or something the base on their quantity okay okay yeah so there are two implementations in in the room that have a zero and and have has anybody deployed is at scale and not just three nodes on a desk but but deployed is that scale and verified or measured how how good this works no okay so there\u0027s no answer so I think I think they go per our discussion you know yeah last IETF as well yes I mean these edit what you presented our editorial changes making things clear and we can keep doing this for ITF after idea verse right yeah right what is needed is is you know I\u0027m I\u0027m a company and I look at this and I say you know I have a smart dis smart that application is sm0 going to be good enough I mean how much you know if I switch on my notes how long will they take to join if I send it back it what\u0027s the average max min max Lane see how "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:14",
    "text": "much data we need that kind of results um you know especially because this is zero so this is the this is the default one and so we want to be it to be good enough so I you know again we need evaluation so so it\u0027s good it\u0027s good to their implementations but there needs to be effort and as editor I mean I understand that you might not be I mean or you might but if you\u0027re not the one I you know go go find people who who will deploy this either in simulation or I mean we need we need results yeah I think we need to advertise that because there is a large component of research we can actually be associated to this work this is kind of the base upon which a lot of research can happen I mean where do the sales come from how do we get known in interfering cells that can be allocated by different routers how do we avoid oscillations in their location and their locations would be stupid to spend our time in 6p allocating and deallocating things I know you get new thresholds there how do you said that the last time we had the discussion about the opportunity to make this an experimental RFC and I like this hedger because now we have we have written to the world a there is a base on which we\u0027d like you to be out there is what we would like you to experiment with and be on about if we don\u0027t publish it then people will say ok there is this thing but I don\u0027t know where it is I don\u0027t know what state it is it\u0027s a choice it\u0027s also there\u0027s a time when we are happy enough to kind of cast in stone that okay it\u0027s not a solid track document but at least it\u0027s the base on which we want to work and I hadn\u0027t got the impression that last time that\u0027s pretty much where we well the idea of finishing this as experimental now if you care about the name sf0 looking lightly that\u0027s wow that\u0027s it side of that could be to rename it but having publishing this this base let\u0027s let\u0027s use that as the base of the work about you know how we make those decision of allocation de-allocation I think we need it I think it\u0027s good to throw that at you know Academy on say a all those points are fantastic research please help so Tomas says you know this is a discussion we need to have a scale of course I have a I have a problem having the 0 SF being experimental I mean what message does this send out i yeah this is a you know all the work we do here is is you know is for industrial critical that net kind of things and having the default won\u0027t be experimental you know doesn\u0027t stand out yeah so it\u0027s where she had some so input jvic arresters do you have it no ok so just another point what um it would be good "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:15",
    "text": "to evaluate the interaction of SF with six be-because 6p has a delay on the allocation and no you have to take into account that while you asked for it takes some time to get it and maybe what you ask it doesn\u0027t make sense yeah so there\u0027s a relation that that needs to be taken to come suresh krisshnan so if not this then what right so what becomes as a zero so like we have do we have something in play I don\u0027t know right like so think of that first thing second thing is like if you want to make this experimental that\u0027s okay but I would like to see what the experiment is right sure like what are you actually trying to collect like the trap doesn\u0027t have anything like that so like just putting something in experimental like previously like a couple of years ago used to be a way of lowering the bar of review saying like oh this is experimental like you know people take a lighter read of the draft I didn\u0027t I use you and everything but I think it\u0027s more valuable to actually document what is the experiment what are you gonna collect and like what are you gonna do with it right and if you decide to go the experimental path and I will support it just make sure that like you know what do you want to figure out like you know like you what are the things you want to collect and how you want to bring it back to Sanders track in the future yeah yeah James thanks thank you thanks Josh there are other accepts in being without I need more questions for you thank you so this brings us to the other part which is not I meant dynamic scheduling which is the work on security and you\u0027ll have to to theme to things to talk about first minimal security and then Richard Michael will come in with a second draft right good afternoon my name is up my name is militia I\u0027m the editor of the minimal security draft which is the OneTouch procedure for secure enrollment in 60 networks yep so we published 0:03 version on June 15 and I was mostly busy with the implementation efforts in open wsn and the good news is that we have no as thank very sad we had we have an implementation complete in open WS an environment and an ongoing implementation in Kentucky base and pre-shared keys I will go through the summary of updates that we did in all three since the last IDF and then I will show some of the updates that I did that I intend to do based on the implementation experience so first there is a couple of there was a couple of exchanges on the mailing list regarding the communication how communication proceeds during the drawing process so I wanted to clarify this and I will make an attempt to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:15",
    "text": "clarify it in the draft basically we have a pledge which is or in all terminology the joining node which is pre-configured with locally relevant credentials such as a pre shared key or a row locally relevant certificate we have a 1:1 hop radio neighbor of the pledge or the three terminus joint proxy and the join register and the coordinator which is the central entity that manages the drawing process the pledge in the drawing proxy communicate over a link local addresses and this will be important for the later slides is to note that pledge only needs to know the address of the joint proxy the drawing proxy however needs to know the address of the jrc and there was one issue that I would discuss later how DRC finds out the address of how drawing rocks he finds out the address of the jrc the path from the pledge to the drawing proxy Islay is insecure in what concerns layer 2 security and it\u0027s passes over secure and if I and the path from drawing proxy to the Dre IRC is the mesh part that is secured a layer to secure a 15-4 this is Thomas want to clarify it says insecure layer to insecurity but there\u0027s an end right yes yeah oh yeah definitely so it\u0027s layers we know secure so it\u0027s clear or the frames are sent in clear on layer 2 but they are protected end-to-end that the application layer using go swap the joint frames and the frames of the DRAM protocol so the first update that we did is regarding who initiated the security handshake where we are using ad hoc from yet to be determined a group so basically we went from left to the right variety and we removed one one exchange at in order to remove one exchange we have the pledge now that is initiating the ad hoc D etat can shake where jrc can respond with an optional sac which is defined in coop as meaning that okay hang on I will respond to you later on in the process and this can be useful in in the use cases where are there are many concurrent requests by multiple pledges on the GRC and the GRC wants to alleviate the alleviate the load that is on the network by signaling those to the pledge to hold to hang on and wait this is of course optional with pre-shared keys and mandatory with a symmetric keys the Hinda handshake is so right now to come back to the initial point of how "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:15",
    "text": "pledge or the drawing proxy learns the JR sees address as ice drawing proxy essentially plays the role of a co-op proxy and stateless lis forwards the requests and realized the responses back to the pledge for this we use an option that is defined in my co-op option that is defined in minimal security that we term stateless proxy option and but the issue is how the drawing proxy knows the ipv6 address of the GRC and thanks to Michael oh if I remember right we settle down for this approach where basically the the the address of the GRC is returned in the join response factor such that the pledge at the time of the joint pledge learns that the address of the the jrc and we did an important optimization in the most common use case which is when when GRC is co-located with the dag root to omit the data to the the ipv6 address of the GRC in order and implied from the dog ID so basically when a pledge drawings in order to fully complete the drawing process it needs to receive at the i/o with the dog ID and then it configures the the address of the GRC and one assumption there is that the dagger root is pre-configured with the address for the whole process to kick off we had the discussion in the security design team about MTI algorithms to support and Inter we mostly discussed the symmetric part and we we quite easily settle down for the CCM star equivalent in cozy so this is a SCCM 16 64 128 it has eight byte authentication tag and in terms of non non non flanked it corresponds to the 15 for CCM so that we can reuse the same hardware for symmetric encryption on the application layer as we do for link layer security in terms of hash we said we in the draft currently we mandate sha-256 and in terms of asymmetric keys we mandate the P 256 elliptic curve and ECDSA signature algorithm but this is prone to change I would like to discuss this further maybe during the meeting if we want to support the two 5519 curve Edward skur if this would be useful as there were some discussions today in in das meeting about that so let me come back to the implementation status in the open WS n ecosystem we implemented the minimum security with pre-shared keys and we finished the implementations of Oh boss co-op in Python and minimal "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:16",
    "text": "security the jrc part in Python as well as the embedded part or squat in C and minimal security Oh tree in C in what concerns pledge and the drawn proxy and the draft is fully implemented apart from the asymmetric variety in contour is also an independent of implementation ongoing in Kentucky that we try to test during the practice it is still incomplete but it is ongoing and it will soon be completed I\u0027m so in terms of the implementation experience I found a couple of issues when trying to implement this the first issue was regarding the packet size and the most critical was the drawing response that comes down from the from the dag route to the first hop into the into the network because of the source routing header and basically with this the due to the join response payload if we assume no fragmentation in the network we are hitting the maximum limit of the network in terms of the depth that we can reach so this is so it\u0027s extremely important that we optimize this in order to build deep networks and my my understanding is that wireless heart for the moment goes up to eight hops dibs I was able to test with six hop with five hops in the with six hops but from the notes way from the same manufacturer which you know which compresses the source routing header quite efficiently so sorry some clarifying question so you\u0027re trying to measure how deep the network can be until the moment when you have to fragment right so there is no hard limit it\u0027s just that starting at five what did you say stops with random say five hops all right if you have seven hops it will work but you\u0027ll have to fragment yes that\u0027s correct the the packets okay so assuming there\u0027s no fragmentation in my packet I have in yeah Paquette I have a source route which which lists the different hops to go through followed by a bunch of headers followed by the encrypted Oscorp payload right and yes okay and so is is is there anything we can do to that or is no slide about that yes I have done the next slide I have the dissection and the packet dissection basically with the join response in the case with five five hops downwards and as you can see we have the source routing header at the beginning and these are some modifications that I had to do in order to make it work so I use the token length set to zero in coop which is which is allowed in co-op spec which is allowed in coops work in certain "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:16",
    "text": "circumstances that fits very well with the drawing process I removed the content format option from the draft in my local copy I still this is still not present in all three so the join response does not contain the content format option but this is implied I think from the in terms of pledge because we are defining the protocol on top yes it does contain a URI the join response does not it contains the message ID the message ID the message ID so the pelagic is able to match the yes it was note from that message ID that that yes format is kind of well known yes so I think Pascal I think is gonna say roading her I think that if we had Dow projections that we could shorten the rotor and Kettering header but you could tell me whether I\u0027m wrong about that and you said I think the routing header could be further compressed too he\u0027s just said right yeah okay this is pascal and there are two venues that we can look at now to make this a bit deeper without fragmentation first one is is the way you allocate your addresses and the way you build them and the way they are ah because I see there that you seem to be using a six relish with is that four octet that you\u0027re using so I did not implement six flourish so yes it\u0027s thankful but yeah it is but the question is you know there are multiple ways to compress the address what makes them more compressible is if they share more bytes you know if everybody builds on the same thing and the best way to have everybody build on the same thing is really linked to what you\u0027re doing it\u0027s because if you if you harm the short address yeah then you can derive you can make sure that our unique along a path because this is the route to win both does everything in its own right so you can derive shot address every hobbies to work that\u0027s but I don\u0027t think I\u0027m seeing hops off to act I see I don\u0027t know how to read what you\u0027re right but I think that you\u0027re using frog that\u0027s per hop and if you read your eye stuff from the shorter dress and you sign the shop to try so you know you think well then you should be able to use a six or average with twelve dates per hop so that\u0027s one Avenue the other venue is as long as your network is not too big and that that will that will step in the future but that\u0027s the point that Michael was making there is a draft in the making a troll which is basically saying okay you\u0027re doing on storing because you know we don\u0027t we know you don\u0027t have so much room but actually actually I can shorten the sauce rot headers by having just a little bit of state that the route decides to install into particular devices so now it\u0027s not like an explosion of state because the route can maintain how much state it installs but that you can really use that to have a little bit of storing which again will shorten your right path and in part well you can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:16",
    "text": "decide where you place this debt etc that would be a limit Michael because these things finds us a tree and at some point you know you don\u0027t have as enough state so you can\u0027t you can\u0027t shut down every path to everybody but that that can be a tool if your network is not well balanced and you have a direction where a lot of things go then you can shorten you know this and I\u0027m thinking particular in am ia more use cases where you\u0027ve got those long lines of matters along a straight and typically for that the rod projection thing will save a lot and then you can you without the fragment connection you can authenticate all the metals along the street without taking a problem between so the good news is this is orthogonal to the draft I mean this is showing the full dissection but it\u0027s orthogonal what is not implemented in on the implemented in our implementation currently is the assignment of short analysis to the stack so this will further save but I think it\u0027s already good news that we can go down five hops without without fragmentation yes yes just just a clarifying question I think we have to stop after that so the number is the five hops that is assuming eui-64 s are used in source a header i understand you then allied them if the beginning is the same but this is assuming you are 60 or 64-bit addresses right to inquire yes link layer yeah yes okay so this will go down if we goodness to bite yes and this is another thing that we can improve basically this is dissection sibour dissection of the join response sabor decoding of the drawing response and we are currently using 26 bytes to encode 16 byte key and one byte key ID so it\u0027s quite an overhead and one proposal would be to use the binary encoding to compress the drawing response in something like what they did in or scope with the compressed cosy so that would be one proposal that I would like to discuss also during the meeting and the sec this shoe that I find quite important is the drawing proxy policy and although I understand that we will not stand up as a policy in ITF there is a problem of how join proxy accepts those insecure layer two frames at the during the joint process because in the implementation currently I had to allow it from any node that I haven\u0027t seen before and this can be easily spoofed such that an arbitrary node can inject packets into the network so the proposal is to include to provide the mechanism to accept insecure alert to frames only upon a trigger and I think this is where Michaels draft fits very well in terms of the flag in terms of one flag that we will use to signal that the drawing process is allowed so basically the idea would be for the final implementation that upon about a button to button press "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:17",
    "text": "in the beacon we include the information element with the joint process flag set that we can use to to accept in secure layer two frames and expired upon a time out yes Pascal again I think it\u0027s a very classical to have a few word in a draft like that with which size throttle like never accept any quantity in your amount have and it\u0027s not necessarily a value but that there is something which says Oh any sense sensible implementation will will have a mechanism to short out the request you just take as many per unit of time or so oh it\u0027s one sentence you want it yeah so I understand to two things one address at the sentence would rather talk about throttle just the name throttle it\u0027s already there I believe okay sorry and and and and have this mechanism to switch on and off based either joint proxy feature of the mode okay yeah so that would be it so basically the PSK variant is quite stable and implementation ready and we have the implementation and open WS and complete we settle down for ad hoc roles in the automatic but it we have yet to implement this and I will publish all four draft with implementation experience before what I hope to be the working group last call and the reviews are of course very welcome a quick note that at the moment there are two drugs that are that we depend upon to have this work and maybe Michael can come out a bit but there are debates at this moment and there will be a lunch on Wednesday about whether a dark in particular and then there is a draft I Peter as well that we need whether they should have a home at the ATF and without the F will endorse that this work continue continues and obviously will be pushing for this thing to happen right yeah okay great okay thank you any questions for militia thank you and to finish the security Michael hi so um that\u0027s not the right side here interesting they\u0027ll never work okay in the end so I have to look here all right so I get my car in front of me so the goal is zero touch joint protocol and it\u0027s supposed to look very much like the enema brewski would work but optimized for six Tish and minimized and you\u0027re using methods and protocols that we already have code space for so in news the Enver voucher document which is the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:17",
    "text": "document that allows in zero touch the pledge to understand that this is in fact the network that it belongs to these are in fact the droids you\u0027re looking for is is actually I said almost working group last call but actually it it written group last call was over and it was actually supposed to be done in parallel with this working group and that was actually a mistake so that\u0027s very good all right I think it may take uh it\u0027s been through I think it may take a little while to get through the iesg um but I anticipate by the end of the summer I think it probably will be out so that\u0027s good for us the anima burski document was rewritten in april/may um and you can come tomorrow and learn about that if you like but the key thing is that the the the structure of it is now stable it\u0027s about 15 page short pages shorter that\u0027s always good and our document which parallels it now has to be rewritten in that same style and so that\u0027s on my to-do list Michael if you say come tomorrow you mean to anima yeah anima yes I\u0027m sorry - anima yes so as Pascal mentioned we need ad hoc ad hoc will be our our asymmetric key management protocol that we need to run it it it could go in ace it could go in other places and some area directors are going to have lunch and they\u0027re gonna figure out what\u0027s going on and and so that\u0027s taken a fair number of cycles to convince people that there\u0027s a problem to be solved here both the problem of where the document goes and a problem that the document actually solves that we need so the next steps are essentially as I said - - we\u0027re rewriting brueski with with with six Tish in mind there\u0027s already a document that we have already but you know it it essentially it\u0027s been it\u0027s been cut up into pieces and and pieces have gone elsewhere I\u0027ve gone into six Tish minimal I\u0027ve gone into other places I\u0027ve gone into Bruschi and things like this and so now it\u0027s time to rewrite a document that basically we actually can pass as opposed to just a collection of texts and ideas and essentially that\u0027s it so you see does this work yeah you can\u0027t see that remotely so TLS becomes Edie Hawk HT becomes co-op and the minimal security joiners request is the is is bootstrap with the ad-hoc protocol so when you read the documents you should see essentially you should be able to put the two documents next to each other and say oh yes so in brewski for big equipment you do this and for small equipment you do this and there would be a kind of a one-to-one then that should be I\u0027ll just make everyone happy so that they say okay is essentially the same protocol conceptually but on the wire if the bits are are much smaller and faster or slower yeah so huh small bits just the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:18",
    "text": "bits are the saint that the same number of bits but they\u0027re smaller yes that\u0027s right and and I\u0027d like to change I\u0027d like to change the document to to include the word zero-touch in the title and actually I\u0027d like to change the the the internet draft name to include that as well I think that will be simpler but that probably that may require the blessing of the chairs or maybe they\u0027ll describe decide the whole working group has to decide but so what I would like to do is change the name of the document so related document so with some some things that as we were working on both six dish minimal and zero touch we realized there are some things that were not specifically in related to the security but that the security needed so the two of them are we have one is this enhanced beacon document and so this is an additional information element which we can now allocate care of that RFC that you announced the beginning of the meeting and so we can put some additional information in the beach and so the specific things that we needed to we wanted to put in was essentially there\u0027s a bit that says I am a joint proxy okay and there\u0027s another bit that says I\u0027m a router so which means please don\u0027t send a if you\u0027re a leaf node not a routing node please don\u0027t send a router solicitation eating up a multicast saw a slot you can unicast one to me and I\u0027ll answer you okay and that saves a lot of you know multicast broadcast lots are are pretty pretty precious and we don\u0027t really want to use them up for stuff we have to them for da O\u0027s and so the the specific enhancement that the join part was in fact a preference you know how how willing am I to to allow pledges to join and so the suggestion is essentially is that if there\u0027s a maximum number 255 that it means I\u0027m not willing to have proxies joining and as a result if you propagate this through the beacon from the DOE Dagon if the DOE tag happens to say 255 then at the root says that then everyone else is gonna have to say well obviously the DOE tag doesn\u0027t want anyone joining so none of the rest of us should let anyone join and so in effect the doubt the the ripple root can turn off join processing through the thing it\u0027s a good idea or not it seems like a good work for me such information could also be in the rippled eio as another possibility crippled the iOS don\u0027t necessarily propagate us as often sort of a Michael sort of a mix yes if I\u0027m a new joining note I don\u0027t understand it the iOS there if you\u0027re an if you\u0027re a pledge you don\u0027t hear this at all well you he\u0027s right if you\u0027re a pledge you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:18",
    "text": "hear this yes but not the iOS yes but the point is we could turn off the announcement of this bit it\u0027s what militia wants to do we could do that indie iOS oh yeah okay the point is that then it could also be done by the fact that that all the nodes all of the the routing nodes from the root down are also sending beacons regularly right and so this could also be transmitted that way but I I love the edge I think we need a quick draft at all which will say oh basically the route is a Josie and here is its preference and then as you propagate this new option in the DAO the the the nodes can only reduce the value that you find in that bit oh so you\u0027d rather do it in idea rather than in a beacon oh yeah because yeah it has to be because it\u0027s linked to route yeah it is a property of the route and then it says property of the sub dag to be able to use that route as a chioce in the first place right yeah we\u0027ve got this compression which is more efficient if the route is a you need to know that somebody has to signal it and it can only be the route some point we secure those things and the route will securely say I am a jersey of Netaji us it belongs to what the route exposes and what to the device is for now if you want to be able to announce part of that to the joining node yes you take it from the DAO as proxy you have it and you expose that on the lower layer but but you need to get it from repo so you\u0027re suggesting we get it from in the on/off from ripple rather than right it\u0027s a reference there\u0027s a preference regionally originally we also were not believing that the preferences were necessarily decreasing as you got away from the reap route that\u0027s not necessarily but it cannot amount so so the the the scenario is that that I had envisioned is where you had some diagram would help here where you had some dense intermediate a bunch of mesh okay where there was quite a number let\u0027s say two to two ranks down there\u0027s quite a number of devices and the device says look I can here six other beacons willing to do proxy my battery\u0027s low I\u0027m not going to announce okay because I can hear that there\u0027s other other will other willing participants who have obviously higher more battery so my batteries too low I\u0027m not going to help that\u0027s not a process procedure you can describe it as well usse trickier and all those things and put the weight on trickles which is based on your batteries what would en out what would that note announce downwards well what\u0027s your notes on the DI you and what you know and what you announce on your beacon off to the noise yes I agree so so maybe that what you\u0027re saying is that the the ripple value cannot increase cannot not the but that in local you can decide to make your ear and an e value much much lower or less "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:20",
    "text": "secure less trellis much bigger and then you actually decide we should be consistent with the other piece I mean you can I would really use zero as no because it\u0027s false I and increasing it makes Oh better I mean it\u0027s always this game of which is bad with some other with low rank gets bigger bigger ranks are worse so I think we should make it consistent with that so it\u0027s almost yes the drunk Rd increase increases higher join parody actually means less priority right so higher number is less priority i I think you know the joint proxy is a and this is my personal opinion ah that\u0027s why I\u0027m here so the joint proxy feature is a 15-4 ET SCH feature so III don\u0027t see why we should start mingling this with ripple and what not I mean I can run a 54 Network 54 HT ACH network without ripple and and you know why are we doing this like across everything so so propagate this on off we left when that on the meaning is because it\u0027s a fantastic topic actually okay but it\u0027s mostly I mean basically the view of it and then the delay of to view of it so yes we keep them independent but to find sense like just the ability to turn it on/off kenseth make sense that the global to your dark level right because the GOC wants to be a G or not or it\u0027s busy D at this time and and it wants to come back and and find since there are just too many things coming in from that particular network announced rattle it I don\u0027t know maybe you your link for instance the the preference with with kind of the throttling level so by pushing your di OS and the lower preferences you will ask the distributed process is to throttle more and there\u0027s a lot of thing you can do if you signals for repo how to do it but that\u0027s the repo level that\u0027s a layer 3 global level and then at the local level the node can take this you know doing even less but it cannot take this this is not doing more you see it\u0027s not the same in every nothing more case and feel the network won\u0027t support more so that\u0027s the point that the node can can use up to the amount the network whatever the units will be there go ahead this is malicious so I would just like to say that I agree with the layer to view because the the problem with the the implementation was only how to configure the exempt flag in 802 the 15.4 so basically when to accept insecure packets at layer 2 and everything else is taken care of by the ipv6 forwarding and the the join protocol so I would rather do it very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:21",
    "text": "simply with the enhance beaker with the flag depending only locally on the join proxy is not to remove that the proposal is to say a if you want to propagate something about a more global knowledge then then we need a way to do it as well for instance the way you throttle is discussed ok there is some some blinds rattling to happen well maybe the level is fucking depends on network wide metrics like how many people are trying to join at this time so each GN should slow down more because too many people are coming here and that\u0027s not something that an individual layer 2 can know and the one thing I really opposed is that you learn something from your parent at layer 2 because you don\u0027t know in which direction propagates you need to learn it from your layer 3 parent just like we do for that yeah that may be a really good point you need to learn it from your layer 3 parent so from a process point of view I believe following the ionic considerations in 6550 we can allocate new ripple d io options that\u0027s not a problem we don\u0027t have to go to role to do that the question is should we do it in this document which is defining a layer 2 object should we define a layer 3 object at the same time because we\u0027re still the extensions to these hands beacon for the pledge to listen to right because that\u0027s a bit like that\u0027s Carol yet the question we have about what\u0027s coming up for six stop right at some point we may end off sixth up to I Triple E and if this document is a single document then only go file for it will be a lot more complicated right so so you\u0027d like to documents well I\u0027m just no I didn\u0027t say that I just just put one one of the pussy Lawrence on the table for those viewing at home Thomas has just pulled out a really large bottle of Cola because he anticipates a long conversation now I have no particular preference either way but like we can do it both ways if both of them are possible so if you want to do it in one document and we can probably do a joint last call in here under all bugginess is like yeah yeah I\u0027m not worried about that process I\u0027m worried about what the you know about handing off or whatever so the other point is this document has not been adopted so we good to adopt it as it is and then if you want we want to have a tell I will write as another document that talks about the layer three option okay and then if if you want to make it one document yeah so I hey I\u0027d like we cannot adopt right now but I\u0027d like to get a feel from the room about whether you think it\u0027s a good idea why do you think it\u0027s not a good "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:21",
    "text": "idea so those who think it\u0027s this draft the draft drawing and how about enhanced beacon joining new Intel proxies you exist so who alleges that proxies exist so who who read the draft we have over there behind the pillar yeah a little maybe ten people a little less than ten people eight people okay among those who read it who objects well yeah okay so who who thinks adopting this this draft within the workgroup is a good ID please raise your hand now who opposes to the idea of adopting this word document within the word group please raise your hand now okay so the same people who read it will raise their hands and we did not have all right oh they don\u0027t see behind the pillars I don\u0027t have the eyes but what somebody behind the pillar raising your hand for the no question no or no answer there\u0027s no hands up for know okay that\u0027s interesting important information for us thank you okay so I have well I let\u0027s write the document and then and then you can see what it says okay because I think that\u0027ll be two pages to start so the other document that came out of or was removed from the the zero touch in one touch document was rekeying okay my slide so this is intended to be a Comey based thing leveraging a key that was set up ideally through through the OS co-op used for or a so sorry leveraging the key setup either through ed hawk or the existing keys that were one touch okay so that there\u0027s no additional key management overhead that\u0027s happening this way how that works as remains to determine um so basically it is you know you have your network wide key um you have a key ID for it one okay um I believe we have in minimal we have eliminated key one key to I can\u0027t remember if we did it\u0027s not specified so we leave the possibility to return multiple keys and run response right so so that the there\u0027s if we\u0027re gonna very we have to return two key IDs so you have key one and key to that maybe sorry ID one and ID to that responds to six dish minimal x\u0027 key one key to k1 k2 and then we have to rekey them which involves giving "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:21",
    "text": "everyone a new set of keys and then um when the dough DeGroot believes the jrc believes that it has communicated with enough nodes preferably all of them but maybe there are some that just there no one exists anymore it\u0027s given up on them at which point starts using the new keys and when it starts using the new keys that\u0027s a signal to all other nodes that have the new keys to stop using the old keys so we have a basically a rolling rekey there so first of all the first step is that everyone gets a new key and then the next step is that we use it and actually the third kind of step as we tell it them to delete the old keys but actually put a timer on that so this is all intended to be essentially Komi based which is simple management over co-op as the based on a yang model it\u0027s relatively small and simple in terms of bytes used and that\u0027s a second document so Peter and I have done some work on that nor work needs to be done I don\u0027t think either of us have looked at the document since last IETF maybe peter has I don\u0027t remember I have I have heard that that the situation you know this working group tried to use Comey for 6p and we weren\u0027t happy with it at the time and that it has gone in the last four years gone through a significant change and it\u0027s much much easier and smaller to deal with and so that\u0027s a good thing and it\u0027s probably the right answer from a IETF why you know what are we doing are with management kind of thing why would you need to rekey well either because you actually care about crypto hygiene and want to recycle your keys now and then or be because there\u0027s some node in your network which has gone bad and the only way you have of cutting them off from your network is to change everyone else key so that\u0027s the the oh shit I need to move move I need to get rid of of malar from my network okay so that\u0027s pretty important but rekeying is going to take recognize that rekeying means talking to every single node with at least a couple packets and getting a response from them and you can do it slowly it could happen over hours or even days depending on the bitrate of your network but that the slower you do it the longer you have a bad guy on your network okay so that\u0027s the like the caveat there\u0027s no the document doesn\u0027t say how fast to do it that\u0027s up to you that\u0027s gonna be you know quality of implantation or something like that to do it so that\u0027s this document so we\u0027re completely out of time oh okay I\u0027m sorry I thought this was earlier in the document and well that\u0027s good so that\u0027s a second document please read it if you think that it belongs in this working group then I would love to have a mailing list discussion about that yeah and who\u0027s shabby no Simon "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:22",
    "text": "Seymour so thank you thank you my phone is so weird no more questions for Michael okay so now we\u0027re entering in the last we\u0027re right on time because we jumped one ten-minute thing so we\u0027re right on time we\u0027re now entering the if time permits and time permits section we have four new work that is the first time I believe that they\u0027re being presented so Seymour has a scheduling function called a SF tour zeroes thank you so so yeah sorry one thing that\u0027s important please keep your time uh you have ten so switching back to the scheduling topic here what we are proposing is a scheduling function called AES F which stands for autonomous scheduling function where you have two main concepts the first one is that you have autonomous slot frames or spot friendlies cells in them which means that in the SWAT frame you have cells that are self maintained locally by the node only by the knowledge of the neighborhood so the basic idea there is that the at the node you know your neighborhood and you know the MAC addresses of your neighbors and you\u0027re going to use the MAC address and to hash it to actually find out a slot and channel offset deterministically to communicate with that node the second concept in a SF is that you have one slot frame Pro traffic plain typically one for the teach synchronization one for the routing control one for the application but you could have a bit already as many as you want and each one benefit of that is that is so these lot frames are isolated completely by design so they don\u0027t interact with one another the SWAT frame length is going to dimension your schedule like in any store I\u0027m but the key design point here is that because you have one slot frame for traffic plain you can very easily dimension the traffic capacity for explaining the applications of that are mostly distributed routing network so that was everything takes basically distributed like in the Ripper Network and we have very extensive experimentation of these ASF in testbed with over 200 experiments in three different testbed ranging from 25 to 380 nodes and we demonstrate of June 5 9 s with a ability in that context with ripple both storing an on storing mode abroad and or not trafficking now this comes obviously with major limitations which I wanted to highlight here it\u0027s a least suboptimal for few reasons the three main reason are on the slide number one the cells are not cascaded "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:24",
    "text": "along the past you cannot do very quick forwarding a to be followed by B 2 B 2 C etc the slots are all shell we don\u0027t have and the schedule is always provided for the worst case so you going to be you have to choose between energy efficiency incapacity you cannot dynamically add more cells for traffic between a and B if suddenly you need more traffic between A\u0026B I\u0027m going to show here a brief overview of each of the three different types of such frames we have three types the first one the simplest one is absolutely equivalent to the sixties minimum so you basically have a start frame here in that case you have a single slot which is used for a reception transmission it\u0027s a shared spot and all know that\u0027s a rendezvous slot so all the nodes are waking up at the same time same channel offset and this is used typically for unable discovery it\u0027s just for any broadcast communication with node you do not know yet so it\u0027s it\u0027s used most often at the defaults not frame and forwards in control data so if you\u0027re on the side you see only four channel offset so the one thing that for each of the stratum you have in a staff we actually dedicate a subset of the 16 or of the M available slots for channel offsets so here in that example we have a that that\u0027s what frame has four channel up set to play with the second one is the receiver base last time in which is used for unicast communication in that one the nodes maintain well they have one static receive but which called OBC base they have one static receive slot here the green one at the channel of certain time of self is on the hash of the of the MAC address of the node and then for each neighbor which is unknown by the 886 neighbor cash for each neighborhood you compute the hash of the Mac and that gives you coordinate sin x and y for a transmitted shared slot that name it\u0027s a shot slot because you have multiple senders every one also because you might have multiple nodes listening on the same because the hash is not clear area the last one is a sender by slot frame the exact same thing except that now the cell that is fixed is for sending so you have always once sell based on a hash of own MAC address and then you maintain a receive cells for the other note that you want to listen to and that is typically used for privileged neighbors such as the teach time source or a poor parent because it gets more costly if you do it you cannot you could also choose to do it for all neighbors it gets more costly because then you need to listen to all neighbors it\u0027s a little more cost in energy so this is all put together that\u0027s so as I was saying before you have one member traffic plane each dot same as diff different subset of channel offset and that way to isolate and the SWAT friends "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:25",
    "text": "have each different size and we recommend the size to be co-prime so that when they repeat they do so independently and the slots are going to overlap every now and then but they do it in a uniformly distributed way when that happens the I Triple E President\u0027s rule for all slots is actually used meaning TXE has higher priority than an Rx and smaller slots from handling has higher priority this is study draft so we have a description of different slots from tax we have a definition of how the coordinates the cells are computed we have an example schedule of the voice for slot frames we have definition of all the configuration parameters you want to take the question now I was no previous like I can write yes well there is this habit to use different slot frames pascal\u0027s we have four different priorities I was just wondering since you\u0027re making different slots fives is if you keep them or align time wise or because there is this risk risk of a collision so at some point you would say a what if I could use some CSMA in there and I was just wondering if since you have so many of them you constantly use them as a priority now they kind of most of them are the same priority like traffic now some of them may still the aya priority like like the time and you may be thinking oh those which are higher priority I may synchronize them a bit ahead of time like two milliseconds before the lower ones so if there is you you can still do some form of CSU mail I\u0027m just now you get this possibility I\u0027m just asking sure using I\u0027m not sure it\u0027s possible to do that in compliance with the Tripoli 15-4 IDO not defense what is your main or desynchronisation of this rostrum right which is can you have different slut friends which are not synchronized yeah I think Pascal means different slot frames same slot structure yeah just slot frames of different lengths that are well know they start the minute if you have like an epoch right don\u0027t use well I\u0027ve a different epochs which which are shifted by like two milliseconds for different soldiers I was wrong you cannot do that no oh they would be independent networks well they are mostly right yes so do that beyond independent networks but it\u0027s just the same for everything just shifted back to me a second so that the I probably it\u0027s always there first and you can always detect it it\u0027s just yeah but on the other hand we also have different channel of set religious zealots frame so whenever you start listening you actually are on one particular channel so you will not start hearing from from one that starts a bit earlier on you you will like you know when you start receiving which one you\u0027re actually listening out anyway so that you have collisions right even and and there is no no thing which will make a higher "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:25",
    "text": "priority transmission at a better chance than the lower priority you don\u0027t have any other media I don\u0027t even have or between transmission in the same slot frame because all the short frames here must have different channel offset meaning they will rely on the same physical channel that\u0027s one particular point in time but but you might have a mode might have multiple things to do at one given point in time in which case I Triple E president\u0027s designing takes over the eye yeah so the only collision you\u0027re happy they scheduled level collision aids which protects and the prime numbers are bad luck this day then but the highest priority is going to be alone it takes precedence so it\u0027s going to be the only one transmitted at the time the soft frames the soft frame has a handle and these specify the priority so yeah I think I think that\u0027s I think that works and and I proposed you guys are not talking about the same collisions Pascal is talking about a collision on the radio between nodes and you\u0027re talking about collisions between schedules on the same note mmm having disconnected discussion okay this was Dominic thank you very so a question so thank you for oh so we have a definition of configuration parameters one thing that\u0027s not defined yet is how to how to discover that configuration there are two options the preferred one currently would be to have a new information in amount in EB so because it\u0027s a join time thing so as you join the network you should know which slots friend we\u0027re gonna have and how to maintain them so here what I mean in the world that tell you what are the length of strata frame which which says our receiver base Center base which one\u0027s a rendezvous etc the other option is to do it with sixty comments yeah overloading yep and yeah feedback design itself and what the traffic should cover how to discover configuration and so on so so I have a single question has this been evaluated yeah it\u0027s been evaluated experimentally with like many experiments are three different as bad up to 280 node five nines reliability movie okay any questions thank you thanks for staying in time thank you very much next on is Darden on success examples "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:28",
    "text": "hello I like to talk about these six teach examples and this draft was but this document was written like two years ago then the protocols have evolved some other protocols appear so we needed to update this document the goal of this document is just to provide a reference for new implementers to like how cystic frames should look like so here we see different cystic Franks in this document okay and what in order to read this document we have we use two tools we use open WM project using the open aureus and framework and also the open dahlias and visualizer as a simulation and also using wireshark the latest release which implements a situation dissection and six stop detection as well here we see the date apology of the simulation note so we use three nodes in simulation being not one day de bruit not to win the child of night one and no to being the parent of note 3 so once the network is formed Varsha will capture every single frame exchange between within the nodes here\u0027s the third of contents of this document so he will see all the all the examples of the frames of safety so if you see here we have it has become our PL Dao and the IO and a garage friends we have icmpv6 echo request and reply and all the sick 6p comments well now like to give you just a small example of one frame which was in this document so it\u0027s not one in on three so yeah so here we see not one destination - not one ping in on three through not number two so here we see destination is well number no.2 in the frame layer we see note 1 in the source in this in the source and then we see here the destination is well not 3 so here no to past the frame 2 node 3 and then just the reply the replied going for 3 to 2 and then the reply going for 2 to 1 well this is a very simple drop of yeah all the all the Cystic frames necess Texas this week will deliver a version number 3 with including 150 comment list "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:29",
    "text": "we was missing we we did some editor changes and us a what\u0027s next is this document really useful for implementers today for to them to have a reference and if it\u0027s working to be adopted as a working group Thank You Jonathan I want to add a couple of points here for this draft this is indeed a copy/paste exercise of a wireless out Wireshark output agreed but our experience has been we\u0027ve we you publish this a couple of last couple of eyes years ago it was used extensively at blood tests it was then kind of forgotten we didn\u0027t update it it disappeared and at the new block test we had again the same questions how does this header fit with this what\u0027s this bit with this byte and I\u0027m I\u0027m uh you know I I I like the fact that it shows on paper exactly how the headers fit one after the other and how exactly the six large fit with you know that kind of stuff so you know it in my mind this is this is definitely informational but this is something that we could contemplate us as adopting as a workgroup document actually Suresh this is a case where I\u0027d really like to have your advice so this is a very useful document for the implementer twil should we progress that all the way to RFC or is it something that the working group should keep maintaining what kind of form is the recommended practice for document like this as Christian so so personally right like I leave it up to you for a minute okay but like I\u0027ll tell you what Guilin I\u0027m using myself okay when I\u0027m talking about this do you think this will be useful in five years after its published okay so that\u0027s the kind of like how I judge whether something would be useful or not if you think it is go ahead with it if you think it\u0027s not like keep it as a wiki or if you think it\u0027s gonna be outdated a it\u0027s gonna be published don\u0027t bother right like so and I don\u0027t want to judge that for you but that\u0027s the kind of guideline I\u0027m gonna use like because I wrote that statement along with us some of the other ideas about the support documents so I kind of want to follow like some kind of consistent guidelines because we see like all kind of things because there\u0027s some working groups that got shattered like long time ago which actually chat right and saying these kind of things so we\u0027re having some difficulty like applying like the same guideline so if you want to have a new deliverable for this right that\u0027s what I\u0027m gonna apply so I\u0027m saying okay is there archival value for this if not no don\u0027t do it as a separate document put it in the appendix or something or or wiki or whatever or a draft that\u0027s maintained you decide okay thank you okay I have another one for Michael very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:32",
    "text": "short there is the use of ripple info document would that make sense to to have some some something like that as I next just to show what\u0027s going on those packets you\u0027re asking with the use of ripple info benefit from having this text at the end of it yes other cases that we present some examples that would really be awesome and it would also to address what suresh said it would it would also document the situation as of now as of that document which is a standards track document it would be useful in five years when somebody goes to implement something that needs to be compatible with what\u0027s with what\u0027s deployed and so even if we do things after that they would be saying I am compliant to this particular use of ripple document in my data plane and here\u0027s some example packets that you can test with right so that actually would be awesome just we need to make we need to make sure that we got the the relationship between there and that if there\u0027s if there\u0027s a bunch of sixth ish stuff there that it\u0027s clearly this is layer two so if you\u0027re not six dish don\u0027t do this find some other other thing thank you yeah I think Euler and forever time then thank you George\u0027s and you can you strictly stick to the dude only one my name is George George papadopolis and I\u0027m presenting the draft about requirements as I rode along with Nicola Mount Olympus called to bear about packet replication and elimination in complex trucks sixty Sh so 60s networks thought should not be only reliable but the tarry music as well meaning that the data packet that is transmitted need to be are transmitted in predefined and constant delay right so meaning that we should exhibit ultra low jitter performance so assuming that we have our wireless topology as a source this destination and the two relays here we may implement what\u0027s called promiscuous overhearing to do so assuming considering that we have the wireless reading which is by nature a broadcast then any neighbor may overhear this transmission right so here what I\u0027d like to pay attention is that in such scenario we may have a scheduler where a cell where we are where we are having a couple of multiple receivers and this need to be addressed and in addition to we may have collisions and acknowledgement right next if we want to increase the if we want to reduce the do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:36",
    "text": "the performance we may employ in the packet application where each sixties are note will transmit each data packet first to its default button from the ribbon and what we call here the alternative parent to increase the reliability and to reduce the jitter performance this transmission will take place in two different unicast while they may be overseen here we need to pay attention on the ripple vio message but potentially we need to be extended to a low so that each 60 node to have some additional information about their potential parents and a list of parents but we may need to have what we call here alternative parent next by employing packet replication it\u0027s straightforward that we are having duplication so the we we have unnecessary are trafficking the network we need to employ what\u0027s called elimination to reduce this unnecessary traffic to do so each sixties node once it received the first coffee the first copy of the data packet it will discuss the following copies here are esprit 60s architecture the sequence number is not 65 detector does not take position about how the sequence projects are tracked in a packet however it comes with tagging packets for floated if occasion which will be great to efficiently apply in this procedure of packet elimination here I have a simple example for you guys to see how looks like the TCH schedule here I have the cell where I\u0027m having the source transmits the data packet and then I\u0027m having the two receivers so we have things to toggle with with multiple receivers the acknowledgment for the from two different guys so we need to avoid collisions or whether we need we need to discuss whether we are going to have one acknowledgement to acknowledgment or not knowledge meant and then another thing that I want to point out here is how s is going to request from both our listing it from both destinations these are this cell there\u0027s another thing that we need to be discussed if we want if this packet application elimination procedure is interesting here is a summary of some of the requirement that I wrote in the draft that is related with the alternative party selection so we are going to talk about ripple in the i/o message but may imply that may add some additional information the promiscuous were hearing again we are having the the reservation for two destinations like to judge me the packet to different destinations how to request this cell the acknowledge the police how to avoid collision at this acknowledgement because we are having two destinations that are going to acknowledge the same transmitter and then how to perform these packet elimination by employing tagging packet flow identification efficiently or whatever here is if some of these were are willing to review this draft loss "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:38",
    "text": "was like basically I\u0027m sure that I\u0027m having some nice requirements so I will be doing get this this feedback from you guys thanks so much so these raise your hand if you\u0027re willing to read and review this draft all right so you have at least two volunteer 300 400 years for it\u0027s good and then there\u0027s your hand they\u0027re only so that\u0027s five volunteers thank you listen via thank you so thank you I\u0027m afraid we\u0027re out of time thank you I\u0027m afraid that we\u0027re also out of time for the last presentations or usual I understand it I mean you already presented this the interim meeting I\u0027m happy to continue discussing the draft that a follow up injury meaning or on the main in list but we\u0027re running out of time sorry this traffic yeah and we\u0027re 30 seconds towards the end I think metadata you wanted to say something really really quickly yeah sure thank you busca thank you I just want to let you know that at 6 p.m. I will be talking about an ongoing project founded by Issa where we are looking out to integrate IOT network with satellite connection if you are interested be app if you join it is in Paris room and I will show to you what we have done so far and the defending many results that we have I think the event would announce it on some many English already so I will be a peaceful joy thank you Thank You Maya and also please be aware that Bobby Lee who is living now as Center some slides about the status of the I trip reactivity or NATO to that 15 and 15 for in particular and we have no time to be on them but would be adding them on the data tracker with the slides of this meeting so you\u0027ll be free to go ahead and see them thanks Bob for the slides and with this I\u0027d like to close the meeting thank you very much "
  }
]