[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:16",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] that\u0027s that many many years ago I was with digital I never mess with in 1987 or 88 somewhere around there easy rusty represent a digital onset here\u0027s the person a manifesto right have important to offering angularfire with that how do we do that we step down but actually did everything that I\u0027m a person because I know that later I was at that time no one Peter\u0027s got very what I want to say shady kind of recommendation because people didn\u0027t understand introduced a notion that hopefully it has British system so ok guys this is IP with we are about to start in a couple of minutes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:36",
    "text": "but I heard that if state nobody wants it but you said comments a little bit literally really so we yeah we are already late okay so this is IP wife these cutters Barnardo\u0027s and here with us fastly and yes so well this is a typical notice on IPR so please take a look and pay attention to to that if you are not familiar with the ITF rules and this is the note well which you should also be familiar at this point of the week but in any case please if you are not take a look at that and with the documents at our reference very you are not familiar then before we start we need to do the classical logistics so blue sheets are circulating so please don\u0027t forget to sign the blue seats then we need some note taker so told you you\u0027re gonna be taking notes right it would be great if we have some additional people taking notes I think it is best if you go to the other part I will try to also take some notes while by trying on the ether pad so I think it\u0027s much more easier to collect and also to to fix the notes if you make any comment to the mic please "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:38",
    "text": "try to then go to the other pad and see if the question that you made and the comment was clearly conveyed or clearly captured in the minutes also you can try to see if your name was correctly taken so I think it\u0027s best if we try to use the ether pad for this and we will also need to have some Dara scribe because we have some remote than this our a bean among them so do we have any any volunteer to do the describe yes thank your ass so let\u0027s start with the working group search update so the status well as you know we are late with our milestones and the the main one is the ipv6 over OCB document that while we have had some iterations in the last meeting we got some reviews addressing the comments from six-month with the help of Eric and since then we move the document in the process and we got some reviews from the Internet era Directorate and the aut Directorate from Pascal tobert and what we will discuss later how to how to address all comments in the presentation from Alex how to move from from there then we have also the problem statement survey draft that there was some reviews from Sri and Charlie and the authors will also present how they have been addressing those reviews and then we will see also what is the what they work in the fields above that and whether is ready for for moving forward or not but there\u0027s again a reminder that we really need to close those documents even before considering to consider to consider any potential additional work so I know that there are some guys that are really interested in doing more things and as we have discussed with them offline but it\u0027s clear we are not gonna be moving because we will not be allowed by charesse any way to do anything until we close these things so this is really critical and then we will be happy to to hear and to see whether we can do more things or not but these are different discussion that will not take place until we finish this documents "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:38",
    "text": "so we have these two documents as we have just discussed the one on ipv6 over CB then we\u0027ll see how this reviews has been considered and the the use case a survey and pro statement so we will deal with that into the slots that we have in the indigent ax then this is the addendum the first part is the Minister tibia which is what we are going through then we have a report on the hackathon that took place in this meeting on the IP will exceed protocols from Paul and then after that we put that in again the first because we leave this may be a useful thing to do this hackathon to progress the work then we will go into the ipv6 working with documents the ipv6 over CV and the survey from a statement use cases document and this is really important to have the discussion on this to really try to close the pending issues that we may have so this is the main part of the agenda and if we are located 20 minutes for each of them but if we need more that\u0027s the priority and we will we can state discussion on those more time if required then we have additional topics that will be presented type of meetings one on ipv6 we call our neighbor discovery by Paul then we have fun are benign mobility implications from Fred some stuff on certificates from William some also proposal for mobility management from Paul so again these are non working group topic so this is just presentation for informational purposes at this point and there will be no discussion on adoption or anything like that on those documents yet because they are not in the Charter that is just for discussion for for the working group to see if there is interest on those and then what discussion at the end is if required so any comments on the agenda an agenda version okay so let\u0027s go to the hackathon part hello this is poor John up from SKT you so this time my University and the seung-hyun was the two universities in Korea we participate in a custom project he\u0027ll show or she be trapped and also one proposed the neighbor discovery a protocol were implemented and then we show the probe concept on the basis of the simulation first of all we want to make sure also be protocol working well so as a result I know she be I believe "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:38",
    "text": "it is a pretty good shape so it is working and also we implemented the proposed the neighbor discovery using multi about EAD using the optimization every node or no mark proposed these optimization so we implemented on this multi up dat basis pick your neighbor discover discovery so basically you can see this is the poster for our customs of our code details next slice so this photo shows you can see several people are participating and is a hackathon project this figure is the possible picture or natural architecture so you can see here bottom we have the beakers a beaker can communicate with each other via BtoB link and also you can talk to Ric by a p2i the most important thing else the RC you wireless think these are su one another as agent Odyssey on I had a wireless link is the combined which means they are using shared other prefix the purpose is to minimize the update of IP address over vicar Trevor along its a navigation path and also once a peeker configure that they can talk to each other and also talk to our SEO so if the vicar one has some connectivity with Vee cursory they can talk to each other prior that connected the vicar along network rather than going to in front at all and then forward another in front node and a forward or so we take advantage of a picture or scenario because the safety case the pker to be communication is important or sufficient so we well certain cases the beaker can talk to some cloud server in the case that we - I should be used so we clarify that the link can be a multi-link a subnet logically one link physically yet multi per our shields are embarked so based on this vehicle or link model the beaker can configure using multi ad so our SEO and mobile mobile to anchor maybe this is possible just the scenario not necessarily the solution so we tried to other address we needed to minimize the address the computation overhead so this you can see can configure register "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:38",
    "text": "IP address eventually the mobile the anchor has also IP address information so mobility anchor in charge over multi / RS you use multiple additives also providing connectivity because right so if they have the some address information they can easily detect addressed complete so we try to minimize the traditional dat overhead using this so for simulation we have a tool simulator the first one is that this figure shows the Vicker mobility simulator it is called a sumo sumo means that the simulation for urban mobility so developed by Germany and secondly this figure shows the network simulator it is called on the plus plus so maybe you guys familiar with the NS 2 or 3 right so this is developed by European countries I think that the German Germany is the leading yeah country to develop this is a so we combine two simulator so mobility of a peeker simulated resume oh and the file a Mac IP simulation is done on the plus process okay so two simulators are interactively communicated with the message passing so we have a 2 p RS you to beaker mobile anchors so we implemented the multi-hop dat so this time we implemented the pker structures to enable the beaker enable discovery so we observed the protocol stack you can see the waves tag I Triple E 1609 the left yes tag is a tcp/ip a stack and right hand is w SMP vapor zone messaging protocol for safety message exchange so our ITF has interested in this left hand side the Phi R Mac logical link control and Alex proper proposed OCB has some sort of a logical link layer control to provide the ethernet layer education a year right so we implemented at this so this time we implemented Alex the OSI be a draft and then we showed the flow concept the OSHA B and also our Vic you are unable discovery so we used this simulation stop next time we will implement the Monte Rio meeting we implemented a possible or mobility management esteem for our IP wave so this shows the development environment and this shows the open "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:41",
    "text": "source project so we are working using github so our working with people can download and the test or she be and never discover it is so next time we implement the mobility management okay three and only so the OCD support is already there in the Linux drivers and all that right in open source also yeah right your implementation is only specific to actually you know she big case we learning or she be and it\u0027s an adaptation layer so we implemented that for our Alexis\u0027s that are after isis current the OMS plus providing the panes that project it doesn\u0027t provide very high so to be clear in the similarity improvement is in case Alex I believe it already in from day he will report to reheat the presenters right okay so we take advantage of that simulation dear implement okay so this is a youto be youtube link so you can click this writer you can show simulation stuff so this is a peeker area that talk this is a motor net talk so to simulator are interconnected and then they work together so the simulation is the process that we can approach concept and there was that we can implement Linux basis that is our claim so hopefully my team skk we keep our working for hackathon project we after the chattering we develop the protocols and then we working a simulation first and then we can implement Linux basis yes implementation okay that\u0027s it okay thank you thank you sorry I have one one comment or question so this hackathon experience was mostly focused to evaluate one of your proposals right but it\u0027s not focus or what does focus on evaluating the the ipv6 RLC be working with document that we have to see and help if the issues as has been brought up to get some experience with that right so that\u0027s my my main question because I think it\u0027s all about to do hackathon on on any proposal that\u0027s for sure I think that what we need that they\u0027re working about this point is to really help close in the issues with with the ipv6 over CV document so did you do any experiment or anything related to that yeah so our hackathon okay power over our cousin the OSI be implemented without OCD we cannot implement a neighbor discovery so that is our point so we already implemented as a Chris you can in in this hack so named Chris skk "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:42",
    "text": "you so in this act hack so we have implemented the ipv6 Ronnie on OCD mode so the packet transmitted from received and transmitted in a vehicle is based on the OCP mode yeah so the basically we as you know that there in the OSI be models PSM message also now we implemented the ipv6 package so that people six package can go through the eyepiece v6 step yeah so then the packet the header based on the draft in the current working group so the that so there\u0027s a temptation layer so actually the packet can be translated to the up layer yeah okay so and then doing that did you notice any any issue that needs to be brought up to the attention of the working group to be taken for implementing the basic or ipv6 or cv document based on our current inventory don\u0027t have an issue with that yeah it works fine okay that\u0027s beautiful okay thank you can frankest again so your whatever you developed are you using a real radio or using a triggered eleven OCP at all no the radio or is it no there\u0027s no radio in the picture providing late year so they provide okay but it\u0027s not okay but free idealistic later model so yeah we can trust yeah so probably see ya move on hello my name is Aleksandra Pettis crime I speak now and my co-authors are Panama Jong Kook Lee and Terry Ernst I am going to present advancement of transmission of ipv6 packets over right tripoli 802 dot 11 networks in mode outside the context of a basic service set I have a couple of slide to couples of sides since last IETF the versions are from 31 to 34 there was much to toriel changes I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:44",
    "text": "will present in the next slides I take this opportunity to also add three other points here I presented this draft also to the ITU collaboration on ITA standards group which is in Beijing Geneva they had an invitation pending to us and we I presented this draft and its advancement to them second is that we demonstrated again ipv6 running on a 2.11 OCB in a particular context which is the vehicle-to-vehicle communications that uses three cars well v2v is a paradigm but there are three core so it\u0027s not V 2 V 2 V but it\u0027s a 2 times V 2 V there is a subnet between front car and middle car and another subnet between middle car and rear car two distinct subnets owned on each of them we run ipv6 over OCD it has been the most triode and demonstrated several times since December we have filmed we have shown to several high-profile attendees and we\u0027ll show it again during 2019 and probably beyond now also this draft ipv6 survey 802 11 o CB is also considered at Etsy et si which is a European standards development organization that develop a new item work item there and potentially a new group which is called the paper that we write right now it\u0027s called ipv6 based v2x communications and in it I\u0027m going to describe soon something about this ipv6 overall CB so this draft if it is progressed it is going to be used at least at Etsy et si also ISO TC to offer but that that is another activity that I\u0027m not talking here right now so these are the changes overall since last ITF now let me please take this what happened the new versions from 31 to 34 they are all on these slides in Reverse time order I\u0027ll start with 34 we updated a reference to a draft that has now become VG item which is a multicast issue Mota cause problems for 802 11 it\u0027s now working group item so simple reference update in 33 some substitution of movement detection for handover behavior introductory text removed redundant phrase referring to security "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:45",
    "text": "consideration sections we removed the phrase about link forming mechanisms since IP is not very much concerned about how the link layer 2 links are formed so we remove that phrase it\u0027s more confusing than clarifying removed several phrases about UI txt and mark presence in ipv6 addresses since recently at IDF we considered that ipv6 addresses have interface IDs that do not depend on MAC addresses neither on our UI so things can privacy aspects could be respected and this is one known information but we have clarified an example into which there exists poverty privacy risks of company IDs being present in MAC addresses in public roads ok so basically if you go now on many public roads and you listen to roadside units you would notice MAC addresses and company ID present in these MAC addresses so that could be considered as a privacy risk clarified that nd must be used over 8 or 2.11 OCB which is a good thing because in practice we noticed that nd works well over 800 2.11 Aussie B and some estate some beautification of text we moved absurd the name section from main section to end of security consideration and clarify the world concurrently capitalized a should world about Wi-Fi multicast problems and refer to more recent idea on topic which is this one ok now on version 32 significantly shorten the relevant in the overall CB paragraph and now after many discussions and many reviews about nd the paragraph just states that nd is used over 8.11 ocb without detailing ok so this is a clarification that appears here very simply but it is the result of very much discussion especially with participants from the six man working group that are the experts in this field in version 31 well an earlier reviews the section title sudonym handling without suggesting the text so then somebody else proposed to fill in that section and get provided the text specialist in pseudonyms and we removed the may not phrase about possibly having other prefix than the link local on the link between car between cars now it is possible to to put other prefixes than just the link local "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:46",
    "text": "prefixes initially we said that probably will may not use any other prefix than the link local prefix but now the text is written such that it is possible to put some other than link local that means ula or global prefix between between cars we shortened and improve the paragraph about mobile ipv6 mobile ipv6 was there since the beginning then it got removed then added it back but it was too long so now it is shortened and it is improved mobile ipv6 is a great protocol used for mobility in IP and it is a very good candidate for use for cars especially if we consider its network mobility extensions so now in our draft we have a short paragraph saying that mobile ipv6 is possible and how well 802 dot 11 OC be being a 802 dot 11 link which means Wireless links there may be need of some option some I mean optimization some improvements on neighbor discovery and DNA is such a protocol for connecting a car to the roadside unit DNA dynamic network attachment which improves on on some parameters of nd so we just now we added this reference to the N DNA v6 together but we don\u0027t go indeed yeah sure so Alex I thought DNA v6 is fact it never took offer it\u0027s practically dead the document was withdrawn so why I referred to that how I missing something or am I forgetting okay well I learned it\u0027s dead I learned now it is dead I thought it\u0027s an RFC with no serration jumping yeah it\u0027s an RFC there\u0027s like some variations of it like being implemented not exactly Isis right but yeah it\u0027s an RFC 60 59 and there\u0027s like so like I think Google or not will have some variations of it in implementation not exactly Isis yeah I mean it\u0027s this separate thing it would be useful to capture what\u0027s actually been implement and because it\u0027s subset variants of that stuff that\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s the best thing we have to refer to this in in RFC sharing you should do something like this right even if it\u0027s not exactly yeah that\u0027s how the text is right now Eric so it pretty much is like something like this should be used and not exactly that so it\u0027s very very exemplary text in there and I think it\u0027s a good point you brought up like maybe we need to sit down and probably do a bit nothing I just didn\u0027t have the bandwidth to do it right now but we can talk about it after okay so that\u0027s clarification about mobile ipv6 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:47",
    "text": "and ene v6 and improved that will be the text nd text about nd retransmissions with relationship to packet loss and again some aesthetics improvements change the title of an appendix from APD to protocol layering well APD was suggested earlier by ite expert standing for all I forgot a packet discriminator these disc emitter and we moved it to protocol layering because that section just shows layers of protocol so protocol layering was was a better title for for the section and improve the aspects introduced by OC be appendix with a few phrases about the channel use and references that that\u0027s or CB an important aspect of all CB is that it uses channels that are particular to them okay at five point nine giggles and we added references to some relevant documents our Jesus a question from jabber yep on the previous slide which Etsy group is making a normative reference to our work let\u0027s get you behind it\u0027s called IP six well I I don\u0027t think it\u0027s I P 6 well IP 6 is a group out Etsy but it\u0027s not that one yep IP six is a great group at Etsy but it is not that one where we document being discussed there so I thought okay maybe it\u0027s a new group now there is only IP 6 this IP 6 specializing in v2 X and it has documents for ipv6 over anything so that uh so that was it next logical talk document to publish now physics yeah well that\u0027s let you flooded etc right yes specialist in starting new group so that could be this is being discussed on ipv6 so it\u0027s not on the t3 on ideas yes it is a TC ideas intelligent transportation system so yeah so this is a something that should be clarified and we will pursue as this draft is for sure that idea so that\u0027s a the modifications to the graph up until February now in February something new happened but we received a review review "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:53",
    "text": "from four to internal directorates and this review has many comments and questions inside many of them are clarifications that could be very easy to fix some of them are more delicate discussion for example the first one is a question in the ethernet adaptation layer the question from this video is whether an Ethernet adaptation layer is that we described in this draft is it different than ap bridging is this any different than an access point that bridges between its Ethernet interface to Wi-Fi interface the answer is yes it is different in that our ei L Ethernet allocation layer does not bridge between two different interfaces it links a lower layer to an upper layer any France on a machine that has only one interface physical and no virtual interface so there is no any form of bridging in the traditional sense of ITF seeing bridging and is this again the question is this different than an access point bridging between Ethernet Wi-Fi no it\u0027s not different it bridges between layers so it\u0027s a game of words but it it is it is different no difference in time so with this explanation eyes I hope we can keep the the text as it is right now I hope it fits the requester and the review now say a second question which is a little bit a little bit harder and it may take time to discuss knowing that a discussion is a exchange of messages and not a one-way discussion it\u0027s not a discussion so the the review suggests the use of 6lowpan and 6-love no no okay so it does not okay so I disagree because the link is not a total 1504 so my disagreement is not okay so it does not suggest the use of 6006 sketchier so I made that review so maybe you can tell you what it\u0027s sighs yeah so I was suggesting to consider what we go 6lowpan nd which is not the six lap army the compression I guess that you\u0027re talking about which was specific to 15 for six lap on a and D now evolved into six learnable discovery which is RFC eight five four five and what I was suggesting to you is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:53",
    "text": "to consider the methods that are explained in RFC eighty five of five which are designed for wireless operation and more adapted to the plan that you are here than the traditional methods that you find that RFC 48 61-62 because those were designed for transit links there which is exactly not what you have here yeah it\u0027s okay it\u0027s a good suggestion I take it into account we take you know is it appropriate I mean is it implemented what does low on six low mean is it low power cars don\u0027t have low power a big power so these are questions so I hear the comment I\u0027m not opposed to adding some reference saying that some six low and D over Wi-Fi over wireless could be appropriate but no more than that okay so you\u0027re saying let\u0027s use something which is not appropriate and let\u0027s not explain how you can do the appropriate thing okay that\u0027s your decision so Pascal so there\u0027s two things right so one of them is like you know it\u0027s not optimize this one thing but but do you have any issues like considering whether this will work or not right because there\u0027s like a bunch of implementations out there of this right so I think if you can like you know probably bring up like in a few of the things I think the better way for doing this like in my head right at least like document like what are the shortcomings of like using the classic nd in there and then leave it up to a future version to do like the more automatic one like does that make sense to you yes that\u0027s pretty much how I did my review or ask specific questions like how what do you expect from duplicate address detection in that space if you use 48 61 versus if you use 8 5 4 5 I mean we we have scoped what you can expect from that and so by having this registration between the two peers then they can agree that they can use the particular you link local drives between those peers without any risk of a collision with a third party so which which is designed for a network like that as opposed to the expectation you have on tradition on that which is I died once and forever and they will never get a duplication as long as I stay on this link which is exactly not what you\u0027re doing on a network like this personally for me right like you know not the idea hat on like you know what I would like is like probably if you can help Alex with some text on the shortcomings and say you know like this is like you know left for future work right because right now this is like 802 11 OCB and then like you just say ok this is what we\u0027re doing right now and like you know put in like some kind of grab bag of issues to look at later like you know probably in the next version of the document or a different document and I think that would like you know be both expedient and also respectful of the current implementations ok yes ok "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:56",
    "text": "so just pointing out that there are things which work very well when you have an experiment with three devices when you throw there by the internet it might be different sure I think in general I think we should keep their angry discussion out of this side yeah I think leave it to you know refer to the base you know in these specs and not go with too aggressive on law but that you go with 6lowpan whatever those optimizations right I think the center this is an operating environment is different you need to properly you know write a proper Spector and do that so I agree with you I think we don\u0027t have to be too aggressive and say that you know let\u0027s use 6lowpan India or something just let\u0027s say classic Andy but with the consideration that it will it is not optimized it will not work in the way it is expected to work right so just leave it okay thank you Chris just for our information so we have in our action project we have implemented minimum size of Andy so which is based on some concept in 6lowpan which is suggested by a person last time so yeah just for your information thank you okay I think we have some good next steps here can you send like a node like you know what other things you implemented in the hackathon for this like Oh specifically what from 6lo Andy that would be really good if you can send a note to the list or even at least to me so I\u0027m gonna present in the following there is a draft related to these also related to what we have implemented yeah Thank You Dorothy Stanley Dorothy Stanley so I think with a 6lowpan work we need to separate out the 15.4 components from with changes to neighbor discovery ipv6 that have been optimized separately that could really used on any network I agree with you hear that if the implication was of the app that the application was only a 15-4 that\u0027s not where we are it\u0027s not relevant so if you know from that point of view the question is given neighbor discovery we have a base we have a baseline which is the baseline you know well-defined understood neighbor discovery can that be optimized in any way and what\u0027s in the document now is the baseline so given that we want to get the draft out quickly we went on you know it seems to me fine to go with the current baseline a future work project of understanding are there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:57",
    "text": "there may be optimizations that can be applied to the extent that between now and the publication of the document we have a better understanding of that based on the hackathon work potentially we can incorporate some of that but this sounds like a great area for future work this is Carla so if I if I got the discussion the consensus well Devi is that we keep the document document in the baseline but we also the commanders are Commons we mentioned as our comments that may be in place by using the baseline indeed but we leave those potential investments or mitigation of those or comments for different work not to be included in this document as that\u0027s correct it was a long phrase but yeah I think that\u0027s what I had to like from everybody who spoke up okay Chris skk you so I agree with the previous questioner so definitely we can utilize some operations in 6lowpan yeah thank you so then Alex Pascal before you leave sorry so I I would like to ask you both do I Alex to to respond to the review that Alex posted because I think that that\u0027s yet to be done to respond on the mailing list - I\u0027ve seen it I\u0027m sorry if it was posted no no no I think not that\u0027s why I am I\u0027m asking to do it because I haven\u0027t seen that no so I will respond to the review publicly and to UNCC and we try to close the all the the comments by saying we are doing this or we believe that this will be the how well I can produce a little bit of text based on what Suraj said which is my understanding was explained shortcomings of what we get today if we just stick to the baseline and you probably put a link on six slow ones well well snd basically which is which was done at six loan at 6lowpan and which is not at all 15 for specific okay so does Dorothy side okay that will be great because then once we have done that we can\u0027t keep on progressing the document to next steps but before before doing that we need that new revision and that comments posted to the mailing list okay so just you know I would start by posting that review he will suggest some texts we have the revision we will pick it up from there yeah okay sorry I need to rush to the airport yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:02",
    "text": "you know well I had the last slide but well this is my last slide I would like to make an observation at several instances for example in the Andy discussion we turned in circles that means we modify back and forth the same thing without any actual improvement and worse without any relation to implementation we discuss things that don\u0027t get implemented and what\u0027s implemented does not get reflected in the text this is a an aspect that is not very good for Standardization activity and I would like to ask to please progress the draft through iesg and publication we have it running when I present the demonstration I\u0027m talking many things many acronyms and I would like to really say this is ipv6 over OCB RFC that is implemented and it is used between these great cars there are many other great technologies there but I would also like to say there is an RFC that is implemented in this put there so Alex I I hear what you\u0027re saying right but the thing is like you know there\u0027s like lot of people who question like how specific things were done in the implementation and there\u0027s like no response right and that\u0027s why things are taking a bit longer they say okay like how does this NS message work and there\u0027s no response from an implementer like Russ and Carlos sent out messages asking for specific input some implementations and didn\u0027t get a response right so if there\u0027s implementations the implementers need to speak up like and if you know of them like you know get them to speak up because a lot of the questions are like probably simple misunderstandings that can be clarified by people explaining what they did and and how they made it work right because that was like you know what I\u0027ve seen as ad seeing like holding the stuff back right like so we have like lot of revisions of the draft but there\u0027s like some questions that were not answered right and so it could be I don\u0027t think everything requires text in the draft if somebody clarifies how they\u0027ve done it it may or may not like require like a sentence in the graph explaining how it was done right so but the thing is like an IETF RFC is not just for like you know this group right like you know we need to make sure that like the rest of the IETF understands this too and that\u0027s why III don\u0027t think we can say like hey like you know have an implementation and we like you know there\u0027s like you know four implementations we decide to make it work and that\u0027s not gonna cut it at the IETF level okay so that that\u0027s something I\u0027m just telling you up front right like new so to expect set the expectations properly because of a signal guy could like our girl could come and do a review and say like hey like you know how does this work and we have to explain it\u0027s it\u0027s not optional that like you know the rest of the IETF understands this right so that\u0027s so I\u0027ll just set the expectations right like once this IOT and interviews are done "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "I\u0027m gonna set send the document forward okay and it\u0027s gonna go to I T of last call and you\u0027re gonna get like all kind of reviews like there\u0027s gonna be questions about security there\u0027s gonna be questions about condition control and we need to answer them so it\u0027s not really optional saying like hey it works it\u0027s not like a good justification for like you know skipping all those things okay so it takes as long as it takes because like we\u0027re doing this for the internet okay okay make sense I will retake the reviews and reply the particular questions that asking how it works in this for somebody who\u0027s not being involved in the process right so like when I read a document from let\u0027s say like a security area or something like I have like no background knowledge of anything so the only thing I have is a document in front of me and the normative references right if it doesn\u0027t make sense I\u0027m gonna ask questions even though it may seem stupid to the person like who wrote the stuff saying hey this is like something we already know but the question is how clear the document is so that\u0027s why I just want to set the expectations straight for you okay thanks yeah so yeah okay when we have time we will discuss a little bit security if you want also that\u0027s a weak point but yeah security is important and I can also explain about security now I think I\u0027m the end at the end of my slot okay I likes like take as much time as we need this is a primary deliverable of the working group so if there\u0027s something yeah security is not implemented on duty Devon on CB okay I\u0027m not aware of any deployment that secures these messages now is that a problem for me it is a huge problem is it it should be easy to solve like just like just putting in the security consideration say what\u0027s being done what\u0027s not being done and how are people mitigating the stuff right because at some point you\u0027re gonna have to put it because like once the security ad puts in a discuss we\u0027re gonna have to write it too so mitigate this by saying this is five points nobody knows and like if you do foresee this issue like you know start putting some text in and because like we see in like a lot of routing protocols like you know say like hey we don\u0027t need security and like you know because we know the domains like that didn\u0027t cut it right like so there\u0027s a lot of document stuck in the I he is she like until like these kind of things get done I think yes we huge we need the security but we are not at a point where "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:03",
    "text": "people realize this means because people have not yet started to buy these talking cars and have not yet seen these roadside units once they realize they there is attacks possible then security will come in place and probably the easiest or that will come is VPN and VPN is not very well adapted for v2v okay thanks Dorothy Stanley to address the security topic so my understanding is that I Tripoli 1609 together with an Etsy equivalent and I see William white is on the miracle who have it that he\u0027s been involved in getting a common certificate infrastructure defined across both at sea and in 1609 so the security for all of these frames is handle the upper layers and there are definitions for it so I think a reference to those organizations and the work that they\u0027ve done it\u0027s one way to approach this secondly I\u0027d like to reassure you okay you are doing great work all right thank you I know I know it\u0027s not easy it\u0027s not easy to stand up there and take the arrows from everybody who\u0027s you know bringing that to you it\u0027s the process it\u0027s not personal okay you are doing great work you are the one up here doing this work of all the people on the planet okay that are standing up here so don\u0027t be discouraged right thank you and you will have a great product for you William before you in the queue is it okay sure yeah I just want the echo well Dorothy just add those the approach that\u0027s being taken has been to apply security at higher layers yeah it\u0027s I don\u0027t think it\u0027s fair I really didn\u0027t think it\u0027s fair to say that this hasn\u0027t been deployed you know there are there are talking cars out there those there\u0027s a VW deployment coming this year where they\u0027re going to have up to five million cars equipped with this technology and yes there is security but by and large is applied at the application layer or at the network layer it\u0027s not applied to the IP layer was great I\u0027m eager to see this what I\u0027m seeing now is I see a roach all units deployed I see some talking cars and they are not secured so you want me to somebody the physical mic I heard "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "shrieking so I don\u0027t know I think it\u0027s like okay go for it so yeah in the context of this document I\u0027m just wondering is it already talking about the link layer security or like some application letter W simply some higher-level and some application layer security or what exactly is this do we need to focus here so that\u0027s not yet to me yeah so will a mouth greatly appreciated if you can like send us a note like some kind of pointers like I don\u0027t mind if it\u0027s solved at the application layer I just want like something to say like hey we are expecting this to be solved at the application layer and that\u0027s how it\u0027s gonna deal with this kind of network kind of threats right so we still like that doesn\u0027t absolve us from doing the threat model for this and and showing how you\u0027re gonna solve it so if it\u0027s done at a different layer all we need is a statement saying hey this is how we expect to address this and this how it\u0027s gonna take care of it that\u0027s all we need right so the thing is the only thing that\u0027s not gonna work is to say if you\u0027re not gonna do anything it\u0027s different from saying hey I\u0027m gonna handle this at a different layer so I think like Michelle was like putting in some of the stuff for the the cam message stuff in there so I I think it could be what we need to do is like document like you know what are the threats and how we propose to handle them that\u0027s like really what we need to do not exactly do everything again in this layer yes sir is this free I\u0027m not quite sure sir - I think in the context of this we\u0027re just talking about transmission or ipv6 frames right so unless we bring in ND or other things the security the threat model can be totally changed you know based on you know what we bring into this context so I don\u0027t know if you should go you know too much into that but you know just leave it at the point we set this 16 not to security then this obviously Indy you know Indy way security and just loosely referred to different documents and that\u0027s about it that\u0027s what my recommendation of yeah so within at sea there\u0027s been a number of documents developed and published and the nice thing about ETSU standards is that by and large they\u0027re available for free so there\u0027s a TBR a a threat vulnerability and risk assessment there was done or goes on for the IDS saying and if you doesn\u0027t Google at the EITS gvra I forget the number of that document but he does fool that you\u0027ll be able to find us and then throughout the working group one the one group five in at TTC IDs there have been a number of publications about security there isn\u0027t kind of one single document that summarizes over it\u0027s a it\u0027s a standard so there\u0027s a standards organization to those number of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:04",
    "text": "different standards that address different sayings but for the threat model and the security model are fairly clearly laid out in all of those ETSU documents and as I say they\u0027re publicly available and free I mean if it\u0027s also true story that there is no no consideration given to IP security and it would be worthwhile perhaps for this group sorry my dog it\u0027d be worth it be worthwhile for this group to do a security analysis of threat analysis specifically the IP part the routing part and see if doing it in this setting requires any additional security considerations so that\u0027s something that hasn\u0027t really been doing that so there\u0027s been a bit of security analysis of the JIRA networking pros all but not a lot of IP itself ok we\u0027re gonna go to Tony than shush hi Tony Lee former implementer and I don\u0027t mean to sound like the dog but I\u0027m gonna whine about security so this is a radio ok anybody can send to you so there\u0027s not much we could do about that the link layer security has to be referenced and it\u0027s not our job okay that\u0027s very much out of scope and we should say that and we should point to what we want people to use for the link layer security and I don\u0027t actually know what the right answer is at the network layer this is an IP network we got nothing okay we still have no decent security at the IP layer in any of our implementations so there\u0027s not much we can say and above that it\u0027s just application security and that\u0027s a well-known thing yeah make sense Jenny that\u0027s exactly what I was suggesting like put in the link layer security and like an application security that\u0027s it and and probably throw in a reference to send just to like roll out the thing like even though you know there\u0027s not much implementation of this right so that\u0027s kind of what we did for nd saying like hey like you know if you think you know like protect against like the rogue neighbor discovering messages like you know put in some references to send and and probably are a guard or something like that and then move on right but it\u0027s like just don\u0027t leave it empty like just like talk about the stretch and whether or not we handle them that\u0027s it okay yep Alex you may want to look at the jabber log there\u0027s a couple documents pointed to in there that you should just be a bladder from system Thanks hello uh this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:08",
    "text": "is a portal I\u0027m an editor or Batista document I p-wave the problem statement and use cases less the December are Charlie Porky\u0027s and January late January or early February are three Kondapalli gave the value of a commenter we address the I tried to order his comment their comment and also i clarify key work items for our a problem statement such as the neighbor discovery and mobility management and security and privacy so major updates are the first one is a reflection of Charlie and the tree is a comment very useful comment and also I try to add gap analysis for existing protocols I summarized the existing protocol along with their pros and cons and also try to say some requirement for further step the other one is a link model for bikal or network architecture so I clarify that one the last early problem statement the case especially our vehicle or neighbor discovery and the mobility management on text I improved this is the vehicle architecture so you can see multiple radio that can be combined or use they share the prefix we tried to minimize the overhead of address comparation along the vicar Trevor along in a beaten path but it going to some other a prefix domain definitely configure another of free picks for each IP address so Lincoln model we are discussed before right so we consider lady or model and also we can extend the traditional classical neighbor discovery wait a week Euler link model the important thing is we needed to provide the simultaneously with two I and we to be together with the external interface with the singer a global IP address also I address the arrogant Auto marks the comment we take advantage of lightweight the ad such as a multi hub dat to minimize computation overhead the 48 which used unicast TDR are a rather than multicast array and also the one thing is that the neighbor discord protocol also can be used for routing purpose so if we are learning additional loading so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:08",
    "text": "the floating overhead also did it added it so maybe how we can take advantage of a neighbor discovery providing purpose so this is the example a beaker the neighbor discovery so the beaker can configure using RSU and mobile anchor so the Christian he really implemented it is also we hack us on right so he will explain later than his presentation so I skip it and the mobility management case we have a two requirements the first one is a seamless connectivity during a week remote or movement the second one is a timely data exchange between two and the host or one and host and server so based on this requirement we have a to a police person the first one is a proactive or mobility management a second one is a network-based and a mobility management so the let me explain one by at a time and the first one is proactive we can take advantage of a mobility information such as speed attraction and the position and a trajectory it\u0027s real actually means navigation paths because the Beeker is specific a ton of the beaker it equipped with a navigator right with the GPS receiver or whether this information we can offer prompt for active the handover which means the vehicle moving around and they can hand over operation can be done in other bands that is a very important feature the second one is genetic-based so network doesn\u0027t care right so it\u0027s a location so network infrastructure or take care of that attachment so ta d routing and handover can be performed by network infrastructure one example is our VIP address the computation can be done multi up dat and the unit case the re so this is the one proposed so in the end of this the session if there is a time I will explain on this one but the important message is that we can using the current DMM working group to work probably read or some extension are required but we can take advantage over their work so the person one is proxy based mobile IP based handover and also DMM based hand over so next step is I believe at this PS document the shape is it looks good I believe so we want to lab up this proper statement document at this time and the working group last call and then we once we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:10",
    "text": "publish our accuracy we can start discussion for the top three thank you in cripple so two comments or well one is that we need to to ask as Rianne and Charlie to take a look at the latest version and see if the comments you post do you post it have been addressed or not so we need that kind of feedback from front you guys so sweet yes Sri I didn\u0027t get a chance to look at the latest I believe it was posted very just before the IETF right so the in general I think my only request is don\u0027t go too aggressive it\u0027s a solution space if we can please leave it at the problem straight this is the problem state the problem that\u0027s it right don\u0027t have an arc I think the problem initially in the initial versions what I found there is an architecture in its getting reflected all or that and specific solutions so that is that\u0027s why I think if you can fix that make sure okay thank you Anna and then I have a request for you guys so the review from this free was posted on February beginning of February and then you posted the revision after the cutoff of the 80s so it usually guys want to have these work progress you cannot wait until that late because this is gonna delay at least one iteration this and I hope that the next revision Astor\u0027s we posted to the comments is not arriving before ITF okay of course no late after the cutoff okay I put the high priority on this list okay thank you keep in mind thank you [Music] [Music] okay good morning so this is Chris from skq so I\u0027m gonna present this IP basic neighbor discovery for IP based recurrent networks so for this for this craft I need to declare that we have this patent the process related to this draft so based on the requirement from the University yeah so the as presented so this work is based on the the IP babe PS document so this is a possible solution for the neighbor discovery in bicular environment and the topics in this draft include the following the definition of mink modem in this draft we defined an some new link model which is may be similar to the 6lowpan and also we have defined the optimization process for the third that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:10",
    "text": "is the active handover with the body with neighbor discovery process in mobility amendments so this subject is taken out or added to a new new working new draft so the third one is MAC address pseudonym pseudonym hand with B and D okay as as many of you already know he said this architecture so so we have defined this subnet subnet so all because we share this shared prefix so that we have configured the IP address based on these share the prefix so then when the vehicle moved to the range of ICU so the ice you can be considered as the router so the vehicle can configure its IPO just based on the neighbor discovery process yep so yeah based on this just IP address registration process you can avoid so-called multicast own problem because due to the any energy and wine is channel conservation because if we consider in the future I thought but electrical vehicles moving on with dominate the market so the energy issue need to also be considered so another issue is that so through this infrastructure based address registration so recurse information need to be registered in serving ICU yeah for the efficient mobility management and folder okay so some one question on the previous like this tree so the way you talked about the pseudonym pseudonym that was yeah yeah I think so yeah this is maybe two others as well not just you the presenter but you want to William R so if you replace the you know you\u0027re rotating the max as I understand but will there be a stable pseudonym that will always be present in the packets that\u0027s not it\u0027s not clear to me yeah I agree yeah yeah so actually it so they could we need to figure out some pseudo naming operation yeah you know yeah I think we can ask yeah yeah again this is something the it\u0027s made complicated by the factors in general people of thought about securing and more the application layers and ancillary layers biz in the in the u.s. system because old security is applied the application layer it isn\u0027t even just that there\u0027s a singles unum that you through a particular period of time different applications might use different pseudonyms and if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:10",
    "text": "they\u0027re used and if they\u0027re the applications are operating at the same time you might have different people operating at the same time so there\u0027s there are still open questions there about interaction between humans and MAC addresses in the Etsy system you have more of a coupling between the transport layer and the application because because packed assigned to the application layer and so it seems more likely than in the Etsy system even if your own local applications that you guys have one pseudonym operating at a given time but it\u0027s still the case that pseudonym will change fairly frequently the guidance is currently once every five minutes and that once you name changes all the other identifiers is change as well and so you you\u0027ll needs to redo neighbor discovery or you\u0027ll need some mechanism to reconnect to a device after exchange student them right yeah thanks for um that explains but I guess that also introduced bunch of problems right in the sense that if you\u0027re rotating the mag and if you are also rotating the pseudo name then I think the solutions that you are looking at none of them will work correctly some of them will not work so yeah noted thank you so okay so yes we also propose or suggest multi hope duplicate address detection so with this multi hub duplication adjust detection as we can see from here a weak co can configure its IP address and can make sure this IP address is unique through other vehicles through the v2v communication though this operation can extend the communications can extend the communication ability of the vehicle which is not in the range of ICU so yeah so then in the in detail so MA mobility anko need to maintain the neighbour cache and deity table so that mobility anchor should be in charge of this at the ad processor which means a because i pol should be sent to the MA to check if this unique or not then so yeah based on this a vq learnable discovery process actually the prefect discovery is the basic process and then in this neighbor discovery process we also suggest service discovery so if we you imagine that in the future autonomous vehicles moving out on the highway and so probably they each vehicle can help health they\u0027re on some specific service so if they can share these services based on this under "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:10",
    "text": "process that would be something new and something good yeah to improve the service and performance yeah so as it\u0027s stayed here a client in an internally the walk all can also contact to a server in a remote you know another internal network which it means is in another vehicle so here here are the major update from the previous version so we updated on shared prefix model and for the IP IP address configuration and we also designed we also include the cancellation of neighbor unreachable detection in the design codes yeah so in section 5.1 the we current network architecture is also updated based on this we consider to several subnet divisions and the through the v2v communication in section 7 we also added a new scenario to cover because who which is not in the coverage of ice use based on the adjust registration and multi-hop tid via relay vehicle he also in section 8 we just originally we put mobility a basic amendment process now we kind of moved this out as a independent independent draft so as yeah as Paul already proposed that this is how in actually it is implemented in our the Hexen project that you can see here we co2 can send the address registration to ICU then I see you send this Richard address registration message to them made so it maintains the ID table so it checks if this address is unique or not so it is the ideal path then create an AC in this multi Ranko then feed back the DAT without confirm that your IP address is unique so then so this is for the multi-hop the ID case so as you can see here a vehicle which is configured as an IPO just now it is out of the range of NASA so it can send the address registration through a relay vehicle then the relay week code where forward this deity message to annouce you then I sue for this true then MA so I made so the similar process go back to so to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:12",
    "text": "confirm this IP address is unique then so as I heard from the chairs so because to to the counter problem statement so before the counter problem statement document finished so this working will not receive any working with adoption console here we just put here so we suggest to adopt this document at the working group document and also in this excellent project we have implemented that the basic concept of this operation so hopefully in the future we were extended more and paste commands and the discussion with you guys thank you thank you yes yeah yes to qualify as we mentioned we cannot devote any work in any document as working group at this point because we are not chartered to do any additional work so we first need to finish what we have and then there will be a discussion to see whether we go for something else or we we close so just to play file that point okay thank you thank you Eric Mike I was gonna make a comment on the direction of this draft you started to reuse some of the things that have already been defined out of six lower and whatever but I think that you\u0027re doing more and more of that slightly different terminal and in the use cases are different but the fact that you have a mobility anchor point to me looks basically exactly the same as what\u0027s called the backbone router in the 6lo document so i think that you can actually restate this thing saying look here\u0027s actually applicability of that you know how you actually apply it to this this vehicular environment and this additional things like if you have this cases when you want them forward things through neighboring vehicles whatever type saying right but then you don\u0027t necessarily have to do new new protocol elements as part of this or at least it will be more clear what is actually missing what needs to be added specifically for this case I would actually suggest that you go look carefully at the backbone router document and the associated one so yeah thank you I think in general I think the document is assuming lot of things it\u0027s not clear to me so I think in my opinion I think we need to have proper analysis and we need to step back a bit I think all right so this is good I think whatever you are exploring but I think when it comes to the actual adoption there will be other proposals I think maybe this very based on six law maybe is based on something else right yeah but at least I plan to publish other spec saw so adoption at this time may be premature yeah Alex why through school I am Not sure there is some time for some technical aspects yeah so slide the seven and eight please slide seven "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:13",
    "text": "slide seven on this slide we see a vehicle performing address registration requests that is faster relayed by the roadside unit as a start multi-hop GED towards a mobility anchor and then the mobility uncle confirms or in films probably if the address already exists do you know that in vehicle v2 there is not just one address but there are many pieces in a vehicle yeah each one would have its own IP address are we going to see many address registration requests for each of the address in the vehicle or yeah I think that that should be done that should be done yeah because I mean we here we consider is that each vehicle should configure a global IP address be six address only one or several sorry only one address or several addresses one address only one from the bank so yeah actually so at the end of the our session I will explain the mobility management area so it going to different tricks for me it configure another global IP address until the session previous predicts the address is is over the maintain yeah okay thank you for the explanation so still on this slide when we do this address registration request is it what is going to happen to the existing diedie procedure like neighbor advertisement maybe use you know that the vehicle already has a existing da-ad procedure is it going to be overcome I mean the priority will be to this address registration request to confirm the ID or the priority will be to the normal de that is already running is executive who will be priority actually this address bujji situation request is in bystander and the undie process actually this is unless yes and the only only so this address registration is in the neighbor discovery process based on Andy okay yeah okay not and kinda we separate a new message yeah I have a some yet complementary comment so the probe our proposal one is we can override one speaker recognize it is is in the under load right so so it will be performed leather she enable discovery and this discovery case mess up so yeah we need select okay I just wanted to know the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:14",
    "text": "I\u0027m not sure it\u0027s going to be realistic to only have one IP address per vehicle I mean it seems natural to me from a privacy and security point of view to look at different applications wrong on the vehicle each rolling in their own virtual machine with their own stack you know to provide proper separation and so it\u0027s not to reveal to these drop Rivers you\u0027re rowing this particular combination of applications so I I would feel more comfortable if the system was designed to work with more than one IP address per vehicle no did so while we\u0027re on this topic this free again sorry how would the English prefixes so we are talking about the addresses that are configured on the on the egress or the ocv interface but how would the prefixes that are given to the vehicle will they be from the same mobility anchor in your mind in your whatever you guys are thinking or is it will it be somewhere else so it depends on the coverage of this immobility and Tomei of this immobility anchor so for a certain night if we can see their practice city so a district or like West Side West district of the city can be managed by this mobility anchor when the we can move to another mobility angle domain it need need to actually there are some more operations already to this process this there could be some optimization yeah that\u0027s fine but my question is will there be a topological relation between the addresses that are given for the inside networks and the egress address I think that\u0027s that\u0027s what I\u0027m trying to get to yeah yeah country in here up here we didn\u0027t consider the internal network so we just considered it just has interface outside interface so internal network there probably we need to consider yeah so in the absence of that this would be incomplete in my opinion but my follow-up question is like you know I think the question on addresses multiple addresses with Alex and William I agree you cannot assume that for today\u0027s times like a single orders will be that doesn\u0027t make sense in fact in all the mobile architectures we have been arguing that aue should be given a prefix right suddenly when we come to a close architecture why is that assumption should not hold I think that sauce is a cushion so maybe you know is it because egress we give a shared prefix and whereas ingress we give you multiple prefixes is also the cushion in fact it\u0027s running in the prefix see here we are talking about that this for the equation because interface so all of these concentrations are missing in this discussion yeah okay we need to cut the line so after Tony because we\u0027re already over time on this topic all right Tony Lee routing geek so this all goes to how IP works and IP addressing if the thing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:14",
    "text": "in the vehicle is changing addresses all the time all of your clients are going to be really unhappy if your addresses are going to be NAT \u0027add then it makes sense inside the vehicle to use private address space and yes I said private address space for v6 and I realize that some of you consider that heresy it\u0027s still the right thing to do if you don\u0027t have that private address space all of your clients are going to change every time your car drives another block because you\u0027re going to change your mobility anchor you\u0027re gonna change your prefix so you get down you\u0027re gonna change all of your addresses in your car you\u0027re gonna break all of your connections we do not have mobility in v6 today okay if you want to argue about that let\u0027s talk about IO and P offline if you so the simple thing to do is to just get a local vehicle address and you\u0027re done mmm okay so no topic okay so please take this to the mail list okay should I answer this question okay okay so based on what you just mentioned actually those mobile it\u0027s related to mobility management issues so actually there are several many standard offices ready to the mobile amendment process yeah as also its stated in Eric\u0027s draft right so also we can utilize the PME proxy mobile ipv6 hi I\u0027m Fred temple and I\u0027m from Boeing and I want to say that I\u0027m I\u0027m very proud to be working for Boeing and I want to say that it\u0027s also thank you our our leaders have made statements in the press and I I think the statements made in the press will reflect what we all feel as Boeing employees and for myself as an individual not speaking as a Boeing employee I very saddened about things that have happened and we\u0027re committed to to making things right in the future so with that in mind I just wanted to talk about what we\u0027re seeing in terms of urban air mobility implications for intelligent "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:14",
    "text": "transportation systems so urban air mobility concerns the introduction of manned and unmanned aircraft within urban environments nASA has initiated what they call the urban air mobility Grand Challenge in their seeking industry participation so there\u0027s a URL there that you can go to see about this so what we anticipate is a future introduction of low altitude aircraft within urban environments operating in harmony with ground transportation so autonomy and communications as for intelligent transportation systems the key enablers from urban air mobility are autonomy and communications but there\u0027s a fine balance between the advancement of autonomy and public safety and acceptance so industry and regulators need to work together vehicle to vehicle and vehicle the infrastructure communications become more important as personal air vehicles and unmanned air systems begin to enter the urban landscape and we see their urban mobility landscape evolving from a 2d to a 3d coordinated environment with safety as the first priority a common situation awareness picture personal air vehicles were employee vertical takeoff and landing and operate at low altitudes and so deconflict in both terrestrial and airborne congestion becomes a 3d of consideration and that means that urban air vehicles should employ a vehicle to vehicle and vehicle to infrastructure communications using wireless networking gear such as DSRC CVX etc the same is for terrestrial vehicles that we\u0027re talking about in this working group again an emphasis on safety Public Safety and confidence or the first priority autonomy in the urban environment is a certainty but how we get there safely is the challenge for industry and regulators so planning now for the future of urban mobility landscape we need to look at scaling in terms of the numbers of vehicles in three dimensions scaling in terms of communications navigation surveillance capabilities and safe separations in situation awareness for all autonomous vehicle classes I think that\u0027s all I have questions for Fred and basically I hear this as a call for action yeah there\u0027s a poor skq I think at the urban the mobility case also very importantly Hugh but probably yeah the tottering case we can\u0027t discuss it we can accommodate this kind of the urban the air of mobility should be covered our you\u0027re working Rona yeah so that\u0027s good thanks after the Civil Aviation Organization afraid just one clarification in your document you define the urban Eden ability below "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:16",
    "text": "400 feet and you consider only 3d and we know that to integrate this vehicles in the airspace you\u0027re gonna have to sometimes fly above that altitude yeah and we are moving towards for DUI you\u0027re considered only 3d yeah sure that\u0027s a very good point Sawa I think I should talk to you offline we can modify the drafted speak to that hi this is Aleksandr Petrescu I have a this level of detail I have also at the same level of question you are talking about a consideration of existing idea standards that automobiles already used and that would be used probably in the also by other objects like flying automobiles or something like that now in this space there are some continent distinction at this time for example there is BSM messages in America income message in Europe okay they are different non-interoperable and probably they were never interoperate and worse at SAE International which is an S do defines a set of levels of automatization ever 1 level 2 level 3 level 4 and so on and it only talks about speed like miles per hour never about kilometer per hour so are we going to see the same the same distinction reflected also into flying automobiles no yeah I think that\u0027s actually one of the results that\u0027s gonna come from the urban mobility Grand Challenge program so stay tuned this tree for know I give it yeah I think there\u0027s a good promised statement but is there a do you plan to bring some work into this working group or I\u0027m trying to see you know how this can be translated into some technical requirements III think I really haven\u0027t gotten to that level of consideration yes really I think there\u0027s definitely some potential a bit for technologies for example for civil aviation and this goes to Salas point we\u0027re talking now about 40 when we have you know ground air and time and all that comes into a 40 space do we want to talk about civil aviation within this group or would it be a parallel group I don\u0027t think we\u0027re at the point of proposing anything yet though all right now personally I\u0027m pretty you know this group has you know we can do some good work here now I hope you\u0027re stuck here with this ocv world but I really hope will go beyond okay non mark so are there already other stos that are working in this space I\u0027m sure that for regular you know an aircraft right there is there\u0027s stos that standardized communication but are the ones that are looking at sort of what\u0027s the split between yes we have to rush vehicles we have regular aircraft we have the space in between is that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:16",
    "text": "popping up elsewhere as well where we\u0027re seeing the standards develop in other standards organizations Salo is just speaking about international civil aviation organization and that\u0027s where a lot of the work gets started but then there are other standards industry is called rtca and ARINC rtca and ARINC are looking at what they call our paths remotely piloted aircraft systems which is also the pathway to unmanned air systems so our TCA AEC earring and ICAO are other areas where aviation standards are beginning to emerge but we want to bring those to the IETF and harmonize those with the IETF Airmen if we could sort of understand the requirements from from this space and how it relates to IPS that might be starting pretty good point William could you please get in the queue okay your slides are up great thanks like I can see them so this is a presentation about a modification to TLS to use copy of IDs certificates there is a an internet draft that specifies there\u0027s not just put the link to that in the chat and next slide please very earthy standard presentation structure next slide please so just note this in the CIT s context a new certificate format was defined in ieee trevally 69.2 annette c TS one oh three oh nine seven one three or nine seventh of profile 69 tubers will refer commits EITS cooperative ids talk of intelligent transportation systems certificates and their size optimized and they are also really designed for a an MDM saying and ad hoc networks where knowing the identity of the party you\u0027re talking to isn\u0027t the law of use or you really need to know it\u0027s their permissions so they they\u0027re designed around permissions in the way that x.509 certificates are designed around identity and next slide please and there\u0027s going to be a lot of there\u0027s going to be a lot of the CIDR certificates out there there the plan is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:18",
    "text": "for vehicles the party of anc IDs to be provisioned with 69.2 certificates and although 69.2 was CIE s certificates were originally designed for individual message communication so for sending cams or basic safety messages signing the individual message once you\u0027ve been provisioned with these certs is natural to look at is it possible to also use them for secure sessions such as TLS provides next slide please so here are some use cases for sessions and for all of these news cases we have existing customers we have standards organizations or ongoing deployments that would make use of them so SAE Society for automotive engineers k94t 5/3 is defining a mechanism that allows vehicles to report local weather conditions to a centre that makes plans to do over a secure session vehicle diagnostics being able to bring a walking device connected to V Hill securely prove that you\u0027re an approved diagnostic device run by an approved diagnostic technician get diagnostic information from the vehicle that\u0027s only the ISO 21 177 is trying to enable that would use secure sessions fleet management very similar carrying devices you want to have a persistent secure connection electric vehicle charging it\u0027s important to understand the capacity of the vehicle the charging capacity of the vehicle the level of the charge there\u0027s real public safety issues around electric vehicle charging and so you want that communication between the vehicle and the charging service to be authenticated again that\u0027s a secure session and just if you\u0027re looking at taking existing infrastructure and making it intelligent if you\u0027re looking at taking a traffic signal controller and attaching an RSU to us so that our human send signal phase and timing that\u0027s just spats or related messages to let people make mobility decisions again there isn\u0027t an off-the-shelf mechanism for doing that having a secure session Magnus would make a big difference with sanitised secure session mechanism next slide please and so the natural way to do this is with TLS TLS is the best supported best studied of all the secure session protocols out there TLS 1.3 which was just published last year is where as significant improvement on tier that\u0027s one point through in terms of road security and efficiency and its goal and natural extension mechanism that allows you to define a new certificate type so the the intent is to use that certificate size field to add this CITS the city of appetite next slide please "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:18",
    "text": "and so there\u0027s a lot to say on this slide in TLS you have a handshake the client sends its certificate the server sends it or the service center to difficut first but both the client and the server can say well so you get tight they\u0027re expecting to see and so in this case it would say a certificate type certificate all type 69.2 certificate next slide please there\u0027s one additional change that we\u0027re we\u0027re looking to make to the TLS state machine for want of a better word in standard TLS when you\u0027re doing a when you\u0027re proving possession of your certificates you use the server or the client you sign essentially a hash of all of the handshake messages to date and what you output from that is a raw signature so in the case of elliptic curve that\u0027s a 64-byte opaque blog for 69.2 certificates part of the permissions bottle of 69.2 is that whenever you sign something you create a 69.2 signed data that says this is exactly why I sign not just here\u0027s the data but here\u0027s the application domain that is relevant for and so on and so on so there\u0027s on verification you can check that yes this certificate was entitled to sign messages in this application domain and so to be consistent with that 69.2 philosophy rather than having the certificate verify with 69.2 certs be a raw signature the intent is to make it a 1609 dot to sign data that contains the signature it also contains all the other metadata 16.2 implementations expect to see so well that means is this your TLS implementation means to be modified not just to know this certificate type means we send different certificates but it means this certificate type means this we invoke a different application routine from the point of view of software it\u0027s it\u0027s still basically the same you have an interface that takes in data and puts out signature and in face it takes in data a signature in a certificate and I put through solves and verification it\u0027s just the inside that opaque blob that we\u0027re calling the signature there\u0027s more structure in the 69.2 case than there isn\u0027t the standard TLS case and we so I just wanna what you\u0027re really saying is even if cryptographic algorithm is the same underneath you\u0027re wrapping it in this other structure and so you just need an identifier for that algorithm where that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:21",
    "text": "means the traditional algorithm with the extra wrapper yeah yep okay thank you and we yeah obviously that\u0027s a change to the TLS logic and so that\u0027s something that needs to be discussed we had a good discussion on and off the TLS lift list with a Larry lose fara I\u0027m sorry for not nice name cleanly but we went down fourth Larry to make sure those there weren\u0027t any concerns whether and the outcome of vast discussion was that so long as we only use this approach with TLS 1.3 he didn\u0027t have any security concerns which is good because I think these are going to be new deployments we wants to encourage people to use here that\u0027s 1.3 and so locking it down to TLS 1.3 seems like a good decision anyway next slide please and so obviously a natural place for this to be turned into an RFT would be in the TLS working group so we presented it to the TLS working group and we the IP wave working group at the last idea from Bangkok the TLS working group wasn\u0027t interested in adopting it as a working group draft I think just as there was in law of overlap in in stakeholders the TLS working group is much more focused on kind of traditional internet saying but they said all you need to do for your purposes is going at a code point and have a stable reference so we got the code point for the the code point for the certificate type client server certificate type that was issued by I am a died in November last year and now what we need to do is get a stable reference code draft so as I noted earlier there\u0027s an ISO standard but it\u0027s actually quite close to being issued that needs reference this specification there\u0027s an SAE standard against quite clicks being issued that needs to reference the Iceland specification which needs your reference this specification so there\u0027s real kind of market demand for this to be finalized and stable and and so we\u0027re we\u0027re very interested in seeing what we can do to make that happen next slide please so in summary these are certificates they\u0027re going to be wide leaves they\u0027re going to be in old cars they\u0027re the basis of all of the CIE s deployments they\u0027re going on the moment we\u0027re seeing significant industry demand for support for secure sessions enabled by these the IPS certificates we\u0027ve got a code point we need a stable draft and I understands I didn\u0027t need to be charged for this group but given the TLS working group doesn\u0027t seem particularly interested in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:22",
    "text": "adopting this draft and it would be good for this draft to go through the scrutiny that you get from having a doctrine from a working group we we be interested in having a discussion that I\u0027ve got some necessary for this working group to adopt that draft and we went forward and that\u0027s it last slide just says thank you any questions so as we have said about the other drafts we need to complete the to work items you know before we can adopt anything new but if anyone has any words of support or words of otherwise please come to the mic William district so is this document referenced in the 1609 documents as a normative reference or what\u0027s the status there it\u0027s not referencing so the the way the layers work in 69.2 defines the basic mechanisms then this document is TLS using six year 9.2 certs and then I say 2177 references the TLS document so so I 221 177 would have this document as normative reference 69.2 wouldn\u0027t okay okay yeah so I think yeah it makes sense to review this here I think yeah okay so I hear only so far words of support but I have it we are blocked until we finish the other two work items okay all right Thank You William the intention of this attract so the purpose this draft is I am a giant portion from skq so we want to address the wide what is the requirement and the priest per orbiter design for mobility management yeah so there we explained it is so requirement is yeah sharing all the prefix form or telling a subnet or so we are providing a seamless handover and also consider the handover between different prefix domains so design principles I said during my presentation the PS document the first one is the proactive mobility management take advantage above poverty information second one is a talk faced moving and mobility management so restoration is a Chris explained and also we can take advantage about the proxy mobile ipv6 a cell phone app and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:23",
    "text": "it are going to next the multi no servant is the same there are two different attacks imitative front so we can take advantage of a mobile proxy mobile ipv6 in the case of the knife which me the two different critics domains also we can handle using property mobile IP and also DMM so the once we are finished the PS document that we can discuss this one okay also we can probe comes in by the way this one is I profile the IPR so I will declare later on okay thank you yeah I I\u0027m sorry I was kind of multitasking there but I\u0027ve heard mentioned a couple times now multi-link subnets there was a document by Dave Thiel are on multi-line subnets I know if you\u0027ve seen this in RFC that talks about the dangers of multi-link subnet so there might be something to be learned there RFC on multi-link subnets from Dave Phil a day about their seller yeah yeah I\u0027ll dig it up and send you a corner okay okay sure thank you yeah maybe yeah the concept yeah some part the same some parties are different so we can clarify okay okay thank you thank you so with this we finished just four minutes before so this Oporto loss and a Carlos may I suggested so we already work for the peace document yeah actually almost yet two years right so connect last score 3r weeks and then during that Resco I can get the comments and then I can walk away the other No so how comment first okay okay yeah in in a timely manner if I\u0027m I thank you much they\u0027ll be shutting the network down very shortly so don\u0027t be surprised "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:58",
    "text": "so is there any kind of experience or frequently forgiveness or wouldn\u0027t it so my interest is really how much we just continue using you dress you can also mitigate this usually the urban area usually make a selection or if there is a completion "
  }
]