[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "nine thirty. Okay. I think it's time for us to start. So good morning. Welcome to c transition. So I think it's very long time for many of us to have the kind of phase two face meeting is connecting. So firstly, let's work Louis and the helm man. And also thanks to Oscar Oscar, oscar. Thanks Oscar he's great job for once he can Yeah. So I would like to met my culture, I'll luis to to do my job actually. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Welcome everyone. So Okay. Yep. It's a bit delay. So first interview they not well So is the no reflect the rules that apply to variety meetings. So all you need to be aware of of that. Follow the the different procedure there is Number with the Dc is describing the the points. So... Yep. We put that you familiar with it. Next, please. Regarding in the lines. So yes to know as well that we expect to the meeting run with courtesy for the different people in the in the And on their on the meeting. So please keep in personal from focus on the clinical. Next. Okay. Meeting tips yeah for those in person here in Yokohama oklahoma. So be sure that you connect to the to the for the the queue. So signal the with the face hand that you're want to to end the queue, keep the the audio the off."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "Please in order to with echo and and in the during the the meeting. And yeah, I reminded about the masks. So we are you are speaking or actively in at the microphone. For the remote participants, so make sure that the your video is and I'll of unless you present. Next please. So so more details or may the conference on like conference tool that we are using. So you can in this you can train yourself for you use make for those that are not familiar with that. Next, please. So more different stuff. So there is link for taking notes online, so we appreciate people that could contribute with taking notes and helping on on the stuff reporting has been discussed here. So yeah, please don't be for that and and and contribute to the to the notes. Blue is no longer... Needed is automatically recorded by registered. And just a reminder of Process please be aware that on the Ip for calling the us for outsourcing and contributors to be ensure that all the Ip is to registered before we can continue with the russian process of the doubts. Next, please. When you is the session, so we have two hours for today, in the in the in the slide. So you can access to materials and there. Next. So regarding agenda, you see we have a very back agenda, Please be respectful in in the allocated time order that all the people could intervene with the proper time. For full discussion. Next. A reminder They are in the usage of the million list. All the discussions are we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "I us to be taken in in the middle east us as a way of her they making the building group dynamic. All the predictions, the traditional of new routes have also whatever issue that could be respect work item in in there. In the was including the proposal of new ideas. Next please. Thanks a lot to Luis. So a short update on the status of the working group. Since the last meeting, we don't have any new Rf, but we have a draft editor queue. I just saw this morning that the draft has been approved by. So I guess it only needs the approval from John to be moved forward. So very last steps for for the draft. Today, as you've seen it, we have a very packed agenda. We have plenty of a working group draft being being discussed. We will we will be from them in a while. While waiting a short update on the drops that will not be presented today, So we have layer one and Ot top. We are in working We were waiting for the routing review which right few days ago more or less one week ago. So we need to have the comments fixed up And then the draft will be will be sent to the s if if I remember, these are the tasks done shepherd. Right? Ethernet client young model minimal updates have been done to the draft just just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:03",
    "text": "We need a little bit of more thorough review on the on the draft and evaluate but this will be done after the other top the flexi have priority in in our backlog. We grouped all all of these draft together we have seen as a minor order updates on on them. There wasn't a big discussion on on on the menu list. So we we need a little bit more discussion and review on the release. So if you are interested in one in any of this topics please review the drafts and your comments to the list so that we can progress documents. The layer one connectivity service model This as passed the working group plus caller. We are waiting for shepherd right after luis volunteered or better. We will until the luis to be the shepherd of of the doctor. Is working on on the right after The transport and applicability statement that this one as a by if I... If I can't remember, this is the doctor that was on a diet. I how's was the data going. How how is the guy? How's the document dia going? Yes. Yeah. Literally I... Yeah. I was referring to the? Oh good. It's good. Yeah. It's just on big bone. So the documents open on my laptop at the moment I'm just kind of working through the edit. So thank you thank you for the suggestions. I do did have a couple of clarifications, but we are meeting after si come today, I believe So apologies for the delay but we we hope to get the documents submitted you know, potentially by the end of the week. Wonderful. Thanks."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:04",
    "text": "Model has not been updated since since it last meeting. We are keeping on monitoring the t tunnel model, which if I'm not mistaken is not progressing in the t's working group. So that's that's a sort of a show stop. Same thing applies that to the derby on panel model, so we have this pre requirement to to progress to the work. One other thing did w panel model is that I don't remember if it was at the last meeting or in between meetings but we agreed that to merge it with flex the to have... I mean, as seen the two documents have a lot in common it we decided the image sensor to merge. Now the working group is working on how to do that because some work is needed to merge the two modules. And finally, liaison and communication We received the two since since last meeting one from It activity, and then the other from the etsy cis g and working group, So the one from q t is an invitation updated information in the I twenty twenty and beyond the road map. This was this was submitted the back back in December, we are passed the deadline but I mean, we will try to answer as soon as possible. Scott. Would you like to comment on this reason?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:04",
    "text": "Yeah. Scott main spelled Eric. And the... It's the deadline was set up for the previous Jc a meeting. There's another Jc meeting in April. I have sent around a suggestion for the response, and I'm still c that because it's I just need to get some more working group chairs to reply. That this is the subset of the four hundred Rf that I identified that we really want to send. So that's what I'm looking for the next meeting isn't until the eighteenth of April, so we can handle it on the by email list. One thanks. Thanks for the update. The the other one is towards this a working group and the c camper basically is a communication the start of work on application for multi site connectivity services based on Ac Ana. We discussed about this draft earlier this week with the t's and the the working group chairs and we will we will agree on on it apply if I correctly remember that he's just agreed to take the lead on on this one. Is on sent, both of them to this group fifteen in in. Oscar, maybe you want to comment on the previous one. There's not we have invited for the session tomorrow of this from from side the one at the beginning in the same demos as at the beginning of session, she just to come to the mic and say you wanted to have some information tomorrow money. Wonderful will take the between"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "see and we take the lead of doing the conscience right. Thanks a lot. Thank you, Oscar. Then we sent liaison two t study group fifteen question six on a clarification application code, sir. Basically, while building our models, we realized that that the same application code that was used for two different two different scenarios. We asked if that was was done on purpose or or not? And I think we already received the I don't remember if it was a a formal one or a or or an my preview. I would need the... I would need to check that. With that said, I think is there any comment or we can started with the first presentation. The first presenter is a sergio which is remote Good I Good morning. For you. Okay. I'm sergio alt from Nokia. I'm going to present the status of data model for Optical impairment aware top, on behalf of the other and contributors that you can see. In the front page. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:08",
    "text": "Since the Ip for another fifteen, we make some progress from the text point of view, we a new all text to be able to align terminology with the new terms and the definition related to the t g eight to seven. We add a specific appendix to describe how the model our young model can support a remote optical connected to the W nodes. And we also added see an example for this case, We added did a new section related the media channel group protection, And so we complete. We added the last the in the last have shown the Ot otc site optical Ups protection. And here we added the Mt protection this creature, how do model is is is dealing with that and we introduce the definition of the end to end media channel that is using the document but that there was no definitely the definition. From the young update,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "we have removed the key in the media channel list that is a parameters that was represented by parameter, the end parameters represented the related to the nominal center. Because we are not able to have this information for example in all use cases, and we're not, we we cannot say how is what is Netflix and in case for example, the we have the remote optical shells because the configuration is done due to the Network. And so from a remote shelf in case specific controller is dealing with that part of the an network is not able to know how the rod net will be configured. And we add the optical impairment profile So in order to use effect of the optical to use a subset of the impairment top for other implication for other application. And we added the new channel power penalty This is a modification that is done see ninety and ninety three visa, but is today optical impairments model Next So they... So the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "Protection is is a one plus one protection, architecture where they tl link between two W T o is one plus one protected This one plus one Protection is a local rotation and can be model in based on dealing properties. That is already defined in Eighty seven ninety five So since the optical impairment model less thing the t... The t top, model We have no impact on the youngest so we c seven ninety five already provides what is needed from yan. The way the model is using what is already defined young we have two approaches One is next please. Next again because I commented directing the picture Okay. So we have the model approach is in case of one We have in this case the approach which we have three links exposed in the model. One protected link that is on top on the picture and two y ems link represented the primary and secondary O ms mt g"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "we use the in this case, they link protection type in the lean protection attribute of eighty seven ninety five. Will be set at one of the protection type to define in the defined in Eighty seven seventy six. And the under lake container is practically saying that the underlying protection scheme exist and is the easiest and is the underlying primary and secondary, or ms link and the link protection type is as said or sector to one of the deities. Primary and second link report the optical impairment parameters of the primary and secondary ems and one possibility alternative is possible. Or just the worst case of the two. Next, please. Okay. Approach is to expose just o one one link one day where ma'am in this case, the lead protection type again, is set one of the identity but the lake is not."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "The optical impairment for these are typically based on the Optical impairment of the worst of the two underlying physical O ms link that in this case are not exposed. Next please. Next again, Next. This is representative what I described. So in all these the discrete shown this split and select or fashion are not represented as separate entities splitter and select or taking into account or in the one oneplus one protected tl link of the optical impairment of one plus one protected or in the optical impairment of the road path in the two w node. That is obstructed by symptomatic and the local link list. Next the next And this is the representation one cases. So this is the case of a single protected the Link And in this case, we show that split select or is comprised in the W node. This case. Okay. Next, Another updating the draft said is the the are the additional of the profile because based on previous discussion and comment that we received since"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "Ip one hundred fourteen, was there is an issue related to the possibility to use a subset set of the optical impairment to model for other applications. I don't know. For example, the str for Korea one option to to add this type of functionality is allowing winger to profile the model in the similar way that we it is the describing being drafted the music is top profile. There is a a well described summary of all the modification done in the model, to obtain the profile in the github or the link that I put here one thing that that we need again, to address is the fact that okay, we provide this profile for other application. But we needed to add a document describe being say, to add in our draft affection to describe file for optical impairment application to demonstrate the interoperability we added the new issue for that. With the the target to indicate the list of attributes in in the model that are now optional because not needed for a non optical impairment application, but that you need to stand"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "stated use in case of optical impairment application. This is a new issue that we wanted to we need to address to complete the picture of they provide. Next, please. Okay. Open issue, we track all the open the link that you reported it here. We have closed six issues since For hundred fifteen still seven open initial to close that, but some of them at least four of them are partially closed. So in particularly, the first four issue The the first one is related to O protection we just to refine what is already there. With another picture that is coming from one sales slide that we use to update the model. The the the text. Sorry. We need to address that they pretty in the previous slide the mandatory profile for optical impairment application. And okay. We removed the key as described in the media channel lease we just have an action here. To verify the usage in the statement unique statement avoiding to have more elements in the list with the same flex"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "that is not possible. And Just sorry to interrupt. We have three minutes and we need to go through yesterday I see ninety ninety this. Maybe we can jump it to the next steps. Okay? No just just say that the last three is but practically not totally the of optical impairment. So we we we are waiting for feedback yeah. For the flex wicked call. Next Okay. Next step for us, they the draft is ready for the young doctor review. So we wanted to to to have this young review after this meeting we need to address the issue conclude the issue that I guy before. For the rest, the draft is stable. We have no for sync to add the other feature and the target that would be to ask the last call by next. Okay. Just, remind that we have an office each other weekly called any Tuesday and everybody is welcome to at attend. Okay. Okay. Okay. I need to update also for the see ninety ninety three"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:07",
    "text": "next Okay. Update from the last. Yes. We close to issue that related for the first one for the optical impairment we added supported mode present container in the view of the profile application that I described before we added these supported board in this case there was no ambiguity in case of mt entities that is one of the issue that we adjust in the profile. Since in this case we have no big for and an empty because they we always support at least one mode but we use to add anyway, the prices container for alignment with the adopted profile solution And we are the the Eric power penalty in this case to extend the of the receiver we change the definition of the mini and introduced the new list for power penalty. Next I report here the application we are already couple of minutes later. Can you can you conclude the please on this one? Okay. Here I report the modification"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "of ending through the deduction of the new list for the channel power penalty and the container supported mode we the minimum element. One Next Okay. For the open issue, we have the one issue to close specific for this. We need to review the list and of the remaining open issue and create and try to sold first the issue that can create dependency for stable draft almost close to last call like Optical impairment or others, so we need to have analysis this on on the remaining open issue We have still the weekly call the optical impairment and we also treat the issue for a ninety nine three is in the context of that week call. Next step. Please we need to complete the App appendix a with the changes from nineteen ninety three and I've said to prioritize and fixing after analysis is the remaining issue. Okay. Okay. Thanks. Any question? So we we will take the action to ask for the young doctor review of the optical impairment. Okay impairment draft. That will be done for sure immediately. As soon as possible."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "Okay. Thank you. Now we have the sexy lot ce. Now we have the prison station on ot Okay. Hi, everyone. It's good to see you here. This is I will go from future way, and I'm presenting an update to the Ot slicing draft on behalf of the coa and contributors. So this is a major update for the draft since the last Etf. The the main thing we did was to with an attempt to try to separate part of the data model and that describes the network slice top. From the from the the the the existing with slicing models. This is actually a change to reflect what we have discussed that top top construct is technology agnostic. And apply to any type of network sizes. And so instead now the the netflix slice apology model was actually proposed in a separate draft. To the working group. Which is a reuse of the exist of of a previous dropped provided it by by by. So we can have a separate call to to a presentation for that. Now what do we have is for Oc size if augment the network sliced both the network slice top model and also the the netflix I model, adding what adding the Ot and technology specific arguments for. So. So the attributes, we we removed some of the old attributes for Los that was added"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "to chancellor based the requirements for supporting five g, and I I think if there are pretty much not that applicable till. So we moved it. Also we re... Repositioning some of the the explicit path references to a different container based on the updates from the Ns Yam just align it with updates for from the base model. And also have some text description. Update you accordingly. Next to page. Right. So this is like, an update to the model relationship. On the left is the old relationship for this draft that we have to the the two modules, the O slice and also what do we call transport network slice, actually with the top definition in there. Right? And after the update, we have steel and O slice. And also another transport network slice module but without the top definition. And as you can see, the top model was was moved to the new draft It Network networks. So what it seems to be the case now is the I think next to page maybe. Yeah. Right. So that's the first opening issue is about the model dependency between a working group of draft and a non working group app and t's. Right? So what it says the Oc slice is currently depending on the network size, which uses still and individual draft. To resolve this issue. We have several options discussed The first option is two. Request teeth working group to adopt the Netflix slice technology."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "So it becomes a working group draft and we can progress both at the same time. And the the... I think this is the preferred option from the from the authors. And there are two other options. One is to we could create a a new individual draft that contains just to the Ot arguments. Basically to augment the nets. Because I apology with Ot s. And make it like a split from the current O slash model. But that... Well, create another new draft. And I with additional efforts to make it. Right? So I think it is less preferred. And the third option we could consider is to progress Oc in in phases. Basically, for the first phase, we we wanted to conclude the connectivity only oc slices along with the the the Base model? And then for the phase two, we could consider adding, you know, making the top part a a working group draft. So It's still open. We are discussing that. Hopefully, we'll reach some conclusion by by the next and probably any inputs would like some inputs from the working group, probably this is the good time of to if you to to to discuss My feedback would be to target option one. Given also the good relationship that we have with fees and cross cross that we're are doing together. Yeah. That that there was actually the that's the plan for now. So Okay. I'll go take this in. So next Right. So another open issue is there are still a couple of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "whether do we consider the technology diagnostic agnostic attributes that we wanted to see if it's possible to merge with Generic Ns. For example, the we have this it described, like, past as well as the a couple of optimization criteria and a something related to to Ob on delay whether the size of the O slice would affect service for if it's an Ot network on underneath. Right? So those are the things. That can be considered as sort of generic attributes. And we're gonna create issues to the Ns and discuss that over the meeting. Next to page. Yeah. Right. So here's the next steps. So we're gonna address all those open issues. And we're gonna continue work with the Ns. To align the two models those and and actually, we had some side meeting yesterday and has some new thoughts about how can progress the the the technology model. There's a new proposal. We we probably can discuss offline for that. Other than that, we intend to add a few examples for the different types of slices. And put it in the draft. So Finally, yeah. We have the Github repository and we have weekly call on every thursday. So you're more than welcome to join the work. Yeah. Well, Yeah. Sex sort of this work. And I think at one of the authors of of Five service mono, I feel like this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "this slice top, may need more clarification especially like the netflix size framework. Because right now sliced framework only talking about, like, S, the service the location point, Might call that like nodes or blink? Is this like can be clarified in what his that means in the network slide, you called it slides. Right? So that is like, I think that's a gap there, so maybe needs more discussion. Thanks. Okay. Any other comments? Okay. Thank you. Thanks a lot. It's more suggestion for the next present as if you have like, ten minutes located for your of time. Please try to make the presentation a little bit shorter to save some time for for discussion. That's probably the most valuable usage of of your time flexi updates, sir. Done, please. Hi. Hi. Good morning, everyone. Let me see if I can perception time back. As well. So next slide, please. Essentially, this was a session or presentation on the state of the flexi grid nation. We have paused the processing of one of our key doc which was the the top apology. It was in John's to do list for review because we've had some additional requirements that potentially affected that document as well as several other documents. So what I want to do with this presentation is just sort of give you a an update on where we are."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "What potentially will change how we expect to process those changes and what effect they're going to have on a variety of documents Next slide, please? So there's actually several documents that could be affected by these new requirements including existing Rf, so the W document. Actually, the when effects but the tunnel will be affected. Flexi top tunnel, some of the Ot models as well, including this apology tunnel, potentially pass computation, and we just need to be aware as we kind of work through the impairments document that that may not be to fancy change, but it's it's something that we need to consider. Next So what are these new requirements? I suppose with hindsight that they were obvious. But it's increasingly important for operators be able to have a view of the network that includes mixed technology, So this essentially has a red box which would be your single instance, your your single view of the network. And on the left of the diagram, we've got our w son nodes with the yellow links and then on the right, the flexi grid notes with the red links. So why what why is this an important observation will it's it's the fact that you may have a significantly larger network with several rings or top, and you want to have one model that kind of shows all of these without having to have multiple that are aggregated. And the benefits here of having a single view are really sort of operational. So you would be able to reduce the amount of state"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "potentially that you're having to manage it makes it easier for optimization of your network. Resources as well. And you may not only be restricted to these two technologies. You may have some other. Optical technology that you want to show in a single instance. Next slide, please. Now we've taken the approach in the past that each technology would be model separately So this new view would allow multiple technology to be displayed in a single instance. But you may also want to have multiple instances with multiple technologies being displayed as well. So I'll step through some of these scenarios in a moment. And during the discussion of the new requirements, we also identified that potentially in the future, you might also want to have an even lower view of your optical network. So right up the physical layer. But we have to be kind mindful of the fact that several vendors may have slightly different implementations and a technology parameters that needs to be exposed are and viewed as as as part of that sort of instance. Next slide, please. So these are the kind of the three top that we've identified during our our flexi calls. Remember that these kind of weekly calls that we have just just try to kind constrain the search base in terms of use cases and scenarios, so then we can bring them to the working group and then let the working group decide if kind of these are applicable across other vendors or operators within the working group. So please, if you're not attending the flexi calls now now is the time to kind led let us know if there are sort of additional scenarios that that maybe need to be covered, but we feel we've got"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "sort of a good quorum of people a good representation of both vendors and operators on these Flexi calls. So we what what what we don't wanna do is kinda of make decisions on these weekly calls, and then apply those decisions without sort of working group consensus. Next slide, please. So it's very simple. This is Again, a single view. You can see with the sort of red dotted box there. That that that's showing sort of an Ot network that that top up of a physical network view with the interfaces and the identifies the Lt of the interfaces. Next slide, please. Things will get a little bit more complicated now because we've got three top instances each with a single technology view ethernet Ot un physical And when you have a relatively small network, Obviously, it it won't be a a particularly large model, and next slide, please. The... Oh, I thought I had another slide, which would show a single instance with multiple technologies. And when you combine or or at least evaluate single instance showing multiple technologies versus multi instance with a single technology, you can significantly reduce the amount information that you're having to kind of manage. So it's a lot more effective. And it would help the operator kind of optimize that network deployment and operations and a lot more efficiently. So what is potentially the impact here? So what do we need to do next. Well, the first thing is we need to bring back at least one document that had already passed last call and was being processed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "by our esteem Ad. We will need to updates that document and essentially kind of talk about this new requirement and start sign posting to other documents where we describe our new approach and we want to avoid this issue in the future, where we kind have to sort of pause documents and bring them back to the working group by making sure that we're future proofing. We're making this backwards compatible. So we can kind of build on the work that we're doing at the moment. Now this this is all sort of great in theory. But we we still need to make sure that the approach we're taking is something that can be implemented. So we'll probably have to kind of look at some of the scenarios and the size of the networks and ensure that these models potentially all gonna be will that they won't be too big that it won't create scaling issues, especially when you start modeling multiple technologies in a single instance. Because, of course, your one benefit of of partitioning is that you can of scale the problem in terms of state manage. And making sure that we haven't introduced any unforeseen issues and circumstances as well ideally. So we would hope that the working group will review these changes. To ensure that none of those potential issues have been introduced. Next slide, please. Great. So now we can kind of see specifically which which documents are affected. We will I I suppose one unintended consequence here is that we can now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "reduce the number of documents that we need to actively work on. So we're gonna merge the W flexi great documents. So that's obviously gonna save working group time and effort in for the r. And the review time from the working group perspective. So those are the the red documents the orange documents are going to have to at least one which is in John Q, will have to come back to the working group and be updated There's no substantial change to the models themselves. We just need to kind of discuss this new requirement and then point to other documents. And then hopefully the green documents, although they need to be considered a part of a collective and not in isolation, they should remain unaffected. Next slide, please. So I think I've pretty much covered the immediate actions and those obviously, the technologies affected here are just C cam technologies. So it's w flexi potentially Ot. Considering that we have introduced these new requirements then we might need to add some additional text at least in one of the documents that talk about that talks about the applicability of the models on how they would be used. On the sort of justification. Of of sort of having a single instance, multi technology or multi instance. Single technology. And we can potentially do that. In one of the documents or in order to avoid sort of duplicate text in multiple documents or we could have an capability Id after we finish developing the technology models themselves. So that's kind of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "an outstanding question that doesn't have to be answered immediately, because we need to do the work first anyway. At least the technical work. But if anyone has an opinion on that, then feel free to kind of mention that when we have our our q and a. And then so so that sort of short term midterm, and then the longer term piece of sort of work slash discussion that we need to have on flexi on our flex calls and bring that back to the So the working group at some point is whether we need a new layer zero model which could then be used to sort of under some of the high layer up models that we have. Again, we wanna avoid the mistake that we made with the the current work, so we can apply this to both single technology and mixed technology environments. But as I kinda of mentioned, at the start of the presentation, there are dragons when you start looking at the physical layer, each vendor will potentially implement things slightly differently even from a sort of language perspective, there may be slight deviations in terms and you we can't model every capability in the physical layer for every vendor. But we may be able to come up or agree some sort of common or or parameters and and and capability. It it's something that needs further the discussion. Next step. Our next slide. Great. So hopefully, it's clear what we intend to do with the existing models. How we plan to make the changes and and the motivation of why we wanted to make these changes. It's really to reflect the operator requirements, which is, you know, hopefully"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "sort of the the main way that we should be developing these. Models. Mh. And then once we've updated those existing models, then we can look at starting the the applicability of the models and potentially a new model as well. And as I mentioned, we will continue to have our weekly flexibility calls, it's just a a very effective way. To continue to discuss this environment and make sure that we move the work along in a timely fashion. I think that is the final slide. It is. So any questions comments disagreements agreements approvals. It seems to be be a lot to work. Yeah. Yeah. Has... It has... I mean, I felt like when we started the flex work, I actually had hair. And it's just kind of just pulling out over time. But what... What we didn't... Well, what we don't want do what we... The mistake that we haven't made here is that we've kind of published the work. Cat as an R and then so you know what? This is not how we wanna use this model. And we've now got write a bunch of new rs are gonna represent replace that. So I'm glad I'm glad that we've kind of had have this discussion now, we can make the changes. It it it it is... You know, it has taken multiple years to kind of progress this work. I think we started it in twenty seventeen. But the market kind of... Or even earlier, ...yeah, even earlier. But it it... It's it it it's been market driven as well. So it kind of reflects the number of deployments and what she installed in the field as well. Who are you? Yes. Highway. I will hear. So I wanted to point out that the the changes we are discussing here was because of the new use cases that we have received from from from multi point"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "sources. Right? And I think since we took the effort to to make the change. I think it's important to also ask specifically, no operators who looking to this work see if they have additional use case that they might want to address. I think it's important to make sure that we cover all the use cases then we have foresee. Yeah. So far. Yeah. Without eating to So let let let's be specific then. So we've we we've had coming back again. two operators who have helped us kind of develop these requirements and provide these use cases. Know, is that enough to kind of move forward? Ideally if considering where we are at the moment if there are sort of Japanese Chinese Asian operators or Us operators that that that want to kind of provide an opinion here, whether it's to say Yes, this is how we would use the models. And yes, we agree that that these the scenarios that we would use them in, that that would be really good. Equally, it will be great if people want to... Say no. You know, we we we wouldn't have a sort of mixed technology environment in a single instance. The nice thing about the approach that we're taking is that it's modular which would allow you to kind of use it in in in multiple ways when I suppose what I was just mentioned there is, is is this something that we'd missed entirely. Yeah, That's kind of blindsided us. And just to underline, that we really want to make sure that with future proofing this work and as we develop new models for new technologies your hire layers moving forward that they would be compatible with this work as well. That's that's a strong In order to do some advertisement and the collectors objective."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "some support for for this. May I suggest you to send the mail to the least saying it this would be all the benefits if we did if you needed the the the changes. I mean, we we would lose even if it's not we are losing eb timer, but this would be the the benefits. Yeah. The rationale we can we can go a bit further than that actually and say, look here are the strengths. Hear are potential weaknesses. You know, and and hopefully, the benefits significantly outweigh outweighed the weaknesses. But but yeah, we we... It's a good idea. And maybe we can copy in another working group as well like I I yeah, maybe teas or something. Just to let them know that that... Because a lot of this this C cam work is of course, dependent on the models that we've we've got in in t's as well. Absolutely. Thanks a lot. Thanks a lot, man. Scott your next Oh, perfect. Hi. Scott Mansfield for Eric, and I'm here to talk about the microwave top pathology work that we've been doing. So next slide Okay. So the main changes that we've had is since the last meeting is we split the draft into three different draft. Because there was some work on adaptive available... A bandwidth availability and interface reference work that was integrated into the microwave apology module, but it was determined that to the bandwidth availability and the interface reference top work is generic. So why not split that out and there's a note from the c cam chair. That's the reason that I just went ahead and created the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:03",
    "text": "Github as an F draft Ie etf not individual. Even though they are they are new ones based off the work that was already there. So there's a summary of the mail archive if any has any questions about that. So... And this provides the link to all of the all the github. That we're using and we're using the issues tracker to track the issues as got it through so next slide? K. So we have... There's not very many open issues now. The interface reference top Does have an open issue that to be honest, I completely missed, and that's why it's still open. And it has to do with a review one of the very nice young doctors looked at this thing and said, well, why is it here? Why can't it be why can't you move it to make it even more generic? And in just change the tree around a little. And so we're going to be discussing that on on calls coming up because I think it's a really good idea and there's a description of the issue and and what we would like to do. And so and then keep... Then we would just need to keep the informative example that's in the microwave top. All of these drafts are independent one another, but we do have integrated example that shows how to use these things in the microwave dress. So we would need to keep that up to date if we change tree associated with the interface reference top biology. Next slide. So the plan I would really really really like to get this thing to last call. We can get this microwave top microbiology yang completely separately done from the other the other two modules that we really needed to. But I would also like to find socialize where this bandwidth availability and interface reference work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "should live. I don't know if it's c camp, It might be. Might be net. But that's something that I would like to discuss on the calls that we have and I would like to continue with the weekly conference calls. So however I get those set up, I would appreciate help getting that set up. And then the last thing I wanted to say before I take some questions if there or any is that there is work associated with the Microwave radio link Rf c, we we have started an individual draft. To do some enhancements to that. So I have some people that have contacted me with some ideas on how they can make that draft a lot better. So that's captured on my individual Github with some issues there. And so I'm interested in people that want to support that work, And maybe next time we'll ask for I f adoption. So that we can work on it as a draft Etf document. So I think that's it. Got my last. My. It is. I has one more comment on on this Okay. Please. interface reference one. I'm wondering whether you have considering about sc amount. Well, we're considering it, but I find scheme amount completely incomprehensible. So if there is something that we could do that would make it work, then I would be greatly appreciated if you could come on and explain it to us. I got it. Thanks. Yep. I should say my name is Paul. Yeah. Thanks. I I just wanted to better understand how canada the microwave top yang model they'll be independent from the two other drugs."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "Well, because since it was a single piece and you carried it out, Correct. Well, the the way that it is is dal done through augment, And so just like we took the example because I I I worked on this with with The tall Tell showed me how to do this. Is you start with the Microwave... Sorry. You start with the network top and then you have the network t, which augment the network pathology. You've got micro top which augment t top pathology. And then bandwidth availability is a is simply an augment of network t or to biology. And the interface one is also. So that's what makes them generic because they're just things that were not in the miscellaneous pile of stuff that the T top pathology draft was, And so that's why they're separate. And so so that that there is no any pre requirement to. There is no include low imports nothing that would stop Microwave yang or top technology yang from progressing separately. Yes. That is correct. Okay. Yeah. But probably... I mean, the The last concern remaining was where are the two other drugs were fitting into so. Right. Yeah. That's the question. So I don't I don't know how that gets resolved. So I'm looking to know, area directors or people like are interested in this work I can present it in other places as well if need be, but it's useful Yeah. From... I mean, we we we can bring this to the attention of the I don't know probably it falls into net pops I don't I don't know. Yeah. I'm not sure. Vice so rob Wrong. Maybe you have some indications."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "Very embarrassing you have to repeat all of the issues because I was like tuned that's okay. There is the Microwave Wave top yang, my out for. Oh, was progressed last meeting. And one of the come are presented. And one of the comments that was received is that there are two, there were two other modules in that same are draft, and they were for interface reference and for bandwidth availability. And so instead of progressing it is one chunking in one and one Internet draft, we separated the those modules into separate internet drafts. And but they are generic. They're not... They're not they're not something that is tied to microwave. They are tied to the T a work that they augment. Right? And so the question is, do we progress those in C camp? Or is would there be a better home for those to progress. Answer I don't know. So I'm I'm keen for work to get done and not to create process and make it harder to get with done. So I think it'd be good to at least drop net mod it and the chairs and then mouth to them and know about it and ask their opinion. I can I would say it'd be nice? And maybe we we just mention it's in the Network mod meeting on Friday. There's there's not time agenda to to forty presenter. Just to get a heads up and see if there's any indication so So even if mods say, yes, we think this should come here, or go there. Great. It is like not sure. So it wants to be difficult then I'm not necessarily opposed to yet. Doesn't play I. Okay. I mean, since that is a still a lot of work to be done. We might also work on the draft between now when the next meeting and asking for his that You That's right. meetings. So can properly explain... The issue and we can be there with you to the next meeting at to. Yeah. That's fine too."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:04",
    "text": "And and the other one, I I heard skew that come up earlier. And so So don't exactly how you want to use out. On. That. Depends if you wanting reference across modules because then that has issues in terms of being. Design time versus what time, But if that is a problem, that again, we've be another for discussion have net more side look. Loads scheme amount. You... Is obviously mentioned to but we can't understand it. But but also whether that but it's sort cover everything that's needed would be potentially interesting. Correct. And yang packages is going in this direction as well. I'm not solve the problems. So I think sure I knowing what problem is. I remembering. That's okay. That please oscar regarding new that is that is... Yeah. Okay. So regarding in the new drug that is generic, I would like also to to bring it also to ops that and there is an ongoing effort for digital map. Collecting the different delete quality models, we also have the huge amount. So I think it would be good coordinate their because it will be great to find where would be the best place then to process the workflow suggest to to to see what the place is. So send it to the the ops. Yeah. Group as well. Okay. That sounds good. A lot. Thank you. You Behalf quarters the progress on the network to other model, next slide please. Okay. The the what would did we qualified it in the next update"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:03",
    "text": "sense. The the use case is that to report mean from the network controller to the access in particular resource management an inventory of all the other elements that are in the network. And that's will being parallel with other systems, and there will be some coordination in the between the provisioning and the resource management. Next step. What has been the changes sir? Okay. We have the document has been adopted. The is a lot as a working group document, and we addressed the almost all the comments that we received the from the working group adoption paul. We have three remaining issues. One is about why we are not forty five. Another comment is about how to is issue between chemo room and site whether to generalize it or not? And way they comment about whether we need to cover or auto those software components. And we have updates the model... The name of the model and the con and the text document call to better measures scope of document. Is a network outdoor And we fixed the minority on the reference and we reduced the number of to five to comply with twenty two requirements. And we have added a new year models loss to navigate from the top to the inventory. So it's basically referencing, which project when the project is with a physical, which is the corresponding physical components. A few other minor young, fixes next slide. Okay. So why not we are not we are not a for fiber. The reason the figures that we got also for implementation is that the this the the other battery are different and different applications. And typically are going to be consumed by different clients. And that... Then we have a problem if you put everything in a same list then the client needs to retrieve a lot of data because the net is going to be have a lot of entries and every entity is going to be very"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:04",
    "text": "very heavy because it's a... A whole policy a full. And doing the filtering and the client is it's going to be very inefficient. So the figures got from the implementation is. This we we don't see application to retire both and inventory at the same time, but only one of that you have bed then together and their filtering is can very heavy for both apology and for our inventory application. So we prefer to have different route containers to have different queries. An easy way to get the information. And we did actually there is not too much advantage on the other side on relying on the network model because what we have Ne is at list of network elements or notes under the top Also, the navigation is very limited because we will see later on we we need to not only between S and notes. But we need to have get also between components so next slide is. So we have adjusted that problem of the navigation by Eu model, which is our top model to add to the top element reference that points to the corresponding inventory element. For for example, for a node, we can say this no the logical node is actually representing associated with this physical at element. This Part associated with this part component in. And in future sure, we are going to add the associated with the logic logical link and a physical cable of fiber which has to be added to network. We are going to look at more examples and see if need more associations to be added. Next slide. Yep. Okay. We have do also noticed that we are using the term location in multiple places, and there is a bit of terminology we need to clarify A bit. Some has been only clarified some still needs to be and maybe this is something where we can get some help. For example, where we speak about where is located the rumor in keyword aroma"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "we have something like... I don't know what is actually the right term meaning issue. Address don't know is of the time I found address, but address is so broad as well. So I don't know whether we can put a better qualification in front of address. Which is basically saying that this is in this street in this four on this building, and we I've got congratulations suggested to look at the thirty to eighty two ninety nine to see if there is clarification. But also then they talk about address. So maybe we need to get the better and a better definition about this. The second way to I where the chemo room is is the Gps G location. For which agreed to use... Reuse the grouping in one seventy nine, we have not yet done, but we already agreed to do that. And these two location information for the are optional. So you can report both or only one of the two depending on the use case. There we have a... We have the room in the room we have rose and and of of accident, and we can locate where is the rec in the room? In terms of which column any which role. It is Then we have The, which is is in in a specific position along the record. And then the any location is where the basic is the list of chemo rooms so where we found the the components of Network okay. And we Slide is about the component location is another location that we discuss sir. Okay. It's... Okay. It's basically relative... Let me a logical position of the component with the network element. And this an item that we need to clarify. We talk about location, We don't have a clear definition. About what is a component location, another that we have here is that usually, what we did for this location is to define as a free form string you can write whatever you want as we copy from what a configure. But we know that there is a special pattern at at least for optical network elements is quite common used. But the problem is and we want to make this recommendation to be used though. That what issue that we have is that we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:03",
    "text": "whether we have norma reference that describe how this format is done, we didn't find it And I'm not sure we are not sure whether that this is only for optical is also commonly used in other technology like Ip or micro network. So we would like to get feedback from Yes. That's in this area yeah. Okay. This one is just a clarification slider. When we think about the component location of Chassis, we have two locations because this just seen can You I have a location of the Within the rack any location associate on the logic a component. This example is for example showing an network element food, which has two shelf. What shelf is in in in in the in the in case number two beam and this m m and in the sub for the second shaft is a location number three of the, and you can see that the position see the in the rack is two for about the location, a local position of the main network one. So we need to have two locations for the the second component, depending on which containment yeah can we... And I wanna go to people not everybody as this is clear so I prefer to have this like to make it clear to the people. K? Next slide please? Okay. Next steps is like we are going to continue the water and we try to keep continuation with the other inventory model this I was with before discussion or by, but this is any anyhow going to weapon, and we would like to get more we are working on some example, and we like would like to get more example from our technology types, sir. And we we will work on the specific categories and new component types if needed them, and we will continue working on the. We will have a weekly meeting on the Working group wednesday to four Pm European time. Thank you. Each draft has his own call, we spend more time in our arranging calls reading the. So please please join during the corner. Second, comment. So if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "so we are sharing that many sense information like etcetera. Security considerations are extremely important. And the third I wanted it little bit of information yet. So if you attended the upsell working group, meeting, then now in c company, you might see that there is a lot of for the lot of different drafts on on that There have been also some aside the side meetings and dedicated, the main list setup up for net inventory. Which is inventory dash young at dot org. So if you are interested reason the join map. That mainly list. There one of the outputs of these discussions is that there might be the possibility to create a short leave working group fully dedicated that to This would fall... The the chart is being is being the setup stopping these days. You will find a copy of the chart in the inventory So if you interested, you you will find the link there and the feel free feel free to comment and modify and contribute to to the tractor? The working group if created will fall in the operations area. So And and I must have said something wrong some. Not the all. Actually. She it's it very well Was just gonna take it just also say I bring this up with the Friday. We have wash our meeting say. Because time I'll mentioned it there that this this this is going on. There weren't really sorts of conclusions, but I need to get to buy needs get happy while I'm doing here."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "But that's my hope we can go forward of their working groups. Thanks. Thanks a lot. Nigel in the queue, please So we talked yesterday on the sorry is yeah. You talked yesterday on the work with doing know and f I thought I offer to to one of your meetings and maybe present that to the broader group because then it and certainly some interest in what we're doing. We have a model that's got equipment inventory. We've done the same separation. You'll proposing and the reason you you proposed that from the a eight four five, so so you equivalent all is in my view absolutely. Correct. No nice. And we've got a view of as we discussed strands and you physical apology and so on. So I'd happily offer that as a meeting so maybe we can arrange that after afterwards it's. Gaps. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Thanks. Next one is online reconnected Yes sir. I think okay. You can hear me. Will Thank you. It's four Pm my time. Four am. My time. Sorry. Okay. I will be very brief on this interface younger. Document go to the next one. So basically, they call the objective of this draft the easier to describe the all test parameters. That are needed in technology. And then we want to be in line with the what described in the optical young"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:03",
    "text": "but also be in line with the nineteen ninety three basis So zero one. That is is basically the layer zero. Yeah in description. Go next one okay. So the changes of the document has not been that much. Basically, we realign a little bit to the definition sir and Where you the to end or right information. So change very. We still have some errors or some let's say not very well defined models so needs to help here. On the from the expert. Alright the next one? And so I think the document is it? Again the doctor sir. Had needed. We continue to keep an eye to the definition and model so that is mandatory doctor activity we need to keep mistake or mister understanding. Again, we have to stay in line or keep in line the document with the methodology and and the the exact pipeline regarding the possible last call, I think we think that this will be aligned and we we should follow the nineteen ninety three piece zero one last call and the optical impairment to and underscore. That's all. Thank you. Thank you. Give."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "So another young doctor review that we will request Yes. Yeah. Yes. Me. Yes, please. Okay. Okay. I see no question in the room Thank you, Gabriel. We will move to the next presentation which is still yours. Presentation. Yes. Okay. This one probably more more interesting course is almost brand new. Actually, they c ac zero zero actually, every name of the former cluster Extension. We change the name for tourism reason because we want to be more clear. On what is inside the document and also because being this document talking about specific technology. We thought altogether to move to instead of this working. Next one. How this document is related to the other documents. So we know that we have they S By, capability that is covering either the let's say lower layer but also. The layer to and day to delay three. And this is a pretty let's say, there's a informative document. That the covers us multi technology. And this document actually does not cover the plug components in the top that could be outside"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "the optical alliance And so we we we had the meter. We we're in the understood they needed to deal with this kind of top. So the pla when is installed inside router the rolling so inside a different network layer and needs to be addressed in some way And And we we have to provide the use cases and the way to to command. On the other side we have another documented that these the service assurance. That would be this sky by that is working up. Next one. Okay. Here I think I already explained, and then I I according to her representation. This working loop. So we can skip this one. Next. Let's say, why we we have wrote this document number one is let's say extending if you want. The This as. Capability that is the parent of this this draft. And actually, the city employee, it doesn't cover the set use cases where the client rolled out side the took and are actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "present or fitted in the upper or so I any other So this imply have management or and control architecture that should add to coordinate any activity any provisioning need and any let's say reporting. Excellent. Okay. We can skip this one because it's simple So as you say, we have the packing network and actually costing what they plug or if you want to give that the current interface. That's point. And here is actually the proposed control architecture. And is is three three let's say align with the N. And you can see we might have multiple optical P C as well as a pocket P c all of them are coordinated by ds. Next one? Here the supported service, actually. Cool. K. One note here. A general note here. As we at this document let's say the contribution came from different contributor we didn't took care about the terminology. That the case used in in the parent documents. For example. And so we apologize for that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:03",
    "text": "And the promise by the next submission or posting. There would be a combination with capability and other dr like layer zero or whatever. To align. The terminology so that we are a cleaner standing. Call together. Next one. And the document actually described significant number of use cases. And let's say is starting from the this discovery some components like for example, the test between road and like inside their out and and so on. Until the end to end provisioning. Where means not only is layer three services that is the type described in And but also the way that all the information should be to to make this or happening. And we understood inside the the let's same I mean, give that probably addressing all these new cases. Is too much So we are debating to, let's say prioritize. What is the best and most needed at the beginning. So I encourage to look at the task and and give comments maybe on the middle list on the preference. Next one. K. The next step here is actually continue to work streamline the document so address the really the use case at the bikini. Probably left the click again. Okay? We have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "set you can let's say, join And then as this metric very interesting especially for operator. Our request is I really look into the graph and then maybe contribute with with comments or even with the new ideas or of course, this is documents should be three. Coordinate with the Ac and ui cabin. That's all for the moment. Thank you very much for that. Thank you, Gabriel. We have a question from yea. This is Yea from Huawei. So Thanks for that presentation. I think the key point of this contribution is that that and points out the lambda connection spread to the to the party layer So I think there should be several scenario similar scenarios like if you use the channel o n, in the To connect layer and the layer then the connection again spread to the packet layer. So I think it's it could be possible to generalize general your models to cover more Po scenarios. Okay. Thanks so for the question. I think is Yes. Can can be done. Of course. And is just a matter to say and how coordinate at this time Ip and. Thank you. Thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "oscar hi. I I would like not the a hype hi the here the optical connections system stuff in the router the router becomes multi. The device in this case. So I think now the problem is multi. So so one first comment is that the the architecture work. Of how to manage this needs to be registered I need to be taken out together between T and C, because I think it's problem. multi And I... And I would like to to have must operators as possible in this in this topic because I think it's is different than the Ip over definitely they definitely ask thank you to very fast and I said here. We need I say Eb contribution from all operators because it's is a topic that is happening in the network. And then hopefully, we should provide a solution for for all of us. For all who are the user of this technology. That type... That that is is very important here. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks a lot Gabriel. Just an note for the next presenter, so you will have seven minutes lot. So if you can manage to give a five minutes presentation and then leave it two minutes for this discussion that would be that's correct. Okay. Please... Okay. Let's talk the from huawei I'm glad to do this a presentation on behalf of the other call. And this trial is doing ways to perform monitoring on the optical resource level. And we provide data model in the. And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "This trial was presented in It one hundred and fifteen it was feedback that to name or draft and the data model is to broad and maybe overlap with some word in Ip. So we the name of the job and data model and scope on limited to a a small scope on the articles. And resource network. And the main purpose of our document is the have not been changed. We still aim to cover the capability of their traditional management capability or monitoring in optical domain we checked the of capability pto and and Policy as sample. And we consider that some that they have a requirement that to switch to Com interface, but they don't want to change too much on their is setting from a monitoring system. So then this manners can reduce and course of of this switching. And for the change on this version, we have some I'm supporting for the T configuration. Including the profile configuration and configuration directly on the resources. We also do the monitoring and on the of a task Id and that's slide, please. Let's slide, please. Not lastly. Okay. Okay. Let's capability of the traditional management performance monitor. And it is white in into. Including the on monitoring control and Tc control in the pub related information retrieval. And I want to say that our data model is more a simple translation of the Mt interface."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "But it is a of the current asian interface which we recognize that maybe some problem performance a monitoring capability missing in the up in Our camera working through on the resource level. And our data model, is how I the is It data model. Because the object we reference in our data model such as links knows and Lt three is defined in the network model or in the inventory data model. And on the table on the right, some interface which is in Light and and was the the the name risk iterator, we consider, it is nation related and it is out our scope. And for the interface in green color, background. It is supported by last version. And in this version, the interface in yellow background have been supported. That's slide, please. And for the traditional management interface sr crossing alert control can be divided into two group. One group is the profile management and the other group is a configuration on the resource directly. And currently we provide these two parts definition in our data model. Okay. That's slide, please. And in for the performance task, we recognize that just two requirement can supported by the previous mode modeling and maybe the a resource multiple a monitoring task can be created on on on single resource. So it is not good to define the resource has identifying all the task. That's slide, please. And we also have three open"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:02",
    "text": "issue to discuss. And the first one is the whether we need to separate the some collection manners information separately. Or we just merge into one attribute. There's two option, you can refer to these two options. And for the second question is that for their in definition indicators name, we there's a argument to use specific identify all you string from that. If users type it is very good inter talk but we can stay we cannot least order the integrated need to support it in inactive. Optical domain in the future, I think there could be some more attributes have not recognized so them. So then maybe the data model need to be trained. N for the string from matt, it is very first, but it is not good for inter. Okay. And for the third, issue we want to discuss is about the relationship between our model and the monitoring job In our consideration, the performance data on passing signal you know draft can be calculated by the data by our data model. For example, the wise of the usage of service can be calculated by package receipt or transmitted on the side Okay. And also for the margin jeff. They only focus on the on the hand side but all data model achieve all the of on their on the other resources. Okay. Next slide, please. And for the nest step, we will continue to cover the capability of and interface which you have not supported right now."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:02",
    "text": "And we also welcome to the people who want to join our work Thank you. That's off for the draft. I have I also gonna one question. Is this optical specific or it is a to technology? Because I see the flexible you can apply also to some micro parameters on any other some measurement causes and thresholds. So. We prefer this dry is Optical. And is currently, the data model is quite generic, but in the future, we'll define some optical specific attributes. In the future. Yeah. So then it seems that there is a path that is generating that could be used for all the technologies and maybe sorry. Never that in sea, we have this type of issues. No. No Never. Just time to see. Nit is in the queue. Then and, then we move we move on So we've done some work in tap on this as well. And for the... You you mentioned the potentially using an identity for the name of the measure. We we actually chose to put two actually a an identity when you got one and also a free format string when you haven't got one or maybe boats when when maybe the local the device has one name and you wanna go normalize it. So that might be the technique you wanna use to resolve that, And we could potentially talk on some other things maybe if you have set of meetings we could talk on some the other things you've done in tap that might be useful for you. Okay. Thank you. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:03",
    "text": "Very low, but we can Okay. We have always been encouraged by our chairs to reference data database standards for and looking at the references in this rob. I'm missing reference to Iq recommendation. Did did result is that to understand what you're saying I write it on the are sending dead Yeah. Me maybe on the middle list it will even better. Yeah. You? Thanks. Thanks a lot. Okay. Okay. Okay. And I'll talk to about the Performance monitoring which is companion draft off the previous one. Actually, this one comes earlier as client signal performance monitoring and the next slide, please. So so what we are doing doing here is trying to monitor the performance of applying signal, which is already deployed in the network. And actually, this is more proceed description on on what his right order for for doing it. So after we classify a top, create internal anti or client signal on that, we will start this kind of performance monitoring and it can be composed it can be decompose into the ethernet and trust line signals. And we create a table to indicate okay, what kind of parameters can be used as a part of performance monitoring. Next please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:02",
    "text": "So okay. Model relationship. So we this walk is based on the client's signal draft, so we import both the ethernet and the transparent service model from that draft. And we also clarify a little bit on what relationship is the other document. For example the previous one presented hit is basically on the resource only. And this one is from the client signal a prospect perspective. They have something common but but for for for different functionalities, And we also see there are some previous work talking about it and telemetry autonomous that part also focus on the performance monitoring for the Vm for the tunnels instead of the all this should be the client signal covered in document. It's not it's it's just very simple on the two ends of the the the the tunnels. Next please So this is the coils model structure. I was keep the details, but just trying to to show what is the most important factor So firstly, have we have the performance data with a key as a... We an up parameter name as a key, and the value pair can be do that inside the structure to indicate the numerical values. So this would be a very generic structure to understand okay what parameter is monitored and how it is mirrored. So we we have two other issues to work home, including how to do the mer and at which point, we we need to measure what kind of performance. But basically, this could be dependent a little bit on the resource Pm as well. Next please. And yeah, another functionality we're working along in this document is about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:02",
    "text": "m. So the the model just us indicate how to configure In the source and destination node. And how to sell the intervals for different including the Dm m and Cc. Next please. So we have... Oh yeah. We have I mean, every section in the draft end we confirmed there's the model with other trials and we have I think quite good interest in doing this work. They have this has been a little bit quiet for a recent year because we are creating the previous one based on from from the the resource now think everything is harmon. And we do request for the working group adoption. And meanwhile, we will continue working on a clarification with other models because we may not america to every Pm models in F, and we will trying to also work on the details of each Pm parameters including on where it is defined as commented by data, and how to merit where how and where tool to do to the mer. And that's it. Thank you. Okay. We have a question. I have a question on this because the name the model name is It app service. Right? Oh I think that this is quite Okay. I confused... Okay. Open for that. Okay. Okay. So we we have a polling now let's see Yes. So the policy is to check the this interest in the group for this work. For while process be set little on in the middle east, but this is just to to make sure that the here in the node group."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:12",
    "text": "Okay. Okay. It it seems there is interest on moving forward this this work. So we're to middle list. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. The next two two drafts are not and. One comes will be... Has been presented to the the a working group or the other one will be presented in these. So it's just and it's up to see camp on on this work being done in other working groups. Okay. Okay. Just tell her again. I'm got to do this presentation for the for this draft. And this drug is introduced solution for instant management solution and provide a young data model. Under the North of controller. That's well. Next slide please. And this is a company new job and it is presented in net on Monday and for time being it not presented in area yesterday. And for for this job, we consider the motivation is the traditional alarm management approach is not sustainable because that traditional approach quite on the information lump information and which requires human experiment to filter their a alarm and find detail of. Fourth location. And it is time consuming."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:04",
    "text": "And for some operator who provide white list to filter glucose alarm at there could be a some open that duplicate ticket will be dispatched to the maintenance. Engineers. And for the cause analyze, they only relies on the alarm information. It's no. So accurate. And here, we consider that for if the device and the service level for the existing modeling standard. It could be it is feasible to compress the call related alarm and the glucose lot into it instant. And then if the operator the management or instant, will be help to reduce the a quantity of takers. And also for performance data and just looking helpful for the cause analysis. And currently, there's also a lot of technology like ai and mushroom link motion motion lending can help to deal with their capacity complicate correlation. And also there some technology and helpful to the how for the fourth location. In our in our optical domain there's such like Ot. Okay? And currently we support to propose to a new instant base. For management solution. And in this solution, we provide action catch all different layers and and for defined their functionality of each layer and we define the young data model in between the integrated incident mentioned agent and kind. Nest slide please. Elicit the directory, it is divided in to the instant the management client insulin major agent and the network layer. And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "yes the management agent usually is the domain controller and provider instance detection, reporting and diagnosis solution and querying and for the kind you you use usually it most the function functionality provided by the other the agent. And to prefer the requirement of their customer. And another layer, you need to provide we post a alarms and chase lot from the data as before, but maybe some small data collection may maybe need. And for the interface between the car and agent it is the functionality in course instance report and acknowledged and diagnosis. And resolve and that's slide please. And currently, we defined this data model including the details information and we define... Api for the operation between the Canyon agent and we define a notification for the instant report. Slide, please. And for then for the next step. At, we need to confirm whether there's any optical space for this instant management solution in our optical domain because we considered that currently that they can model define in this job is quite generic and it is currently it is pushing in ops area. And maybe we we say that maybe for the modeling or connection and and also for the technology or May be with related with list a solution maybe in the future, there could be some extension in our camp. Okay. And for the nasdaq, we also try to will define the app interface to support the whole solution and we also welcome the people who want to join our work Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:01",
    "text": "Thanks for saying our c shows the belonging. Thank you. Yeah. Before the next steps, it was I was about to ask what did this is a very interesting, but why why you were present this is taken, for now it's clear because you you you foresee technology specific extensions to to retain the future right? Yes. Okay. Thanks a lot. And last, but not least Okay. So this is I again. I promised to finish it in two minutes. So a brief again, this is gonna be presented in So this is just a recap of what we gonna present the network slice policy next to page Okay. So as some as bull has a question the motivation to have this top is as also put in the framework document that the an Network exercise could ask for some additional level control by to customize the service path. And I when we believe top is best as suitable for this purpose. So there are several benefits of using a slice using a top to allow better resource reservation and sharing among connections we didn't exercise. We call this type of top and that slash apology. Next page. Right. So basically this top is a is is a customized apology that expresses like what a customer really likes it's not some that is exposed to by a provider. And for the existing models like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:03",
    "text": "network or key. I mean, what we see it's missing is that it does not have the That or can be expressed. Can can you express customers intent. So that's why we we wanted to define a new model for that. And also, fortunately, we already have existing draft, I mean, which has expired, but which was initially proposed partially for this purposes. So next page. This is the drop to lou. In in t's. I I I forgot to putting the most important comments in there is we in this change, we reposition draft to to... So initially, what was visiting the four draft is sort of, like, an alternative model to define a network slice as a. Right? What we repositioning this draft is to... Instead of as an alternative solution for network slice, we wanted to make it as a complimentary draft that model to define a top, which could be referenced to bio slice. And to them for to do that week. Just it's like build the the pathology by adding additional Yes attributes, which is common to which is defined by the Ns. We've applied it to different constructs in this model. And we also then removed the additional arguments from the existing from the the older boat model that models to connectivity because this is already defined by the Ns. And some relevant text and diagram updates as well."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:00",
    "text": "Next to page. Yeah. So I I think we can't skip but this is just update in a motor relationship. And next to page. That's just a simple tree of the models. As you can see it's just adding the s that are this applied the two nodes links, t of the top. Next to page. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah skip it. Right? I think I can leave the rest of two t's got open issues. And also we discussed that on the side meeting. That will be reflected in the next update. You're not asking has a arrange code. Right? Okay. I have a question, but probably I will leave it for for the session tomorrow. Okay. Okay. Thanks. So thanks a lot. I think the that the first session of our new share went pretty well. So thanks a lot. Is already capable to run the pause and for, me took like he to do it are pretty sure it'll do very well. Thanks again. And the Ceo see you soon. Thank you. Bye bye."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:11",
    "text": "So"
  }
]
