[
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:36",
    "text": "that\u0027s funny but that is like hi if you\u0027re here for something other than Zack dispatch oh where you would like to be otherwise welcome um Kathleen Moriarty Richard Barnes together we are sick this bet all of us together I say we will dispatch to you all right note the note well alright so logistics I guess the first presentation will fall out of the normal format and Michael Richardson is gonna talk for four minutes and present for four and the rest of them have a 15-minute time slot I think we\u0027re gonna be 15 minutes presentation if it\u0027s a nice discussion yes anyone have last-minute modifications or proposals for agenda items last call before we launch into it all right seeing no agenda bashes Michael Richardson please join us on the stage there\u0027s a pink X up here with your name we got the bigger than in this video hi hello okay hi I\u0027m Michael Richardson and I have been working on a document called bootstrapping key infrastructure and it\u0027s an extension of RFC 70:30 which was produced by the PKK\u0027s working group and in the process of doing Interop testing we discovered some hoops ins next slide so RFC 70/30 runs over HTTPS and lets you view certificate enrollment using CMC methods and throughout the document it believes it\u0027s running over sy and rather than HTTP as a result it asks you to put content transfer encoding heading "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:36",
    "text": "your headers in with the say base64 and and then asks you to basically for stuff that could be binary and so that was a bit confusing so it turns out that it turns out that there are no actual real implementations out there of it that actually put the content transfer encoding header in because it\u0027s actually deprecated by all the HTTP documents so implementers are left wondering does that mean that I should put binary in the in what\u0027s there or base64-encoded and the answer is the document said to base64 encode it so they did with the result that people were like oh okay it\u0027s basic C 4 encoded well is Bruschi base64 encoded even though it doesn\u0027t say it and therefore we got into confusion things and it also makes it a little more confusing because people like to run things with curl which is really hard to dump binary objects into it but really easy to jump base64 things in and people don\u0027t always realize whether they\u0027re providing a convenient encoding to curl or whether they\u0027re actually that\u0027s what they\u0027re transmitting anyway so this is a document that basically shrimps to clarify these four four points two of them errata were raised by Shawn Turner next slide actually the content part two of them are raised by by Sean Turner on this topic there is an ASN one complaint about the document that it does it wrong and I actually and not I have no idea if it\u0027s right or wrong and I need help on that and then finally there\u0027s a typo that apparently in extra space that apparently when implementation believed was mandatory and insisted was there and then they realized it was just it was a typographic issue in the document when they tried to interoperate so those are four things that just a simple clarification document on it I don\u0027t think it\u0027s worth revising the best Ness document next slightly I don\u0027t believe it\u0027s worth revising the document are doing abyss at this point you may have seen my zero zero zero one documents which went on the assumption that content transfer encoding was actually being sent we actually could upgrade everything to binary if only we could change the what was there and after a fair number of feedback we realized this was impossible it\u0027s got to stay the way it is and we just need to document it as this is broken in the following way deal that\u0027s it any questions you know four minutes for questions if anyone would like to ask clarifications about the verification stuff or tell tell this group where the document should be processed so just to recall the dispatch "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:37",
    "text": "options we could form a new working group from this document yeah you could pull the ball we could dispatch the existing working group right maybe sponsor or we could tell you to go away are you telling your they ya gong yeah my suggestion is either to send it the documents of lamps which vaguely has impaired and P kick stuff and probably has the asn.1 clue to fix the other part or ad sponsor it and I believe Alexei has volunteered it just be better folks think that\u0027s appropriate Martin um non Thompson I have a slight preference for going to an existing working group if you but an existing working group if you if you can find one that is willing to take on the work some of these working groups don\u0027t really have the charters for it which makes it a little tricky so I don\u0027t really mind I also prefer that because I think it will get the better early review on the a s and one thing that it needs rather than happening at and discusses so um the thing that occurs is perhaps you could monkey patch this in some way using content encoding to avoid that base64 issue but I don\u0027t know if we have a base64 content encoding so that that would be new work and so it might you know content transfer encoding is not a thing in HTTP so yeah let\u0027s not pretend that happen but we might be able to do something that will for those that implement this correctly up to the new standard won\u0027t result in any confusion terms so of the four or five actions that are defined all but one are posts and so you have to the client has to somehow guess having never spoken to the server before like whether it accepts this new format or not and that turns out to be non-trivial unless we I don\u0027t know we go LPN or something I don\u0027t know what but do know me I think it\u0027s do not fix just yeah so just document it yeah all right so the hi I\u0027m Sean Turner the joke comm is we should just rename lamps P kicks wait forever but I think you should probably send it there since it\u0027s already kind of the P kicks thing even sorry shouldn\u0027t you should send it to lamps lamps and you should rename P kicks or lamps Topeka X Prime or something great like that made long live forever I think we should definitely fix these things I think I don\u0027t know I was considering whether we could use the HTTP except header to try to tell the server what you support there was something that Mark Nottingham suggested at one point that maybe there\u0027s some way we could figure out how to do that I don\u0027t know if that\u0027ll work but it\u0027s something to propose and I guess in the errata that I submitted there were some suggestions for workarounds about should be except to do this so that so maybe those weasel worrying work and maybe it won\u0027t fit and that actually works great for the response and I actually implemented it but it doesn\u0027t work for the post and then I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:37",
    "text": "went oh so I will step out of the way because I know I\u0027m no expert hi Berman didn\u0027t you we can say lamps and that that\u0027s okay I\u0027d love to hear folks are directing conferred Lance I would just remind we probably need to have a charter conversation yeah exactly so Rick Sol\u0027s the other reason that send it to lamps is that\u0027s where Jim shod and Russ Housley hang out and they are the asn.1 experts so thank you for making my point for me month olds back on the post issue there is now say that talks about content encoding and client requests and I think that we\u0027re almost in that area and so there\u0027s a there\u0027s a bunch of text about how to deal with that in that RC I can send it positive which document is this our seed med mid that I can\u0027t remember off the top of my head but I\u0027ll find it for you and send it off 72 72 30 series or or something else 70 to 30 so but one of those you mean yeah something something in the HTTP area yes okay about about content negotiation for post is what you\u0027re saying for okay exactly what are you talking about okay this is so the speakers know there\u0027s echoes off of this wall so it\u0027s weird I can hear it I can hear him both directly and off the wall and off the speaker so it\u0027s just really weird yeah Martin speak up so Michael it sounds like your preference is to go to lamps there\u0027s some comments from the floor that dispatch this to lamps Russell\u0027s a standing up is he coming to the mic as lamps chair okay Hades I\u0027m looking to units I\u0027m like a pause block um okay great so well consider this dispatched two lamps then thank you next up is dave carroll or some controller Ike okay it\u0027s like yeah oh they\u0027re up I can\u0027t see there should be a quicker there if you want try driving yourself does this not work alright umm so I\u0027m here to talk about controller Ike this is something we started doing in SD when work and it\u0027s been growing in the routing group a lot of interest in it it is basically a key management protocol there what is it Ike is basically a key management protocol that will drop in in place of standard Ike except it works through a controller you know the concept is there is no peer-to-peer direct messaging at a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:38",
    "text": "high level it\u0027s pretty simple so what we\u0027re doing is a different exchange just like you know the idea is to try to make it similar to diffie-hellman you would do in Ike but we\u0027re doing it through a controller and we\u0027re trying to keep the scale of the messaging down yeah so the problem we came up with that we had to address was that we had we\u0027re doing large-scale networks we were doing 10,000 plus nodes in a full mesh and there was too much hike going on the amount of traffic over the network was too high the complexity just was not manageable as an N squared and so by coming up with a controller based model we\u0027ve reduced the messaging to order n control basically each peer creates a different public value sends it to the controller controller collects these all and sends them all down the concept is very simple where this gets interesting is when you try to synchronize if you obviously you\u0027ll have to do rekeying and when rekeying happy you have the problem that keys get distributed to different periods at different times for redundancy reasons you\u0027ll want to have multiple controllers the state isn\u0027t always the same and so the draft that we put forward is addresses the synchronization and shows how you can handle that with a centralized controller base to key exchange yeah and the key there is no peer-to-peer messaging what isn\u0027t it we\u0027re not pushing this as a replacement to Ike obviously I guess stood the test of time it\u0027s around but in certain models this is we find this it to be a little more ideal it is also not a two-way attribute negotiation protocol you can you can end up with two peers in Ike that we may offer different things and the other wants in in this there is much more of a limit you\u0027ve got to but but in this model worth coming from a centralized controller and so we\u0027re not as worried about needing to negotiate completely disparate options there is a small ability to negotiate a hierarchy for you know you may have a couple of algorithms and you can negotiate down I won\u0027t go into the details but it\u0027s in there and the other the other key to this is we\u0027re not providing the secure communication to the controller so this is a protocol that is embedded in something else in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:39",
    "text": "the VIP Telos cisco the the Pella sp1 products we have our own protocol that is secure in the routing working groups we are working with bgp insecure bgp messages and that\u0027s all taken care of as part of the communication to the route reflector so why do we want to do this so the key for us is optimization we reduce the complexity reproduce the messaging from N squared to n but there\u0027s there\u0027s other attributes to this that are really have been really helpful for us in SD Wham\u0027s so one of the one of the keys that we found is we have customers that want to do control over a managed secure network they may have an MPLS link that\u0027s provision they have whatever they have but the data doesn\u0027t necessarily go over that same network and this allows us to do control over one messaging over another the other side of it is we work at at least one customer that had some very odd shaped networks they had links that were not bi-directional and so you have a case where two peers cannot talk to each other by directionally but they can each talk to the controller and so we can provide a way to do key management and still have a one-way IPSec tunnel so where is this being used I\u0027ll throw it a few drafts here these are things that are being pushed forward in some other working groups I know IDR I think it\u0027s tomorrow is gonna be talking a lot about security architecture and directions that this is headed and this is it hopefully intended to be one part of that architecture Wednesday got it not tomorrow and you know and this has been discussed drafts with this have been presented in best it\u0027s been discussed in IDR even the I to NSF work has looked into this and this could fit in very well with the I to NSF infrastructure though not as the not as the messaging portion just the configuration much like Ike who will skip by that so when is when is stuff happening there are currently two implementations of this draft that are known to be there to be fair and honest they are very incestuously related so maybe it\u0027s not quite - but the stuff is working it is going it\u0027s also currently under consideration a number of working groups that are looking to try to integrate a controller based key management for uh for SD lands for overlay networking and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:42",
    "text": "then this is kind of my last slide I\u0027ve tried to do this rather quickly and the next question is one can we do something else something to move forward Erika scroll so I guess first answer to a clarifying question on when you say it\u0027s not in squared it\u0027s n what do you what units are you counting in messages okay cuz it is N squared in helmand calculations are still N squared sin squared data transmission as well right because you have to send every grace to send and October since and out everybody can write so if those are unidirectional connections they still one squared right it\u0027s 2n everybody sends a message up to the controller the controller sends a message down to everybody else but that message can if that\u0027s the addressing data in messages right anyway this is 2n it\u0027s order n again if you\u0027re counting messages versus bytes things are very very different but anyway so on your pain I mean so this is like by the way skip um in case nobody here people don\u0027t remember history this is basically the same protocol that Sun originally proposed Friday SEC and was and we ended up selecting Ike and as we\u0027ve skipped you\u0027re paying a lot for this which is you\u0027re not getting PFS and you have the odd protocol design without confirmation so I guess I guess as I said of my email um an alternative design is to do effectively is to basically do key establishment only when you need it and then basically overhead you\u0027re paying is whatever messages you\u0027re sending in addition to the actual communication you\u0027re setting because I assume you do intend to send packets right do intend to send data packets right exactly um so not necessarily bidirectionally understood but you don\u0027t need but on there there are plenty of designs which don\u0027t require by commercial communication and still get you better guarantees than this does so you know I\u0027m not trying to push forward that this draft is the be-all end-all protocol for a controller based model but I would like to start the discussion on a controller based model not using the peer-to-peer well I guess I would encourage you to sharpen I encourage you to see the requirements where I wasn\u0027t stating the design you\u0027re looking for um because it seems to me that the requirements bit won\u0027t back out of this don\u0027t necessarily get you to the conclusion you just got to okay I\u0027m not sure what requirements are well you\u0027re saying you don\u0027t want to do peer to peer but why I\u0027m slow say again you said you don\u0027t want to do peer to peer but what we source are you conserving i I don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:43",
    "text": "always have peer-to-peer bi-directional communication I\u0027m conserving Methodism Natives it\u0027s not just like propose an alternative hypothetical here imagining everyone has bi-directional connectivity to a controller one one design you could adopt is to do normal Ike directly between the normal Ike from one peer to another but tunneled via those controller connections right as well so so that you do normal Ike full mesh but over the controller connection because you have bi-directional constant connectivity that way so I guess I I think kind of what occurs asking is like how does this design differ from that one given that both of those use the controller to route messages between the various endpoints well at that point you know again now you\u0027re doing N squared message and you\u0027re doing it all through the controller which is going to become quite a bottleneck I this this is where we came up with as a more optional I was right that so my follow up that might clarify what Richards and my question is do you have a goal to be able to work between split brain controllers where there\u0027s multiple controllers and they no longer the partitions in parts of the network and still have things happen in other words do you have an idea that you might also be doing ike between controllers to build meshes between networks that were partitioned as for us from there on their control links I have implementations that do that today we work we work with multiple and other local controllers where each peer may only talk to one of the controller doesn\u0027t look like IP to between the two controllers it does not do i ke to between it does something very very similar to this so please Holly said Jesse so one of the use cases for the controller is bgp route reflector and our redundancy built into it and we do this point emotionally it is been there past 15 20 years being truant and the idea and we\u0027ve have we\u0027ve had many services VPN services based on this controller last but not least a VPN and there is requirement to be able to add security features to evpn and leverage that controller and this is one of the draft that we are introducing in the best and ideal working group and it is getting good traction and the idea is I have the controller I\u0027m doing this signaling for my VPN and many other things I\u0027d like to be able to use the same controller to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:43",
    "text": "to leverage it for point-to-point tunneling soda so the signaling connection is point-to-multipoint the signaling but the tunnel IPSec tunnel that they set up as a result of their signaling his point-to-point and the work in terms of how the signaling is done as I said we\u0027ve introduced a trap in best and we\u0027re getting fairly good very good interest on it then the downbar from choo-choo I I strongly support this proposal I think the IPSec have been the industry for many decades right primarily is peer to peer however in today\u0027s environment for example for enterprise going to the cloud or Enterprise going to multiple clouds you have an edge device it\u0027s no longer just one connection to make here we\u0027re talking about multiple connections I have an edge device I may have five 10 tenants connected to my edge device each attendant in to talk to their peers right so from one edge supposedly if I have just simply 10 no that\u0027s not talking about 100 nodes Network 10 node Network if I had to talk to connect with all my dear so that means I have to have 9 connection to all my peers but if I have 5 tenants attached each of them need a cassette so that\u0027s 5 times 9 so for one node today I have to support 45 peer-to-peer key management that\u0027s a lot of work and in addition to that for SD one or the device connecting to the multiple cloud there\u0027s always always a controller doesn\u0027t matter it\u0027s not just for this particular purpose for other purposes neither controller so as a device today you already have a secure connection with the controller through that secure connection you can distribute all those key informations not directly key information per se but rekey mechanism all those kind of requires to rekey so that make the whole network scalable otherwise just unimaginable OneNote probably have to handle hundreds of keys and that\u0027s just not manageable by a small virtual device especially I support this maybe this exactly mechanism doesn\u0027t have to be the one but it\u0027s controller paged IKEA has to be in something to be discussed idea so we have about a minute left per person before needs to start wrapping this up so please be breathing okay yeah you have mirror culture effect Alyssa this was presented in nitro NSF and I to a surface has this document about using a controller to initiate IPSec and you have two modes or cases and one with I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:44",
    "text": "can run without like a class installed and we saw this is kind of a middle ground and what I\u0027m missing is what does this give you that the I less that case it does not give you so so in the I - and it\u0027s a flow projection the eyeglass case is simply having keys produced at the controller and pushed down to the ends so the controller now owns or knows every key used in the network there\u0027s certain obvious limitations to that sort of model in the past I\u0027ve spoken in I to NSF about trying to integrate this into that flow and since then this is somewhat evolved with the routing groups and the notion would be that I to NSF would be used to configure the static configuration for either an IKE or a controller Ike but then the actual dynamic messaging would happen through a route reflector not through the I to NSF yang model I think that\u0027s a much cleaner design with what I to NSF has put forward but I don\u0027t see where we need both that both this and that\u0027s too many ways to get to the same thing so does this need to be revisited in Knight to NSF after developments yet the document is pretty much done so not with this document if somebody wants to extend it later I can assess maybe the home I so so the architecture that\u0027s currently being put forward in best as far as these dynamic routing models has a configuration server that configures nodes as they come online they need to do some sort of ztp or something else to connect to the network and they get a configuration pushed but then there\u0027s the dynamic routing where they send the overlay routing to the RR and that would be a more ideal place to send key management updates yeah so I think insert dispatch here and we\u0027re not like building the protocol it sounds to me like there\u0027s some confusion about the actual requirements here maybe you put people is by me and since designing aches is kind of like difficult and getting em right is not easy but they could be really useful to get like a somewhat clearer statement about how this problem domain is sufficiently different from other problems that means that we can\u0027t lovers and they already have and I think then exchange you and I had earlier suggest to these I don\u0027t understand this properly I\u0027m telling my fault but um so I think interest dispatching this what we were helpful BJ said we have a clear problem statements that actually make clear like what this use case how it\u0027s different and potentially in ways that are more constrained in a way in perhaps bandwidth in ways that are less constrained insurers have any controller available right and then we can see what protocol actually makes sense from a super-intense asterick Union we hadn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:49",
    "text": "you know presentation of tha gave me some time ago I remember and conclusion was that we said that I need to do which I paycheck so we don\u0027t want to do it the night basic fucking crew so if somebody could propose that that\u0027s a solution to that we are not going to take it like this again me because this doesn\u0027t have anything to check the other problem I have disease is that it\u0027s assumes like arrow saying you don\u0027t have really requirements this assumes that your whole network is stuck because they if you have if you start building this network one by one you have one node that you add one node then even a dog then her unsecured okay because every time you add a note you need to send that one note sent a packet to controller controller sent a packet to everybody to tell us oh that\u0027s happening you know public key here and then somebody else it says again so every time you set up notice and end packets and you add in notes it\u0027s n times in so into it so but your if of course if you have everything ready you have 10,000 notes there you can send the 10,000 you know perfect case at the same time and you know the network starts the other problem I have there is that you have to always you know you know the benefits for Ike is that you create the keys only when you need if you have 10,000 nodes there you don\u0027t have to trade in Harran SS when you boot up you create only those it says if you need it when you talk to somebody and in most of the networks or environments you don\u0027t need to talk to everybody in the network every time all the time you talk to you know handful of people who are no next to you are all discography so you have very you know strict requirements that are not really you know or or use case is very specific this kind of you have static network where everybody happens to talk to everybody all the time and you create the whole network in the beginning so let me address both of those actually this works really well in dynamic networks when you start bringing nodes online the node simply has to contact one source the route reflector as it were in there in the routing model and update it with its diffie-hellman information as well as the overlay routes that it knows alright and the overlay router is regularly sending these updates to all the other routers so it\u0027s it gets to them anyway he\u0027s not adding to any load we had you know if you have 99 nodes and you add one more it\u0027s simply the next update from that controller is going to have a hundred entries instead of 99 it it done tends to work really but that that still sent a hundred messages 100 nodes Bitsy\u0027s you know yes yes because because you send periodic messages with Ike doesn\u0027t you actually generating much more traffic because who sent every now and send you have hundred messages to everybody telling that they you know you were you were sending the controller was sending 99 messages out anyway yeah it\u0027s the latest status update here\u0027s the latest "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:49",
    "text": "update on the routes here\u0027s the latest update on if you being at home in a message sees your send over their lifetime of the network I think that actually is bigger than what they go to what you do when you actually create the ITSs Phil hamburger it strikes me that this isn\u0027t so much a key exchange as a message flow and I\u0027m very interested in this and here\u0027s why quantum resistance I mean other moment but no solution for it you know there are proposals but the only thing that we could deploy today will be Kerberos and this actually if you look at the protocol level it\u0027s looking pretty close to clear Kerberos and so I think it\u0027s interesting to look at as a fail-safe in the quantum resistance world and so I\u0027m interested in that point of view as far as where it gets dispatched to I\u0027m pretty sure that this is not an ad sponsored draft so I think that it\u0027s a working group it sounds like it\u0027s not IPSec so the question is whether it\u0027s a working report not anything at all so so just to add real quick we\u0027ve done you know a bunch of thinking about quantum resistance with this and if it needs more work but yes when they cut the lines here and again please be brief Sunnis since you\u0027re doing a performance optimization here I was wondering whether you posted something about the details of that performance improvements because I was caught a little bit confused on the discussions on the scalability aspects which I didn\u0027t quite see in like in the number of notes that were mentioned I don\u0027t I would like to see some of those details clarifying he\u0027s doing a performance optimization I\u0027m maybe he has already written up something about the details on the performance gains that he expects to see but I\u0027m just not aware of those thank you just from that mike is super hard to hear up here okay for everyone how many sensory I think there was a misunderstanding by the other gentleman who was here and talking about if you add a note then you\u0027re gonna end up sending tons of messages that\u0027s not the case when you add a note that note talks to the rot reflector which is the controller and gets the information from the controller so you\u0027re not sending any other messages and the saving is on the ingress notes or the note that you keep adding to the network those can be a very low power low low end notes that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:51",
    "text": "don\u0027t have the you know the CPU capacity of sending or n messages and in this case we are just the note send a single message to the controller and whoever comes up taps of the controller and gets that message and they get their public keys and calculate the Cherokee dan yeah thanks again Harkins so I noticed that there\u0027s been some people coming in the mic and talking to you about better ways to do this you know Eric head of suggesting territory isn\u0027t Alaska I\u0027m sorry I don\u0027t know your name we\u0027re talking about you know different ways to solve this problem or to do it better or something else so it looks like there\u0027s enough interest in this kind of a problem and so I think when is probably you know real soon now and probably right now but I think we\u0027re I don\u0027t see why I can\u0027t go into IPSec this is no more of a weirdo key exchange them like the G DOI stuff that we did so it\u0027s it seems like if process is the reason we wouldn\u0027t do this it seems like a really poor outcome for the ietf it looks like there\u0027s enough interest and do something like this looks like it solves a problem so I mean let\u0027s put it in IPSec if we got to change the Charter than let\u0027s change the Charter it\u0027s so what well I mean I would I would have to say you know I don\u0027t want to disagree with the IPSec can be working working group chairs but to me this is an IPSec thing yeah we\u0027re using the sole easy purpose in just a second you know we\u0027re using this solely for the purpose of wreaking IPSec it\u0027s know it\u0027s providing a function that I provides it\u0027s providing a function that the GUI stuff did you are using yes we\u0027re not using IPSec he allows you to create ESP pockets if your key he is as much of I can DC\u0027s yes you can use multiple key management protocols to create IPSec SI or from a ESPs keying material an ESP no sponsors but but that\u0027s not make it that doesn\u0027t make it I basic and the people in the IPSec can make group are interesting IPSec which includes arc and they were not interesting on this because they see that they\u0027re only you know very small piece of this is the ESP that is common what they are going now so as I said heap has his babies using ESP it has exactly same common you know understanding that this one I mean I don\u0027t want to have a heap coming here jido is actually using I person to messaging between the you know peers and it\u0027s actually using like person to frame that\u0027s why it\u0027s much more concern that there was lots of people who were saying oh do we actually want to do that the option was to have a separate you know working group or or and we decided that it still has some most of the same people would be interested that\u0027s why it\u0027s in there I wish I can make again "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:54",
    "text": "since it\u0027s a dispatch group I think we should first which consensus is of some work we should do from istea perspective and heard a comment about adding one new node or trigger so many messages I just want at one more point that in like for example use SDI as an example all the notes have to get controller to dictate who we can communicate you because we\u0027re talking about the overlay Network I\u0027m here in Montreal I have my period in Dallas and I don\u0027t just talk to Dallas maybe I\u0027m not even allowed to talk to him the controller has to dictate who I talk to so it makes more sense I have a controller dictated I get controlled a key so that they can send to the control group but that\u0027s just one more requirement that thing we should okay thank you speak we\u0027re gonna try to wrap up wraps up here yeah I mean so there\u0027s I think still some lack of clarity among many people in the audience part about what the requirements are we heard some talk in passing about the overlay Network and maybe an implication that the second is really bad and maybe the implication that with overlay Network you need to actually need to give every node the key from every other node which would get into some the scaling and number of messages questions that were raised so it\u0027s not really clear that the people in the room have the information that they need to make the dispatch question maybe we should have more discussion maybe we should have a mailing list that we can do that or do you want to keep it on sexist nuts yeah yeah as you guys like and I think we could have some discussion on psych dispatch because it\u0027s still discussing how to dispatch it or if you\u0027d like a new list or you can have a more focused discussion more focus group I\u0027m sure and I\u0027d say you\u0027ve gotten a lot of good feedback there\u0027s a really active discussion so you know some of the points that came out for revising their requirements so that they were clear and a revision of the draft would be helpful if the ABS want it on a separate list that of course is is an option or we continue to leave it discussed on SEC dispatch for a while until it\u0027s found at home but it there\u0027s their interest I\u0027m comfortable leaving it on SEC dispatch unless there\u0027s a desire to have a view [Music] okay so nothing for now except revised and defined requirements more clearly right and then we see you figure out next steps okay thank you thank you oh I\u0027m Tom Baker I\u0027m here to present on the mathematical mesh so internet security "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:57",
    "text": "is broken it\u0027s broken because we keep being told it\u0027s broken in the news and if you look at what we do here we use very little cryptography that isn\u0027t described in Bruce Schneier blue book we don\u0027t use anything from the red book we\u0027ve improved some of our algorithms but we\u0027re still approaching the problems in the same way the things like s/mime open PGP the user spending too much effort they\u0027re not using them and they\u0027re not going to change so we\u0027ve got to change our approach and if you look at the problems out there most of the breaches of a data at rest and we focus on transport we\u0027ve got to look at the data at rest problem as well because that\u0027s where the breaches are the approach that I want to approach apply here is meta cryptography I want to go beyond the PGP Canon and one key cryptography des allows you to solve a lot of problems you know ATM systems were made possible by debts however two key cryptography allows you to do more because you can separate out the roles when encryption and decryption of different keys different people can do it so if one key cryptography is good and two keys are better why don\u0027t we try yeah so it\u0027s about moving towards more keys more separation of roles more separation of duties and this allows you to do some really cool stuff like have a cloud service that with all the encrypted data but can encrypt stuff but doesn\u0027t have the ability to decrypt because it doesn\u0027t have any other it\u0027s the key manager it doesn\u0027t have acne actual keys so the solution I\u0027ve come up with for this is more than just an application it\u0027s really a platform and when you look at what you need to support this and make it usable by end-users you need to do three basic things you need to be able to join together that all their devices into one Gestalt so that they can read the word document read the Excel spreadsheet read their email on any one of them now people aren\u0027t going to use PGP if you can\u0027t read your email on every one of your devices you currently do so you don\u0027t have a way of doing that key portability you have to have a way of establishing trusted relationship with other users and you have to have a secure control plane messaging to support all of the above and the thing is that when you\u0027ve got all that infrastructure to support this one application well you can use it to secure almost everything else or to make "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:59",
    "text": "the use of anything else easy when I show this to Dave Clark he said well SSH can you do something about making SSH easy to use because thing about SSH is ok it\u0027s not that difficult to use however if you make a mistake in the wrong time somebody\u0027s got to get on a plane to fix it and I\u0027ve done that so I\u0027ve designed it in such a way that you can reuse this thing in other stuff and it\u0027s designed with the deployment strategy that even though this cloud computing multi key cryptography is where I want to end up that that\u0027s not the first application I\u0027m looking to sell it as the bunch of technology out there I\u0027m going to go through a summary of just a few of them but there\u0027s more technology there and it can be used and it\u0027s all MIT license is all unencumbered as far as I\u0027m aware it should be good to go so one of those technologies is PGP fingerprints revisited allow us to represent any output not just an md5 as a base 32 encrypted screen and apply this to content digests to nonces encryption secrets Jameer secret sharing h max allow you to present that data in the same syntax now you\u0027re asking why aren\u0027t these URIs well they\u0027re not you are eyes themselves but you can put them in any URI and here\u0027s what you can get from you putting it in you your I so we have here an encryption key and we\u0027ve added to it a domain okay so that is a u RN with a domain it can\u0027t be resolved by a regular browser but if you take the fingerprint the content digest of the encryption key and you slap the well-known service on top now we\u0027ve got a locator we can pull an encrypted document and then use that encryption secret to decrypt it okay so now we\u0027ve got a URI that allows you to D retrieve and decrypt the information let\u0027s just that as a QR code and now you can put something on your business card that links to a PGP fingerprint that\u0027s actually actionable locatable and so i use this type of technology to connect devices to a personal mesh or contacts to a mesh account and you could also use it though on applications like put a QR code on an invoice or a bill or your tax return links to electronic copy there off and all that data in the cloud is all encrypted so even if the crowd is breached the data isn\u0027t one of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "technologies is the replacement for pkcs7 now this wouldn\u0027t be essential in itself but the reason that I needed to fill with it was because I wanted to do the multi key cryptography stuff and bowtie and finish there wasn\u0027t much pkcs7 left and so I get rid of the legacy and I designed it so that you can stack envelopes together to make a container so you can now do blockchain type integrity checks you can create a Merkel tree as you add your envelopes the container take the envelope out give it to somebody check the signature on it and now you\u0027ve got one signature check one signature on the container can authenticate any message so it\u0027s a way of doing incremental authentication you can also do incremental encryption so one key exchange at the start of the log file can be used to encrypt a subsequent entry and these are all flexible you know their options not requirements so what can we do to create applications out of there well in the mesh I use these to support my mesh accounts mesh accounts belong to the user not a service so when you go and you start up the mesh you create accounts for yourself and then you decide whether you want Google or Microsoft or whoever to support them and you want to change you can because they\u0027re designed to be low switching costs we could use the same exact technology for your server logs so that you can get to GDP our compliance or rather make it cheaper to get to certain types of GDP our compliance where you\u0027re trying to make sure that you know exactly who is reading your server logs and who is analyzing them so what I\u0027m trying to do here this is almost zero trust cryptography but not quite I\u0027m trying to distrust each party as much as possible by separation of roles so if I buy a piece of equipment I attached it to I mmm mesh I don\u0027t want to trust any key that the manufacturer has put in there during manufacture but I certainly want to make the use of such a key in particular if it\u0027s put in there during manufacture in such a way that it can\u0027t ever come out and so I use the same meta cryptographic techniques that allow me to split keys to combine them and this is all technology that Matt Blais table and medicine and others developed in the 1990s and didn\u0027t get used because it wasn\u0027t part of the PGP Canon and so it\u0027s about moving forward beyond that kind to do something else so as I mentioned I have a messaging plane here now the idea here is not to replace smtp well not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:05",
    "text": "immediately but to have a mechanism that is limited to sending control messages that is guaranteed to be end-to-end secure this is guaranteed to provide certain traffic analysis resistance capabilities and is also abuse resistant every message that is sent as a message is access controlled at the sending service and the receiving service so it doesn\u0027t prevent spam absolutely but it makes it very difficult to make a profit sending spam now I apply this to manage that secure contact exchange to manage the connection of devices to a personal mesh but it can also be used for other things yeah 50 line application is provides us with two-factor authentication a few more lines allows us to go beyond two-factor so say I want to add somebody you know say I\u0027m adding some payee to my bank account my bank could send me a message to say do you really want to use to add this person to the account yes or no I can say yes and that goes a signed statement that is a second factor authentication because it\u0027s bound to the device but it\u0027s also bound to the semantics of the transaction that are actually accepted which is something you don\u0027t get with the numeric code second factor authentication so I\u0027ve given you a brief and you know we\u0027ll win tour of a bunch of Technology and I hope that it\u0027s not being too insensible but the question that I\u0027ve now got is where do we go from here yeah and releasing this stuff there\u0027s already the Alpha is out there on github and I need to start releasing this in the fall because that\u0027s when universities start and that\u0027s when undergrads and graduate students start looking for projects and so I want to get this and you know I want this to become a standard somewhere the ITF looks like it\u0027s probably the best fit it may not be you know if the ITF doesn\u0027t want it I\u0027ll have to take it somewhere else so the question is you know is this ready for ITF work you know do we need to look at it as an RTF thing first if should we start the working group you know should we do it as experimental or whatever but you know I\u0027m coming here now because I\u0027m gonna start deploying and the minute that I start to get users I\u0027m going to be protecting those users I\u0027m not going to be wanting to make changes that might introduce backwards compatibility so well unless there\u0027s a real value to doing it so you know speak now or hold your peace yeah so that\u0027s it so comments people\u0027s on us all I have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:05",
    "text": "two questions first question is IP our second question is how does this fit with existing security protocols who pretty much assumes the one or two key model okay so on IP are there is no IP are on any of the stuff that represented today that I\u0027m aware of I\u0027m aware of prior art that would invalidate most claims that go back for to the 1990s as I said this was the basic techniques were developed by Matt glaze table and pedis and others this is threshold cryptography there\u0027s a fairly well-established literature so I don\u0027t believe that there\u0027s an IPR blocking issue there or my code is MIT license so it\u0027s open source in the most open source license now as far as integrating with two key cryptography now you can use the mesh to distribute private key pairs to two devices views with s/mime or with PGP or anything else the only restriction that you have there is that you would have to be using if you\u0027re going to make use but if you just want to distribute RSA keys you can if you wanted to use make use of the freaky stuff within PGP we could extend PGP or s/mime to make use of it however you would then have to use elliptic curve diffie-hellman or find some other threshold cryptography scheme the threshold cryptography schemes I use they\u0027re currently using IDI for 48 the CFR G curve and I\u0027m using that for signature and encryption I can use curve X as what instead but because it\u0027s Montgomery I have to write a different set of code I didn\u0027t want to do that for expedience reviews I can take offline so you killed use this with open PGP you don\u0027t change encryption at all the only thing that changes is decription alright Thompson thanks for bringing this here this is really huge and that is kind of what I\u0027m trying to get to and if in my opinion at least if the ITF it takes on work of this nature it\u0027s kind of a major project in the sense that WebRTC was a major project or sip was a major project or something along those lines so I would suggest at a minimum this requires above and it\u0027s good that you bring it here and having the discussions but it also suggests that if you say "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:05",
    "text": "you\u0027re not willing to change your your code there might be a problem because there\u0027s going to take a little while to get this thing working oh absolutely I\u0027m absolutely willing you know if somebody will come to me and say we need to change that or whatever I\u0027m perfectly willing to do that however if somebody came to me today and said hey Phil I read your drafts and you know if you just changed this or you did this this way yeah I could make radical changes under the hood and the cost of that would be zero if however we go down the line and it\u0027s kind of like people you know did you yeah so I\u0027m just saying you know please don\u0027t wait until people have started to adopt it to read the drafts and then come and say oh but you need to do it in sn1 it\u0027s kind of like yep so I\u0027m absolutely happy to make changes you know I mean at the moment you know this is kind of like the autistic world according to Phil yeah I\u0027m aware of that and I am I want to have as much input as possible I\u0027m just I do have a question for you um how many other implementers do you have interested in at the moment to have no implementers but you know I\u0027m coming here to say you know I mean one of the requirements for a buff is that people have to have seen it which is why I\u0027m presenting here before yeah um thanks for presenting this um budgeting stuff here um I guess I was sort of seeing something same things Martin was asking I guess this would be a little easier for you to assimilate if it weren\u0027t all one monolithic thing I understand that I understand you think of this components but it\u0027s hard for me to reason about it that way so you\u0027re realistically we\u0027re not gonna replace SSH however much one might not like it and realistic I mean realistic we had this since normos installed base of like of like things right and my experience I\u0027m sure yours has been is that you know those things don\u0027t don\u0027t die easily so absolutely this is not about replacing SSH but what you could use here is instead of use it I mean the problem with SSH from my point of view is people use it but they don\u0027t necessarily use it securely and if you look at some of the guides for how to secure SSH that are out there on the web I mean it\u0027s like mail yourself the private key so that you can have it on your devices and it\u0027s kind of like so you but you could use it for is to distribute the SSH keys so then you can use them it\u0027s got backwards compatibility it\u0027s just that I could have used instead of the Dare envelope I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:05",
    "text": "could have used pkcs7 I could have used their said Wan I did Jason and that type of stuff sure yeah I guess so what make me me it easier at least for me to understand situation um I mean I think I understand the threat hold stuff like poison we weld but we can either understand your vision I think if I understand how it fit in with the things like sort of committed to later or not yeah honest pill on the mailing list you said that you believe that this was also applicability to the IOD environment that I was curious on whether you could have elaborate on that a little bit to the what the Internet of Things right so yes so I could one of the things that the reason I think that Alice needs some wit Mayo connecting all the devices to something that she controls is that right now I have an enormous number of IOT devices I\u0027ll be talking about this on my Thursday rant on the Pecha Kucha session so I\u0027ve got about don\u0027t tell the wife okay so I have an incredible amount of IOT stuff and I have an enormous amount of accounts with services to manage them and because of that I don\u0027t have an Internet of Things none of my devices will talk to each other and it\u0027s got worse not better you know I have all these nest devices and they used to talk and now they\u0027re not going to talk and so what we can do with the so if every device has a set of keys for encryption or authentication and signature that are layered into the device when they join my mesh then they can talk to coordination you know dashboards that I control and I can get to the point you know what I want to do is to drive up to the house and for the doors to open the lights to go on and so I need that intervention scripting but right now I can\u0027t have it and we can\u0027t have it because the model that everybody has is you can the device connects up to the service in the cloud to an account run by the IOT device provider and then my hub in my house connects up to that hub and then when the Internet\u0027s out my house is offline so in the IOT world this is a way that you can avoid depending upon that service and a way that we can get from this current not an internet of things things that just happen to have Ethernet or Wi-Fi or Bluetooth but aren\u0027t internet because they won\u0027t work with each other and the thing is that it will be easier and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:06",
    "text": "cheaper for you to use my stuff as it from toolkit than to invent it yourself Thanks hi Sean Turner hey Phil I think you\u0027ve been doing this for maybe longer than I have so I would say that based on your pitch right now I would say that this work is not applicable to the IHF because it didn\u0027t really sound like you were willing to take changes if you this work gets adopted by the IETF you might not even be the author of the working group drafts if there was a working group so whatever the working group consensus would be to change it we change it so maybe you just misspoke but I just want to make it clear like you do understand that if this were to happen oh absolutely uh you know there\u0027s two types of changes that happen here right one of them is somebody says okay we want to do this functionality we want to add that yeah that stuff perfectly fine if suddenly comes to me and say oh that\u0027s great but I want you to do it all in sn1 an email you though that\u0027s the problem the rights of the working group consensus is we want to come up with some new encoding scheme and call it unki Squa sn2 or whatever like that\u0027s just the way it will of the working group yeah I guess I guess if you understand that that\u0027s ok and I think everyone here does yeah I mean if there\u0027s a group of people who are willing to do it and implement and deploy I mean like yeah but you know if it\u0027s kind of like right the point is that right now if you had some idea that you you think would radically improve the functionality and there was no other reason rather than your personal I could do it I mean we all know that the standardization process sometimes introduces silly chains that we don\u0027t understand or don\u0027t like like at the end we had one thing that was a bit string and it was like please change to a boolean I mean like sometimes things things gotta happen but you kind of got to do it if that\u0027s the consensus oh yeah it\u0027s basically like the same with security requirements where we ask people to read the drafts early rather than late I\u0027m just making that point that you know please read the stuff now don\u0027t wait for two years for me to have users and then for me to say yeah that would be a really good idea for us to do then but you know oh you know legacy deployments great but it\u0027s also a tract rich sauce yes both ways so part of me feels like this is sort of like contributing to global warming because the oceans are getting all boiled away and maybe if there were a simpler smaller piece that could be split off and it seems that potentially the UDF stuff because I know other groups have wrestled with naming key openpgp i think was the last one the guy trying to do it um so i recommend pulling that work out skipping the fact "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:07",
    "text": "that it\u0027s got 75 possible use cases and it\u0027s the solution to world hunger and just address it\u0027s a way to distribute a name keys that is no web compatible oh yeah i mean that would make great sense and the fingerprint piece could actually be pulled out as a separate unit the other stuff kind of depends upon the fingerprints as a fundamental infrastructure so I would take this single presented as an iw conference actually and talk to the self sovereign people I think you\u0027d have a lot in common with them and there is a at least conceptually there is there seems to be some overlap with what they try to do I\u0027m not advocating that stuff myself but I think well in humane a little bit maybe but I would actually go talk to this out so learn identity people they I think let\u0027s I\u0027m not touching the word self sovereign identity go go go for self sovereign identity you look at the stuff that they talk about it it looks a lot like this they they\u0027re trying to address sort of the same problems again and again I I don\u0027t I personally run with that crowd sigh I couldn\u0027t tell you more about the details but I do know that they meet at this conference cycle in in Silicon Valley called the internet identity workshop and I think that in that slide the answer to the question of where go talk to them first I think before you know deciding this needs to be in ITF this needs to be in the idea thanks Brett Jordan I really like this thank you for doing this work I think it\u0027s really great I\u0027d love to work with you on it whether it\u0027s here whether somewhere whether it\u0027s on the moon I don\u0027t care I think there\u0027s some really neat things that could solve a lot of problems so thank you for doing the work thank you hi so personally thank you for bringing this kind of here kind of chatting with that and listen the community I think that folks have poked at interesting parts of exactly what you\u0027re suggesting I think that there were tactical suggestions in terms of responding about kind of scope what about this what about that but I think the overriding thing that resonates for us is this is a big thing there is no way we can move we can move forward with something of you know the full scope we were even a narrow scope without a bomb so we would strongly encourage you to oh yeah I mean I anticipated that I know one of the things I am trying to grip the reason I brought it here was that the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:07",
    "text": "precondition for having a buff has to be that there\u0027s in the right people at the buff and that they\u0027ve actually looked at the technology beforehand so I didn\u0027t want to a soar above here because if I did you know then you know nobody would know about the work so you know I\u0027m very happy going forward with a buff I if people have you know my current research concern on it is working out how to scale because at the moment I\u0027ve I\u0027ve gone run the numbers I can run a million users but this is targeting a billion so if people could help me on that right now I\u0027d be very grateful but yeah I mean a boss would that would be my preferred way ahead so a quick question while you\u0027re at the mic since the next step for this could be a bath should we set up a separate mailing list specific to this work to track it I think I would make sense if you\u0027re up for that absolutely yes I\u0027ve been very going back to the IPR piece I\u0027ve been very careful to only discuss this on less that have a note well equivalents and so I want to make sure that we maintain the IPR situation thank you great so mailing lists and stuff thank you thank you very much all right so the summary from all of them all right so the first presentation was if anybody wants to talk about it afterwards meet me yeah and we\u0027ll announce the list name whatever it is or Phil will on the suck dispatch list so you can follow along thank you so from the first the extra from Michael the decision was that we would dispatch it to lamps for the controller Ike the go forward there was to specify requirements revise the draft based on feedback and to continue the discussion for now on tech dispatch to figure out next steps and for Phil\u0027s presentation on mathematical mesh that go forward is this needs a buff it\u0027s a large body of work and the go forward discussions will be on a separate mailing list announced on this one soon so is there anything else blue sheets did everyone find them and where are they have to return them you can\u0027t take them home all right so just to be good wrap up with the blue sheets if you figure out oh ok so the blue sheets didn\u0027t make this side of the room can are they just sitting somewhere on a chair oh right ok I\u0027ll bring em around for you ok thank you although now we\u0027re done thanks thank you everyone "
  }
]