[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:08",
    "text": "hi folks let's give everybody a couple more minutes maybe five minutes before we get started and feel free to come on video to say hi if you want to because that's what we do and that's hello hello everyone I hope you can hear me yes I can hear you there actually something to say to the chairs uh unfortunately I'll be not be able to attend the whole two hours I don't know like if we need the two hours but if you need my input on anything if you can take those early in this call that would be great help yeah and I had Aaron uh tell me that he's gonna have to jump off after an hour or two so let's try to get there kind of heaviest stuff out of the way early on hi everyone you have a very light yeah your life is really you're in the dark yes well it's uh it's practically sunrise here in the west coast so I know I got that at 6 30. brutal and I see folks are trickling in hi and I just told people that we're gonna start at five past to give everybody a little time too jump on me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "Smurfs in the background okay foreign foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:51",
    "text": "past the hour and I expect more people to join because usually we got more of our editors on authors joining that I suggest we are we can get started now because a couple people have to jump off early everyone what do you think okay yes hi you said yes okay um so welcome everybody to our tabs enter a meeting where we're gonna be discussing some of the comments that we got and I saw that we've already had uh a lot of discussion and work done on the GitHub so let's um so I suggest we store it from our open PRS do we have a volunteer to drive our GitHub pretty please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:21",
    "text": "Michael here Michael yeah please try or get tab yes yes let me see how to share um here got it oh that so now let's make it bigger yeah you mean the font yes okay a little more a little more even more okay yes okay [Music] okay it's huge yeah it looks good this looks good that looks good all right thank you okay shall we go through the pull request first and then the issues or what do you want to do yeah I suggest that I mean in particular we have a title change and we have uh I guess um language changes associated with that in the architecture document and so I suggest we start there title change that will be this one objections to that yes uh yeah there was a first attempt second attempt I think was the one that Corey"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "intended to be for real instead and I'm not sure if we want to discuss that one in isolation or if it goes together with further changes in the architecture document I'll let gory speak to that exactly it should be gory just oh unless here yeah can I talk oh my God why do I have sound coming out of the speaker for myself can other people see me I can hear you okay I can hear you absolutely weird I'll rejoin after I've spoken um yeah so there were two attempts at this um partly because Eric didn't like what we had and then I talked to him about what he oh no no he left us she shall we even before something else we lost jigori and I think we have Echo if everybody could please uh use a headset if you aren't already I think that will reduce that shall we do something else until he's back yeah so we have a title change and then we also have a pretty substantial pull request the one at the very bottom right Transport Services System architecture and I think that is all architecture changes so I imagine it goes with the title change yeah that goes with it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:04",
    "text": "but shall we do something else until gory is back because I think these are both for him to discuss okay so the other thing that I'm seeing mark this discuss is security by default which happens to be yours so if you want to summarize that for us yeah I think I have a few that should be pretty easier maybe this is the one I don't know security buddy oh no it's not actually it's marked as ish as an issue to discuss sorry uh okay there might not be a PR associated with it uh I don't know we can take a look at that now gory are you are you back okay sorry for the back and forth here no problem thoughts I did okay so what can you hear me still yes excellent and I don't hear myself this time so that's really better okay so I don't know where you got to um I I propose the title change I think people should accept it it's kind of independent of the rest of the issues in my opinion if we want to go for it we can go for it okay sorry what's the motivation for this particular title change gory can you summarize Chris please okay so the motivation for the title change is Erica search that an architecture document is purely a description of a plan it's not actually a specification that the ietf needs to have um requirements again if we add the word requirements in the title then he's totally happy with the document as it stands using requirements language I didn't see a difference really between the two because I think architecture does have requirements but um this thought was held by others on the iesg"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "call along with other opinions but at least this opinion was held that an architecture document is a particular type of document in the ietf and this is not one of those documents so I between the two different options I I think I do definitely prefer this one um I think the only issue I see here is it doesn't quite saying an architecture and requirements sounds a bit awkward um so I don't know if we can just change it to be maybe like architecture and requirements and so you just drop the and um yep I'm pretty sure does not care about whether we start with the on or nothing great so I will suggest that okay say it again uh you just want to remove the the n in the beginning yep yes because it seems weird to have yeah that's okay then I just yeah okay okay sorry for that I'll just do that no you're good you're good uh yeah refresh all right perfect so shall we okay shall I commit shall we merge good for me yeah that's good I mean I think the ASG I think wins yes but uh if this is all we need to locate them sure go ahead don't comment the board as well but I'm not even going second attempt as a title change this one okay then I'll kill the other one as well and then Corey okay what does that mean"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "for does that have any implication for your larger PR of 1288 or no yes okay so it has a small implication and I I I took Eric's comments and actually pondered on them and I realized I thought we had the I the wording rather sloppy so I tried to revise the text to separate out the word Transport Services system which we already used Transport Services architecture and transport services implementation so I think this is good for a review by Tommy if he wants to do it I did make changes after you said that you thought architecture was a better word by reverting some so I see does that answer you Tommy or do you want to say more the new title this is this PR still is good to go I think it is but I would love you to read it because it's try to read into what we mean by these different terms and we were using them rather in many different ways so I was just trying to use them in the ways I last heard Tommy that's you use them okay I mean yeah I I can do it in the past on this though um I'll take more time than what you want to wait for me to do right now yeah sure but but then it's done but it might be a bit tricky to merge sorry because we've added citizens sorry okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "what's next yeah that's a good one to discuss uh so unfortunately um Philip can't join us today but he sent me an email um about this topic and he says and I'm quoting I have somewhat of a tendency to say yes we should create one but I guess the decision should be made on the usefulness of a registry for the user slash consumer of the API and would love to see that argument discussed even if I cannot be present so we're talking about the usefulness of a registry for the user slash consumer of the API and um I support what Phil has done and I I like it I think we should seriously think about a registry for the ietf part and we need to separate the two areas by using an underscore or some other character to delimit them because that's this makes it so much easier to add new rfcs in the future when Taps is really successful I let's care less about the vendor specific space I think that can be left to the vendors if we wish to which I think is what is captured so I'm happy with the current text thank you foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:14",
    "text": "what's the impact of adding a registry later sorry Corey okay I mean can we can we punt on this I like that uh that approach that I don't know what the cost is yep I think the person who would use it would be the ITF when they published new rfcs and that new RFC can create this registry equally the most important thing is that we separate out the space and we kind of say this is possible I mean whether we make the registry or not I don't care yeah I would be I would prefer to keep the some of the other texts we sent a couple of sentences we added and just make it non-normative as descriptive so just talk about it and that's probably it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:13",
    "text": "zahid has his hand up so yeah so I mean I think I understand the philosophy the third process behind this phase three but can can you summarize that one just to level level up the discussion a bit uh like it was not really something that has been there from the ancient time but it recently started thought about life having your history can can we just for the record I mean just to everybody on the same page can you have that summary of like what exactly why exactly we need another history Corey I think it's important that we separate out the ietf space from the non-its space so the ietf can in future Define new rfcs that add things to what we have written in the tax specification so the first comment here came I don't remember from who somewhere how do we do this kind of thing and the suggestion was we create a registering and I like that but then the real point was separating out the vendor area from the non-vendor area so if we create namespaces that start underscore as being vendor specific then the ITF has all the ones that don't start with an underscore already and at that point basically the ITF can define a registry"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "or not for its own part of this world I think the discussion went what do we put in this registry and we thought we put lots of protocols but in the end we decided Well we don't need to put lots of protocols in here so things became a little bit simpler I think the root problem was simply the underscore which probably was a really good call to have I don't know who came up with that but it was a good thing to have that so I don't know more to this discussion than what I've said so I'll let someone else add in more if they have more all right foreign collection as well that we've brought up that possibility in the past and then we always punted on it saying oh we could add it if it's necessary in the future yeah I also remember that are you okay with what I wrote here I think that reflects what we've said right we're requesting him to change some sentences to be non-normative and keep the text with the underscore but not add a registry yet Michael can you um can you say a register you can be created by a future RFC just to be um specific on what you mean an announced sentence"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "trying to capture what uh gory he said that makes makes sentences is not normal to just talk about it but we can be clearer I think it is probably these must shoot these things right I mean why is it even non-normative yeah actually this is what Corey said I don't know why yeah I think it should be actually normally if you're thinking with this following our problem the only thing I wanted to change was the second part of 588 um I'm registered should be specified yeah so that one this should know that that should is okay but it's got two parts to it apart before and and a part after the and the part at the end is not covered by the should and yeah ah [Music] and ought to be registered no and can be registered can be um oh yeah there is no registry yeah like this click yep you know what I'll I'll leave it I I don't want to drive and make suggestions at the same time yeah that's perfect okay but I'll leave that okay uh command I think that command probably reflects what we're saying so okay yeah yeah yeah okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "then we can go to the next um yeah endpoints and endpoint identifiers is very boring to talk about uh maybe so if somebody else will take a look simply maybe we can just leave it as a request that people take a closer look at this because I saw that one of the issues was labeled discuss and this PR is not labeled discuss no I'm not sure if there's like substantial need for I remember had um input on security so maybe yeah uh secured no no that was an issue and titled security by default uh did I I didn't imagine it right it must be here it is but this discussed label I mean I you know I may have not fully reliably put it everywhere I just put it in some place oh okay gave me the feeling that we should probably discuss it but it doesn't hurt uh what was that oh yeah um we have one person saying it's out of scope and Brian saying that the statement it is recommended that the transport service implementation makes use of specialized security privacy features of the underlying protocol is okay to have that's just this I think it's not a very big deal is that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "there is this sentence here right it is recommended that the default values are selected to ensure correctness and the question is whether we should also say something about security like this like makes use of specialized security features I felt that when you start saying something like that it's so vague that it doesn't really help anyway and I think gory agreed with that and Brian I think was okay with the vagueness so I don't know we do something vague or we'd close this architecture three one so context is that we had a review by Roman who who suggested this change but it doesn't say if it was a discuss actually no no it wasn't oh okay that's discuss oh I get it that is cost label ah no I don't think it is no no it isn't no yeah that I'm sorry that was that was my bad I'm gonna take out the discuss level you know what um uh I I had a misunderstanding about the discuss label the things that did do have a discuss in the from the isg uh this is where I invented this stupid newer label where it says review must reply all these things are things that are part of the discuss of the isg review I'm sorry because we use this discuss label in the past just for stuff that I thought should be discussed but this is the most this is the important stuff yeah okay so if the security thing also Paul has his hand wrap I want to give Paul a chance to speak yes I just wanted to clarify what I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "Roman means to say there is that the it's a set of recommendation is to have the defaults as widely uh applicable as possible but he's sort of missing the ER but we don't want to have that to be an insecure widely you know uh Deployable set so I think you just want a little bit of focus on that you mean like while you know a wide set of applications but they still have secure defaults on it so I think that's what this comment is foreign could this also be things like do you need a particular Cipher Suite"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:07",
    "text": "all right well if that's the case then I think just clarifying to Roman and saying what you just said could be enough I need to wouldn't need any additional text but so this is not a blocking discuss point there but this is a rather like his comment on this one so basically we need to address it or clarify what it means okay yeah so we can look at um there was one or two more red discusses that I should take out that is just how we used to have it yeah that also this discusses they're not IST discusses okay so thanks for uh sorry for that no it's okay you you did label but we must reply to so maybe let's start with those now yeah let me started our actual ASG blocking discuss this right uh you want to take them from the first page here or I don't have a strong opinion I must I'm not sure of the open pull requests is still uh change that has substantial um you kind of said the endpoint thing wasn't something that we needed to talk about right here yeah I think for the Empire I would just like to make a request for for other people also to to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "take a look at it um it's just a very long pull request okay because we use interchangeably uh endpoint to mean the thing that sends and receives something but also sometimes uh the Tuple of an IP address of the port for example um so this is able to clarify that and it's not in all instances so trivial it's just very long and a bit annoying to do a a lot of this seems to be Capital just capitalization change right uh that's the odd one so for Arch I I just fixed the capitalization but everything in API and implementation is different than that because see some cases are not so so trivial like for instance when you talk about racing basically you do have a list of input identifiers that you care about but then the text says we're sending something to these as we raise right then you're sending to the endpoint to which Phil said I would rather call it important identify a candidate or endpoint candidate I don't remember so this is just nitpicking about wording and it's good for somebody else to also take a look at it but it's not uh a super complicated thing really well because it's not an identified a defined term well but I think just because we have a defined ah I did"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:05",
    "text": "yeah yeah yes yes I get that right I agree with that that will be good and as you do it as you look at it maybe also take a look at that you know what what kind of thing it is is to defer sorry my inclination is deferred to a professional editor on these matters yeah I think uh yeah these other things also I think not major issues I mean there are much harder things to discuss among the issues in my opinion okay and let's go there I would maybe we can look at this uh review must reply labeled so okay maybe this yeah okay that one uh I don't get it at all we have that comment about this document is section three places listen as a pre-connection and then also we have another command that says security parameter primarily especially with the pre-connection object that wouldn't they equally apply to the listener but I don't get either of these because I mean we call listen on the pre-connection and then you have a listener that obviously inherits the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "problem the properties of the pre-connection and test that so to me that's clear and I don't see where the document places listen as a pre-connection I just don't see that so for one it seems to put the listener in the pre-connection group and then the other it seems to put the listener in the connection group like they seem to be inconsistent about whether they were like what a listener is a separate group or not where do you see that in the document I I didn't I couldn't find this so this is about our API um in section three I I just couldn't see that so at some point it talks about the listener as part of the um connection or pre-connection group and on any other document it treats it as a separate thing as in like these three art at an equal level different so because in section three is it an architecture that teaches different or implementation this is the first place so in section three I don't even see architecture you mean because it was an API review I think I double checked even oh I can take a look at Arch start here three"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:06",
    "text": "I see that you call listen on the pre-connection it becomes a listener it's been a while since I reviewed this I'd have to look up the exection myself but um one document has three categories and the other document s categories okay now the issue was purely degrouping it was not about any of the functionality it's okay I'll I'll find the the text that I found inconsistent and I'll send a message to the list that would be really nice because I I tried to find this I couldn't I didn't get it okay but then we go on to the next I guess uh yeah this command source"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:21",
    "text": "is the LPN mentioned okay yeah it's the AL piano transport thing or something for the application running over the transport the aesthetic yeah okay so if you need it for this yeah okay well it sounds like we need it foreign makes sense for some transposed story I suppose we write it as this as a hint for the alpn to use for transports that supported that yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:07",
    "text": "that makes sense to me is this explicitly security related OPM was more General it's part of TLS so it's here okay so you can see this the evening quick it's it's security related okay who do I assign Ed to me Q uh uh Army yeah uh I I don't know anyone foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:10",
    "text": "so I hear you type so okay see okay oh that's even more valuable uh okay what was the phrasing choosing the the protocol uh the end point does not choose the protocol right that's what we mean directly I mean are there cases where there's a semantic difference where somebody would have an uh a difference between the service running on TCP versus the one running on UDP such that there could be a policy reason to connect to one over the other and then can't you actually just force it I thought so I thought we have it that you can choose it if you must yeah okay I hope we do we did yeah I guess I'm just wondering whether it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:18",
    "text": "yeah fair enough okay host name versus fully qualified domain name can with host name be unqualified if not can the call with hostname be renamed to I uh so um my comment I would have thought yeah I mean there's no way of requiring it to be fully qualified but yeah before this would qualified as already before calling this part but it comes from the application the same way the calling get host by name or whatever would [Music] yeah right but what about the idea of renaming it with fqdn we could saw the beautiful name but not necessarily an fqdn all right so so yeah my concern was that you can pass"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "an unqualified hostname and that um part of this architecture or protocol assume that it's a fully qualified domain host name and treat it as such and that there's some a big ambiguity that could happen like I'm not so much worried about the name more that like people understand whether or not this function can take a non-qualified hostname so should we just clarify that this is supposed to get a fully qualified domain name it sounds like part of the clarification for the implementation document you know to say you know to be clear that this that while we would like this to be fully qualified it can't be and if there are things that require it yeah in the implementation draft to to me it sounded more like like we would like to get some error like if somebody sends some unqualified name things will not work and then then what then is the app system should"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "reply with something that hey don't us or something like that yeah definitely more of it with DDD where they're trying to sort of do configurations about your resolver and your domain name as well so like sometimes you get search domains that you're not aware of remember that that's fine with me if you put some some text like that in then then it's clear to me cool okay add the command and it's another one that I'm assigning to tell me I hope that's okay hey uh uh Michael let me just pause here for a second are we do we need to do a quick triage on this I'm concerned about the length of the list and want to make sure that um we focus on the items that are going to get the best benefit of the group discussion um I I don't know if you're already doing that but uh um you know these seem like pretty rapid convergence sorry go ahead tell me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "I mean these all the the orange ones they're all these cost blocking comments that's the orange label I'm sorry are there are there any that concern you about getting a uh a discussion going on the response that we should maybe try to tackle first because well it seems like so far we haven't had much in the way of uh um disagreement and just want to make sure that we get our disagreements out early so we can sort through them so I I mean there are quite many where I felt that I couldn't address them I've been trying to address whatever I can easily address but these were things like nits and so forth pretty easy ones there comes some rather tough ones from from last so like harder tool yeah yeah um so we do one of those these are the orange as well uh I'm I'm basically uh pushing this out to the team as a proposal um uh I thought that you know yeah I thought some of the largest comments were well I don't know you have to get to this the specifics like his commentary uh was uh somewhat uh tough but um maybe the specific issues that he wanted responses to were not so much but um we don't have to respond to this commentary yeah I mean I I don't know what what to do with it it's a problem right we have we just have too many issues for this for the time that we have today I I don't know what to do you tell me I'm driving you click click yeah somebody tell me that's quite a lot unless somebody objects let's go to lars's issues and uh and see if there's stuff there um okay so again maybe we're gonna have to where it begins orange this is probably"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "put it in the name but losses begin right this is from last and I think just a buff is another one oh no it's also that's the command part anyway but these orange ones here these are the these are the the discuss parts from last so probably should begin with those um Michael can I just check are these actual iesg discusses because I thought he stepped back in the meeting and didn't raise a discuss are you sure they are of course items I mean I I think we should just resolve them anyway but we should probably determine whether they're actually blocking publication or not he put a statement somewhere saying he wants to differ from the document yeah well that's okay he just doesn't he he we don't need his vote to progress I mean we won't we won't have the conversation for sure but so so just just let me fill in uh I don't think Lars has any discuss on any of the that document but he did mention in his comment like okay I'm gonna abstain because he doesn't perhaps unders understand how this makes things implementable so that was his main kind of feedback and then I think in during the discussion meeting I think Gary you me and Martin kind of like pushed back on those things like how because one of the his his main chemical point was like hey can I text just one tap system implementation and put it in like took it from Linux and put it in Windows or or somewhere else any any anywhere and we said like hey yeah definitely the basic Norms of like Taps API doesn't change but obviously you need to do some implementation thing because there is no like common framework for how to write software in different operator system so that that was one of the main concern he"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "pushback he had but yeah but I as I said in my mail to all of you like saying like I I would like to have us have proper feedback to his comments so that at least we are happy that we did our part yeah then it's up to him to decide like whether he wants to defer or like yes or abstain or what okay I get that thanks so I think okay yeah yeah so he has number of points that discussed on API document yes right let's do this exactly so maybe the one that we're looking at right now is the most important one because he put that specific text under this cast and then later in the comment he wrote that he thinks he wants to abstain from the document because of the complicated uh interactions between properties like that that can be very complex interactions that on and and he's not convinced that these interactions are all fully covered given that we don't have so many implementations that's how I read this and and this is the one example that he has in his text were I don't honestly see the big complication like in this particular example it would just fail right you have an uh connection that's not reliable and then you say this message ought to be reliable well then you know it's just not going to work you get a failure back I don't think the big complication here so I I generally fail to see that the problem with the complexity between these properties but that I think that is the one issue like the one thing where he picks out an example that reflects this so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "my opinion you get just you just get an error if you try right do we need to add a simple sentence there that because we say if the message property contradicts the connection property and if the per message Behavior can be supported it overrides we needed uh yeah okay yeah like I've also wrote here but maybe after the paragraph which will just put the case so yeah that's that's what I wrote the opposite case right if it doesn't work put we all then it would lead to a failure exactly we just need to say that I think yeah and ideally point out the specific foreign right I I wonder if there's a general thing we can add that says that even writing with per message properties is useful for removing functionality but if you're trying to use it to add functionality it makes fail if you've got something which is reliable you can make it unreliable but you can and you say different if if your connection is reliable and you say want something unreliable it's always going to work it just may give you more than you need if you try if you if you try and add something if you try and add reliability it's not going to so you can maybe write that more generally that sounds a bit scary I mean I if I'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "yeah if I'm trying to be lost I would say Define adding or Define functionality like you know how would it be you add functionality when it's reliable and you don't add functionality when it's unreliable maybe you can find a case where you choose a or b and each is functionality thank you okay I'll assign that to you and hope for the best anyway I think it is probably ought to be done by somebody with with a big implementation because that was his concern okay let's take the next uh in this list here um oh yeah schedule a property I'll begin opening it probably a bit better that way uh I haven't I already put the pr no I'll yeah I made it I made a PR that tries to address that this I think is simple he's just asking what is the schedule is scheduling is it related to connection Pro problem priority so my proposal is to say yes and this is the pr that goes with it to a portion the available capacity according to connection priorities is this okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:09",
    "text": "hello people Michael or is it also priority and other things it just how we choose amongst the different uh it's a scheduler right so it's gonna portion the capacity whose turn it is when this is just like a scheduler between streams I am not nitpicking on this I like your text fine shall we merges yep why is this gray oh it has conflicts oh my God this is like uh how can that have a conflict this is a tiny piece of text yeah okay uh to be merged after conflict resolution put it like that um we can take a look at the next uh complex interaction between broad properties okay but I think then this statement was in the discuss part so that's already the end of the uh ah okay so I split it okay I split it here so there is a part in the discuss path and the path in the command part right where it says it defines a bold load of different properties many of which are interacting with each other and then the statement in the comments I I felt this is related to the example that we just discussed but future interactions are undefined"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "how can a programmer make informed choices yeah I mean I was going to say the same thing surely the answer is well yes but so does the current apis yeah I think the alternative as last season is that is to make the document experimental I think that's the message here well they are already aren't they yeah well I mean we should probably craft an answer here this is interesting this is proposed I mean surely the answer here is yes and then we made made it clear like there are implementations um and a neat project and I think Apple sells some sort of like reflected thing uh what's happening in the tabs so I think that was the pushback and my my personal opinion here is like I mean is the only document I I think should be on a standard track if any of them so um just answer this question I mean just just just reply what you got this working group think about that one uh regarding and then we'll take the discussion with Lush because anyway he he might actually outstand but that's that's that should be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "addition and in the future okay laughs well that's easy sit around for long enough for those Ambitions to exist and then we'll know how to define them I mean isn't that the same thing right I mean you know if we stick with BSD sockets we have the same problem if we keep defining more and more Complex Transport protocols there's more and more right feature interactions and I mean other than saying to the ITF only designed simple transport protocols and good luck with that model requirement on uh architecture I want people from um I didn't catch that I mean I'm just trying to write what people say here I don't know Michael since Taps is often laid on top of the BSD sockets it inherits this problem in some respects I mean the PSD sockets API is has many of these strange inconsistencies in and it's going to be better here but it's not fixed is this I'm not okay what am I supposed to do just writing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "some text right we have also implementation of tab systems available future interactions of future protocols also unclear in the BSD sockets API Taps is laid on BSD sockets and inherits it's problems yeah okay okay I don't know good words to sit to put this in writing either we can either do it or not second okay I'll click command these are now the commands that we have you know anybody who wants to edit that up put more text go ahead oh Michael before going going for just just yeah I don't know like where uh during the discussion or summary in his comments rash says like I mean if we have a lot of like thank you this campus is supposed to solve the socket problems and selection of like what protocols and all those things so if it's not solving then what it is doing so I think the last comment that we're writing we might fall into this kind of business just just like so I mean if you inheritance so what are you solving so I can take the last"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "sentence out saying something like that can take that out yeah it makes it much better perhaps foreign I suspect we're gonna have to if we want to make a considered response to laws we're going to have to open a document in GitHub or something and just work out what that product is because this applies to many of the things he's raised and I mean maybe Tommy's point that basically there is a fairly comprehensive implementation of this as well as a number of other attempts to implement it so this is not worse than what we have it's better than that and we just need to catch this I think that'll be my take that is true that's a really great point wants to uh two properties or options"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:36",
    "text": "yeah let's say the last one again the intent is for future protocol specific options to also be categorized that way yeah in our prior rfcs teasers to believe that we have chosen a working subset work yeah workable ah like that I mean at least with the text basis we can always edit it and change I mean feel free to edit my text here just trying to capture what we say here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "but this is good I think I mean somehow we have an argument and that we're a bit cleaner you know the socket API has across multiple protocols the same kinds of generic things and different names in different ways and we're categorizing and cleaning things up a little bit so it's cleaner yeah quite a bit I mean if specifically looking at socket options like which ones you can set when at what point the socket is alive and for which protocol yeah like you you have to know in some cases like where you are in mid-negotiation certainly cleaner in the Zero artity part I want to write the old Cort called with uh BSD sockets just for the fun of it that's just completely crazy I mean you have this datagram socket that you use to uh where you do a send tool as a way of creating a TCP connection it's really awkward anyway um let's take the next with product called TCP TLS in an example here why does the remote specify definition not contain with protocol clause for tcpt TLS and what would that look like I think it's the same yeah but we have an example here right quick remote specifier with protocol quick we're not supposed to do that but we have it so the contradicts also this other thing we discussed doesn't it ah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "okay okay but I think that still doesn't answer other protocol combinations that maybe one may want to specify yeah yeah but I think the concern is about you know I think there's also another part of his review somewhere where he's saying where does this come from like where is the list of names that we can pick here yeah it's not necessarily obvious in in those two cases like what the default for the top one should be like how why why is it just because we've decided based on on the port that we're going to do HTTP or quick or whatever yeah um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:11",
    "text": "okay regarding uh why does it not contain one the first is the default right and uh the quick part is to Define well defines an exception for one specific protocol but how well what would that look like that's the yeah I mean that's the question so we need to add the list somewhere I think of pro valid protocol combinations to give and that connects us to this whole discussion of the registry and all that so if I remember correctly yeah if I remember correctly we talked about how to choose a specific protocol with tabs because a few people were asking for it and that was years ago and we said okay I guess we're not going to prohibit that if people really need to choose one particular protocol but we're not gonna specify how to do it because it's something we want to discourage fantastic anybody else remember that yeah I think so I think I remember that as you say sorry yeah I remember but um I remember also be contentious about whether you don't or you do because people talked about specific applications which had to be run and whether those could just run in Taps by"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "specifying what they need at the moment in a sort of legacy mode hmm yeah I mean I don't think we don't think we can really require people not to say which transport they're going to use if someone's got an sctp app and it really wants to use sttp because that's what they know their server runs and that's that's kind of what they built um they should still be able to use Taps and then in the future they could transition away to doing that later but maybe I'm maybe I'm out on one edge of the um consensus I'll let other people talk I mean I mean of course what's good about not not putting a list of protocols that are well not not specifying how to choose the protocols is that we don't have this naming problem and we don't have to specify a list and we don't have to have a registry for it um that's a that's just a practical concern that this is an easy way out as well but we we didn't want to uh recommend that sort of usage in the first place and I I agree like if we specify it we invite they used that we didn't really want so well and I think I think getting back even to the last PR that's that's sort of one of the other advantages that our PR issue uh one of the other advantages that that Taps has is that you don't necessarily need to spell everything out you know a hundred percent like people who are writing uh Network enabled software which is you know pretty much all software uh don't want to have to spell everything out and and a lot of issues that people have uh writing software have to do with spelling everything out so I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:02",
    "text": "I think I think it makes a lot of sense I I like you know on the one hand I like the fact that we have all of these uh defaults on the other hand and I guess this gets back to um uh sort of the the discussion around observability and policy is is what I don't like is that it's not necessarily discoverable um I don't think that it has to be defined here but it should be possible for somebody to discover what yeah like what happens when I when I instantiate uh you know this this pre-connection or or whatever yeah I I put a PR in response to that request I don't know if it was your request but I I put a PR in response to that and uh for the an arc that in our architecture document that should be a paragraph that just makes it slightly stronger stronger statement saying we really should be offering a monitoring facility so that people can see what's going on yeah I saw that but we don't Define it a couple hours ago okay uh what did I want to write here don't want to specify how to do it hmm yeah so is that the consensus that we just make a PR that makes it a bit clearer that with protocol doesn't exist because we actually don't recommend even offering this but if people must but then isn't that example should we have that example should it should we do away with that example"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "I don't like that the the consensus you're drawing on this one you don't like the consensus what no I I don't agree with the direction that that's going okay I agree with the first half I don't want people I don't want people designed applications this way but I don't think you can prevent people from designing applications this way until they've um been through school and learned how to do it better so I think we ought to be we ought to Define it even if it comes up every time with a warning saying using Legacy method or something okay I don't maybe tell me if you mean for the case where you said it on the primary one because I think setting an override um for okay this particular protocol uses a different port like that well then we need to fully specify how to do it and we need a list of protocol of valid protocol names and combinations which is okay we can do that okay then maybe we need to be allow doing it to over it uh under the default foreign list currently I mean it could be more but uh well the main set list of protocols doesn't look at protocol combinations like TR tcpt TLS and so on I think yeah right and that's where yeah and this is okay I grown because this is where we got to with having um system properties and all sorts of things and yup um it's big"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:06",
    "text": "so do do do we really need that specification as well in other parts of the documents we note that different systems have different policies in in some respect like this is this is yeah I know in in some respects this is like what what what exists in your Etsy services that's how somebody might implement this kind of thing as far as what defaults to choose so is it possible to defer that list elsewhere while hey I have an idea of it I have an idea because there was also another one from Laos saying how would uh like whatever tools and interface and he's asking where does this where does this list of names of interfaces come from how do people know what interfaces exist on the on the host why don't we uh invent that's primitive that that let us query you know just the Primitive that says this gives you the list of available interfaces and this one this gives you the list of available protocols and then from that one you choose"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:05",
    "text": "foreign so let's let's stick with protocols for now I mean for that one Michael we could have a query that asked for protocols Michael yeah I'm not against this but I do notice that Martin um put a comment in the chat about the registry thing and maybe would like to speak on that since he was in the iesg meeting and he's about to leave the meeting yeah exactly the meeting is going on so we could I'll put it here as a maybe we should have a A Primitive to query for available protocols so the interface question is separate from that go away from this okay then we can you know offline take a look I mean so uh right Martin wanted to talk to talk about which one if I dropped up for 30. for me go ahead Martin was there a question for me yeah so I don't see the chat oh um yeah about the registry thing like Tommy seemed like really resistant to having one I'm wondering like what costs you're seeing that I'm not seeing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:11",
    "text": "okay foreign I get the way this would the way this would work is that we have this like this spec would just have PCP but no registry and then we decided to have if we added like a quick one that had properties then we'd have to like update this to then require these limitations to check the register you know respect the registry rather just have single Reserve names I don't think it's the end of the world it's a little messy but I I sympathize with the idea that like this may not matter so uh it's not a discuss it's not a big deal I you know it seems reasonable to me so it's okay maybe not what I would do aesthetically but not a big deal thanks okay what do we do go back to this list yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:03",
    "text": "um Okay so don't need to wait Protocols are available enumerating you mean writing a static list in the document right you don't need to yeah yeah I get it right so we can put a statement saying that the documentation of a transport services implementation should provide the list huh yeah the API documentation we can really make a recommendation like that of Transport Services System should well must contain no should because we don't have we don't have to specify should contain a list of of choosable protocols"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:04",
    "text": "and protocol combinations okay that's good and then we get to the next which is similar in style I think we have it here anyway this usage of protocol identifiers that's probably the same thing this is the first and only time protocol identifiers are used whether they Define to be yeah so we can that is related right it's a string and the string is based on the list that is the documentation of the API it could be a number or whatever yeah yeah uh so this is just yeah I can uh I can try I can try making a text here just for the fun of it foreign so Michael I think this is one of the areas where Lars kind of drilled into well basically your spec says anything and if I re I move my chord to another system then I just need to redo everything ah and I kind of get it but I also kind of get Tommy so I don't know where we lie between the two extremes of having well-known strings here that can be put into the string matching algorithm and get you well done yeah I think having things portable across tap systems is not going to be it's going to be an illusion anyway right it's an illusion but it's not a complete illusion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:29",
    "text": "foreign we shouldn't create artificial barriers for this party between different systems but there's always going to be things that have to be fixed up but kind of what we said on the iesg call I as I recall it was well yeah it's much easier with tax because at least you have a common framework between the two systems and you do have to match everything again okay well I'm not even saying that so that we don't kind of steer in totally the wrong direction I think I personally think strings are nice do other people think we should have numbers okay that's your strengths that's okay uh um I'm always ending up here yeah we go to the next one how do we learn about available interface names so I get that this is more Dynamic but there's got to be a way to do it because we specify for instance the string e and zero right so we we talked about this in 865 um that was that was an issue that I raised like a year ago or two um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "so if if we want to do some archeology we can look at that issue uh look at what was that something 65 number eight six five eight six five well yeah that's correct what is that PCP of what okay okay eight six five all right doesn't even okay it is okay shall we do this now you wanna can do that I don't know if I here for the endpoint object identifiers be discoverable oh yeah right no I kind of sat there it got solved a little bit in terms of like Rendezvous but that wasn't necessarily the context that I was thinking hmm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:08",
    "text": "are they all strings even if it turns out to be numbers no so you should have a primitive together get a list of strings and then you pick a string the the approach of um we suggested in 865 of resolving a pre-connection and that will give you interfaces that match that person seems to give give you the set of things that lifestyle seems a reasonable way of doing it this one fits within the framework it was a pretty connection it creates a pre-connection which has whatever constraints you want and then called resolve on it and it will turn it into a set a set of matching pre-connections and then if you scroll down if you do natural vessel stuff you can pass those to the peer as the the candidates but if you want to use them something else locally then there's nothing stopping yeah that that's uh part of what's written and the be careful with the results of pre-connection.resolve um uh commit and yeah I I agree I like I read I read the sentence and I was like that that makes sense"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "um I also agree with Tommy I mean so so I you know I I work on fuchsia and we have a very different uh way of getting information about interfaces on the system um than anybody else does uh so I I agree that like it doesn't make sense to specify this is how necessarily this is what an interface is uh because it's you know in some cases maybe not even a string okay uh but what do we do I mean I think that the question still still stands right that you can actually write with interface en zero and the question is where does e and zero come from so that that question is not gone we need um and I thought that was pre-connection.resolve D well you mean we already think so we we dealt with this already with with IPv6 scoped addresses because that was the second point that I brought up in issue 864 and that was uh fixed with a comment um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "[Applause] illustrating that scoped addresses were equivalent to using with IPv6 address and with interface together um so I mean yeah the if it devolves into a question of like how do you know what the interfaces are and and there is no there is zero value to specifying us because whatever you know Network framework does is not going to be what what we have in fuchsia and that's not what Android has and that's not what you know Windows has or FreeBSD or so we just put a sentence there saying that there has to be some platform specific API that yields an interface name that can be used for this kind of call I I thought we'd defined the general apis is why I'm confused yeah I thought we'd said that create you create a pre-connection so the results okay so that's that's why I didn't fully catch that you the thing you do for rendezvous you create a pre-connection you resolve it locally so it's not just for rendezvous really right right okay you need to take care because it might the list might change and everything right this should well we have contain information about the available interfaces"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "see and what was that PR it's a 947. F7 stayed somewhere that this is what can be used here I mean probably stated close to this thing because this uh through laza because he didn't guess that he has a name available okay I can give it a try see what happens um okay sorry Colin for not immediately catching that I think you said it before and I didn't fully understand what you had said um this is not just ITF document in the RFC Series this may in fact be an easy one because I think yeah this has been overtaken by events so we just write I opened the issue with label review to remind us that we need to answer but I think we should just say that we have fixed this yeah was resolved tell him so right so I can close that one for now at least like if we look for these things that require an answer then we have it available but um okay oh that was already the end of the discuss part from from last do you want to go on on losses or should we look at look at other reviews we have 10 minutes left on this call uh and I'm wondering I guess we're not getting through all the all the issues including the numbness gas I'm wondering if we have any specific plan of action right now for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:00",
    "text": "the stuff that we did talk about and then also are we gonna have another interim or like what are people's thoughts we have too many people we have far too many people interested in what we did so we have far too many good comments I think we're going to need another interim too um finish them I think we could probably make good progress on many of them and maybe Michael can go faster and just work out uh where the starting point is for others but I suspect we'll need an interim just to finish off I agree with that I mean I have to say that there were far too many comments that I have to say especially in lars's review that made me go oh yes right like for instance bounce on send and receiver where we can discuss that I mean that's uh over what time he asks right how do you find it how do you define a rate very good comment I mean yes probably not hard to solve but it needs some discussion or some agreement there are many like that many things that made me go yes he yeah true we just need to think it through and some may warrant a bit more discussion I think right um so what are people's energy levels because we have an IDF meeting coming up in five weeks so I don't know if we have time for another interim before that or if that's if it's that Origins gory what do you think I don't know I mean I guess have we cleared the discusses on Arch"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:01",
    "text": "because we could pick Eric off he he was very willing to be um picked off as they say uh was there anything else other than Eric on Arch that was a discuss I think it was he was maybe the only one okay well that's good so um if we work on goals we can try and conclude that and then we could try it yeah Eric that's okay um yeah I mean ideally we would meet before the ietf is that even feasible if that's feasible let's look at Diaries if it's not then we have to meet at the ITF which seems strange because we don't have a working group meeting we just need a meeting for the third duration to fix the problems we have right yeah I guess if we decide to have an interim meeting exactly two weeks from now or something it could work but I don't know if we have enough people of Maine and if we go through the whole scheduling thing I don't think we can pull it off before the next ITF meeting foreign yeah I mean the ITF meeting doesn't remove the scheduling thing it just punts it because very soon the ITF schedule fills up and yeah there's no time at the ITF meeting unless we have a working group meeting scheduled in our schedule list it would just get filled so um I mean we can easily meet to clear a particular issue it's it's just uh trying to get through more of them and okay so um I'm going to suggest I could apply some edit Cycles in the next two weeks to try and resolve the things we've made progress on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "what about other people yeah I can do that too but my capabilities are limited I mean there's the things where I feel safe about making changes I mean there are just many commands here that are not so easy to to address yeah and that's my problem because I've already killed off large numbers of issues already because I knew how to do it and these are the kind of the ones I'm less sure about Right Toby have you any Cycles to go through the list and try and drop in answers for the issues so we know which direction to head in because I think the ones that are left are probably the ones that are more near to the people with experience than the understanding of the architecture sure and I I've given some PRS just now but yeah well then then maybe we should try and just schedule a meeting and see if we can get people together I mean we're probably talking yeah I'm saying we're not going to make major decisions at this stage it's like what sort of text we want to say on this kind of marginal thing which is important but it's just on the edge of what what we've been looking at so we could probably just pick a date and see how many people we can get sagari you're suggesting a side meeting and practice that by such a side meeting in Prague or I'm suggesting um interim maybe week starting 23rd if that's feasible does anybody have energy to do something week starting 23 October"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "I do I'm happy to though I don't know how much my opinion matters to admit I don't really have energy on the 23rd and that yes provided after the 25th I can do that because that's 25 is a draft deadline right so are you talking about Monday or you're talking about Tuesday Wednesday Thursday so we probably want to be either a week before or just after that people will be busy submitting drafts yeah not on the draft deadline is what you're saying right can I stop sharing yeah okay maybe if I if I send a doodle for you know Tuesday Wednesday Thursday that week and the week before and then we'll see how many people we could get so we can make progress on that before the meeting for the idea of meeting yeah I mean I think that's reasonable we could even the sign if we decide that it's a non-quaret number we can assign issues to people and write draft text in the tracker I think that that step's useful would it be would it be useful to use some of that time to identify like breakout groups in case the the whole set can't can't be done so people people in a particular domain like enumerate these issues for them or is that basically what you're what you're suggesting that's kind of what I'm suggesting I mean I'm cool I'm hoping that where many of us will be together two weeks later at the ITF meeting and then we have a very clear Focus that like what the heck"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:02",
    "text": "and we can have a discussion but um at the moment we just have too many things which require a little bit of expertise in some of these areas to get through so try and triage them a little bit more try and assign people try and even prepare comments on all these issues and I think that would be a very useful activity okay that sounds right and I think we have a plan thank you folks for sticking with this I'm excited for making progress we're getting closer yeah can I just can I just add a comment from Martin from the chat sure you want us to go through the his comments in the data tracker and see whether we'd address them all and I guess other ads might also have a similar thing I doubt if these people really want to blow by blow account but we might want to try and just somehow feedback then because a lot of people did fairly detailed reviews so Martin asked did we solve everything basically um well he also said he found the relevant issues uh never mind enek a message after that but I think we want to make sure that we actually reply to all of the isg reviews yeah but we might reply to them all like we solved them all rather than immunize them okay okay I'm just feeding it back because Martin sent me an email off yeah yeah yeah are generally just being helpful right I'm going to lower my hand and let you talk raise if you have any more things yeah I'm just I'm just wondering if we need to assign somebody specific to reply to you any particular isg member or how that's going to work when are we declaring success"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:03",
    "text": "Corey yeah I'm happy to reply to Eric with on Arch um thank you Governor so I'll just drop an email around the editors as soon as I think we've solved it all to make sure we've got a thing on the chair of course and when we'll send something off to Eric and see if he's happy to close the discus as he has on that the other ones are a bit more tricky and I guess yes we just have a plan that continues to work away against those okay okay yeah that's it all right folks we're at time uh thank you all and I'll see you hopefully in a few weeks okay thank you very much bye bye foreign"
  }
]
