[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "hey Karen can you hear me I hope so can anyone hear me Jazz chest hello yep okay uh Hey Bremen yeah um yeah let me turn up the volume okay okay new new Tool uh yeah I hope this is worth moving to is there is there a reason other than just um they have it and they want to use it for this uh processing like it's integrated like if we take the meeting minutes with the also with the tool so there's an icon at the top note-taking tool then um those get automatically imported and archived and everything so like it's a kind of a tool thing okay yeah I always always from session to session I forget uh one aspect of the tool and then yeah okay all right see you again I I don't I can't seem to um there's oh okay there's my video all right okay it seems to be working yep perfect yeah foreign okay yeah we should give folks a few minutes until they figure out on like yeah I hope everyone has seen my email"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "did did you guys see my email yeah yeah but it always takes a little bit of time to get used to everything hey carsten hey dick yeah the um one thing I noted honest is that the the um what is it ICS the if you go to the if you go to data tracker and then you choose to add the meeting using the ICS um it doesn't include a link to the meeting in it it has the agenda and session notes or session materials but I've got a link to their meeting yeah I included the uh the link to the meeting in the agenda uh for that reason yeah yeah yeah maybe that's also a hiccup uh I don't know yeah I found that uh harnesses our link was fine I think it was John's link that brought me to uh something that didn't look very helpful but the other thing too guys is there a chat feature here I don't see a chat feature yeah yeah there is uh it's on like if we in on the left side of the screen uh do you see the sort of a bunch of people I can type of thing and then there's uh uh sort of two bubbles that's supposed to indicate the chat panel yeah they're they're red so just underneath where you share your audio and video yeah yeah exactly to rent Bubbles and an exclamation point yeah if you hover over it it says check panel yeah I see it is so it's either you either see the chat or the participants thank you yeah cool Hank is showing up as well no it's offline oh it happened"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:07",
    "text": "yeah yes I okay did you log into the me the note taking tool already no I haven't okay Hank can you bring it now notepad open notepad for this session okay all right so we can do things like add participants or do we need to do that is that captured when we um [Music] good question um I think Hank do you know are they are the participants captured automatically um hi this is Hank as far as I know yes okay so um I I I can't remember scheduling a meat Echo interim before I I think the last time I did of us is WebEx so I I wouldn't be entirely sure I'm screencapping the attendee list just in case okay um uh when we um like start in a in a minute uh um what is how do you prefer to to do this um are you planning to basically show the VR and explain us on what's going on he's there or how do we do that yeah you were asking for slides and I um both on vacation and totally booked for today as I'm working for six hours already maybe maybe slides are not the right uh way to talk about the pr"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "um because then we have to copy obviously text into the slide but um we could as well just just look at the the Beyond exactly so I think that's the fine thing to do um screen sharing the pr yeah and then we can go through that we try to give you the presenter right no no I can't share uh I'm on a tablet no uh then I could try to share screen actually yes yes okay um good [Music] um sorry sorry try it again another try foreign yeah uh maybe I need to switch to presentation View um okay I'll copy the link uh into the chat window so everyone knows what we are talking about sorry about this uh you know we will get there eventually yeah thank you I saw the link that um the dick sent that was to the hack MD yeah so this is the this is the Beyond um and this was in the agenda so I sent uh maybe I can I can uh first of all uh since we now most of us managed to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "actually get here in the meanwhile uh and I see there's still some problems uh um it will be better next time um I would like to welcome you to this uh session of um now called intra meeting of the skit working group and we specifically want to talk about the the use case uh document the pr that Hank and yogish have been working on um actually as usual this uh official IDF meeting and there's actually the recording running and uh there will be meeting minutes posted and all the good stuff and so um all the uh the rules and the procedures of the IDF including the Northwest uh apply to this meeting so just keep that in mind um and now if we um if we go to that link and and now we keep trying to make sure that this is somehow displays some in some way um um I will let Hank talk a little bit about what um what's happening with this BR and and uh like what are the open issues what can be improve um or whether anyone has any questions on on this PR thanks okay uh thank you harness so uh yeah I took a little bit over the reins here for this document as yoga just PTO until the beginning of next year and so um yeah via had a relatively um young refactoring of the whole document which yogish basically rewrote uh from scratch including uh two exemplary use cases in detail these are called firmware delivery to a large set of constrained OT devices and the other one was called up I don't know that's me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "um often no it's also not correct I'm I'm looking at the different probably I can't see the other headings so I'm sorry for that so but there are two use cases from yogesh basically structured into a general generic overview then into a um leading into uh the actual use case and then a problem uh summary why the problem summary was a list of pallets items always so I tried to adhere to that structure but it was very difficult for me to um formulate additional use cases in that structure so uh I was not waiting for uh my time that I scheduled this dick to uh reward or rephrase this is um our use case about the trust one the image to the email list but try to get other use cases too in order to get an understanding how to phrase them and how to mostly adhere to yogish um template so my the results were two other use cases one is called updated statements over time and the uh statement literally means statement as uh used in the um in the uh um now come on skid architecture I think we had this rewarding of statement sign statement and transparent statement so uh these these these initial things that are signed in a claim uh they are now basically changing over time how would we deal with that that's the first one and the second one is um about uh promoting um software so if you're not the uh if the original um place you are you're not not getting software from the original place but but from a from a packager or from another website in the internet how how can you make sure that this is actually the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "thing you want to have so that's that's the second use case and this this starts with very Layman's words and limits remember it's a description with single sentences that actually go through a process of things happening uh as uh not deliberately not using um architecture language or terminology but layman's terms and um and then highlight how this works so um it really would help if you could look at the um or Insurance maybe trying that is if you could look at uh the document itself because otherwise it will start to explain what what was written there but uh these two examples helped me to find a pattern uh first of all these uh selection have been done by me they are not reviewed by others or were not reviewed by others before I think uh meanwhile they uh experience some review from others um especially uh Brian I think made a whole food but also others chimed in here and made small uh uh fixes to text so it's red by a few uh um stakeholders I assume um and and and then creating a feeling for how this could work uh dick and I took his use case and took an important part of it which is called the trust fund and made a very concise and crisp use case definition here as a very first use case in the pr now so now as a result there are three uh relatively small uh name and terms use cases that uh illustrate a specific um what does the customer want so what they're sorry the consumer wants and uh why is standardization needed for this so I think that's that's pretty straight or forward for me and and maybe uh when yogas comes back we can find a compromise between the two styles that now exist because the three first ones are different styles uh but similar to yogish's one and we can find a common group but I think the content is for these uh five use cases is there now and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "we have to agree on how to actually mold it and phrase or massage it so they look comparable because I broke uh interoperability here sorry I introduced a new format but I really tried to use the obvious one it was a tad bit hard for me to be honest so yeah that's this current stage from my point of view um maybe dick can a little bit elaborate on um on what he thinks or how well this worked out and if you have never used leakage before uh below your name on the top uh there's a there's a hand that is a strikethrough if you unstrike your hands so to speak you are in the queue and there's a microphone on the very right you have to also uh get that activated uh next to the camera icon such and then you can uh and then your Audible whatever okay actually now we can see here and screen so uh the the screen to what uh Hank has been talking about uh so fantastic sorry uh dick go ahead oh thank you honest and and thank you very much to Hank Hank I think you captured this very concisely and and you said crisply and it is really one of the biggest problems we have today in the software supply chain is determining the trustworthiness and the trust bond between a supplier an assigner and this is especially a problem when a user goes out and just downloads a package from the internet they really have no way of knowing if the trust bond exists so having the functionality that you described in that use case would go a long way to solving that problem so well done sir thank you that's great to hear um Hank uh the uh firmware use case that's India is that the one from Monty or maybe you've mentioned it but um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "because a little further below there's um I don't think so I think that is from yogesh uh I think that's original content uh from that part of the world um no I don't think that Monty made it in time uh here uh both uh attending and um um provided the use case he was talking about okay so we may maybe we need to to then do some fine tuning uh uh later on um to capture some of the the maybe details that he had provided I'm sure there are lots of different uh aspects about firmware um the flamberg sort of distribution so um has someone had the chance to look at this VR I send it out in the in the um agenda and meeting invite um but I wasn't quite sure whether any one of you has had a chance already to uh to look into the use case description and whether you're happy with it or or maybe you had have suggestion for some new text just a cursory review the the format of it um the way that Hank has broken out into the description and then you know the what the consumer wants and then the need for standardization that that makes sense to me yeah I have a follow-on question from that I think we want to go from here the use case description too at some point creating a list of user requirements um I believe I saw that in maybe the suit use cases"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "yeah like yeah the driving requirements from the uh from the use case it obviously makes some sense uh and so it's different different group um uh [Applause] there can be a second step once we've once we've got all the use cases together then we can put together a Consolidated list of requirements yeah sure um Hank uh you you obviously have done a lot of work on this uh during the last week uh which is fantastic um our choice uh you you you just raised your hand do you want to say something yes I do actually I guess I don't know if we're jumping in here or not but uh no no go ahead this is uh yeah I'm uh new to uh read Echo and uh really don't understand how it works to be honest is there a chat function in this uh yeah um yeah you should see below your uh video icon you should see yeah yeah we you can see it Karen shows it on the screen yeah yeah there's always the risk of with the chat function um that you get carried away and just uh you have essentially two meetings uh in one if you actually there's also a way to uh zoom out um because otherwise you can't read it so if there's an expand video uh button um also at the kind of at the top of the screen I see buttons at the top I don't see anything at the bottom uh sorry at the top of the screen yeah so there's a expand video or a full screen mode sort of um I don't have those here for some reason Ah that's strange this is on a Mac I don't know if there's a uh oh okay maybe maybe that display different yeah um but where's the full screen and the expand sorry um in in my in in on my window it's actually uh when you see the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "indication on who's speaking it's right left to that oh it's it's next to it uh on the left side the box with an arrow going to the Northeast no actually yeah now mine looks different box with an arrow going to the Northeast below the number of participants right below the number of participants well I don't have that either I don't see it yeah no no no no no no I was actually talking about something else but uh it seems like uh uh I use Firefox so maybe it looks different there but I can expect I can zoom into the actually it shows online and it's exactly what you're saying to left the speaking there's a little white box on and the windows clock I it's actually just a a browser client anyway yeah it gives you the bit rate and then it gives you the expand and then there's a full screen mode yeah you can't see it because you're presenting yeah yeah right yeah I don't know I see it okay the Right View there's two expands one for the the person talking in this case Hannah there's another one in the midsection that says expand just the middle portion okay oh yeah you're right you're right okay yeah we are learning new things all the time um also another quick question sorry to uh jump in on tooling so I think it's Kieran who's sharing and it looks like Karen might now be in the in the notes View um I have been taking notes in a different document and so yeah which one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "um well I'm not sure it just shows up um when I go to notes it shows up and it shows my notes there but I think when Karen's in notes he's not seeing the same thing I am for everyone to see it I wonder if I need to save or something no normally that shouldn't uh like normally if you go to the note taking tool that should do the job um [Music] let me see what I can see post the link to the and I can see I can see I just copied from my documentation to the other one so okay anyway I'm not sure what happened there but I'll try to use it yeah that's I mean this is kind of a significant change here we probably should have uh orchestrated a little better this tool is very very different from the three meeting tools that I'm that I used all the time and yeah unfortunately until you can get into the ietf you don't get access to the meet Echo as soon as your ietf then it's it's the way we have to work yeah well right but I mean just that doesn't mean we have to you know that could be be complacent when things are are not as good as other things and by the way also I don't have I didn't have an ITF account until uh just now I had to create one in order to get in the meeting so I missed it first 10 minutes yeah and uh so that's I mean I I guess if we could maybe just have a little bit more like I said orchestration uh we're gonna have a you know some kind of technology migration or whatever that would be really helpful uh right now I still I see nothing in the notes I see no chat uh I don't I mean I don't know if there's a malfunction on my side or if it's between the operator and the keyboard"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "but the chair and the keyboard uh but I'm uh kind of hamstrung here in terms of the ability to contribute so I do see the screen that's that at least is is functional but I have no expand function I have no notes uh and I have no chat so yeah but I think we eventually will uh we'll get there um okay well yeah I just I mean we've got a lot of smart people on the call here and ITF is uh a well-established organization but I just this is uh I'm sorry to derail things but I really can't participate where we are right now yeah maybe we can take just a second to see so do you see the chat um bubbles Charlie I don't see anything so they don't they don't also where Karen is pointing right now or it's this chat panel you don't see that and your screen chat panel see if you look at Karen has it has his point yeah I see Karen screen is extremely different than mine I mean it's got some similarities but that certainly the uh is so if I you know no I don't I don't see how I could open that it doesn't seem to be away are there honestly we know that is there information about medeco somewhere we can share with people yeah that would be helpful you know like docs or I would look it up Neil okay I guess we're there now I'm just um playing along with me Deco I like everybody else it looks nicely integrated to me and so on but uh you know it will take a little learning curve at least thanks yeah yeah that definitely is uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "Stephanies but um at least like to take advantage of the Full Features uh obviously takes a little bit of time um but at least um audio announced screen sharing is working so that's that's a very great and uh and I think um what we also have which is uh like the the use case write-up that um Hank was working on basically last week like judging from uh the many commits he submitted uh so that that's also great um and if we jump back to that uh use case um Hank what do you think is missing like besides the sort of um and how did you phrase it uh sort of misbalance between some of the use cases in terms of writing style but uh um like where do we go from can I just close on that issue is there some place that I can get this info because honestly it's uh it's kind of pain in the neck uh yeah the the the pr yeah yes if somebody could forward me a link or something that talks about Meade Echo and how I get it to work with Safari and on the Mac that would be fantastic and uh with that I will stand down but I don't want to abandon that because otherwise I'm going to be continue to be lost so Charlie I over sent you to his request you want to share your screen over team so I can see what you're seeing well that's not let's not do debugging here uh but yeah yeah I have another question Matt um posted some some links uh which um I will post to the mailing list uh uh thank you I don't have those notes though honest ly okay thank you that's the links that um that net uh provided because I'm actually like um so there are obviously people who have more um burst with media code and I'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "yeah okay I do have the notes I clicked on the notes and it looks like they are open uh so that works but uh just again don't want to derail this but I do you know need to uh just make sure that I'm technically functional here so thank you okay Roy you have your hand up and then uh Hank and then Kieran so when I was writing my document just just bring down some of my thoughts the one thing I I question is whether there should be some statements of negative use they could be very easy to use a a this this product is no longer under support you should go you use the new one and charge you a 5.95 for the next version do we have want to make any statement of saying hey this should not be used for marketing purposes or to drive forever oh like how do you normally handle that house uh good question or maybe we just leave it as a question and we Research into yeah okay just a good potential new use case is that right Roy so well it's a question of I don't want to be used as a way to drive Revenue like you realize version two you shouldn't be able to say hey version one is is no longer safe you must use version two and chart force you to use to spend money when there's something nothing wrong with the last version like it would be basically a what do we want by convention to do I I see almost like uh I don't know Hank do you want to buy on to that question or is a different topic uh I'm I'm on a different topic but I think here I think we are um mixing actually the the topic that is that my"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "brought up is mixing uh use case to run with what's the policy on how to uh how the whole specification text is used in where we're created yeah and and I think both both are kind of in that realm I don't know uh we have to talk more about that that is I think a good topic to not lose track of so that should go into the minutes and everybody is also by the way free to add to the minutes right we have officially minute takers if you think something interesting just right in there yeah I'm I'm trying to keep up but I'm apparently so this is an interesting uh uh chaos session so please bear with us uh situations will improve and uh having uh back China conferences that basically oh 101 explain how this works is one thing to do we can also set up a a training session uh and then screen share around that so that I think that's absolutely fine to do especially when we are approaching up to the Christmas days maybe uh the schedule is a little bit less strained and we have time for like a like a test session whoever wants I need some introduction and guidance whatever so I I wanted to actually reply to harnesses our question that was uh do you think is anything is missing here and I think yes at the very least I think missing is because the consumer in all the use cases is literally uh what we would intuitively see as a consumer software here uh the customer buying something installing something uh we have another consumer that's the auditor I think uh there must be at least one auditing use case and and somewhere that and and and I personally think we sometimes have uh interesting problems like um not only that things have to be auditable after the facts so that's an auditor maybe one or two auditor use cases but also we have an infrastructure use case especially in a high critical systems that air gap scenarios how do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "you validate something when everything goes through a service uh do you have to be online all the time or can we mitigated somehow I think that's that's a very especially from critical infrastructure uh that say uh um they want to all the all accounts abilities shall be there but oh no online it shall not be I must have it with me here right now so there must be this air gap problem sometimes and I think there's no use case for that at the moment and I think that's strongly related how to get all the data that we we want to produce here and I think that that might yield some interesting requirements also so yes I would say there are one or two auditor use cases missing and one infrastructural one are you planning to add those use cases or is someone is working on them yeah I'm planning to add on this I I signed up for December and we are only in second week so yeah I'll do that I I will start that and then everybody can bash them until they look fine you know that's that's the way this is me foreign I have um heard a lot of positive things regarding the use cases uh of course it's not complete yet but uh um any other any other comments like like maybe some yeah like Ori have you had a chance to well you have looked at earlier versions of the use cases but probably not the ones that um Hank was working on most recently right you are muted there we go um I have looked at the most recent uh versions um it looks good I left only like one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "comment on it um I'm I'd be in favor of taking a a bit more frequent merging um schedule for some of these things to kind of get them into more editorial shape um I know you know at any point with GitHub you have a full history of the provisions of the document and when you do a full read through you could you know object to content that had been added um and file an issue and we could discuss it as a group but I think you know at the early stages of a document like this it would be helpful to merge a little bit more frequently um just so that we can get some basic structural in place um so that would be uh I I think the the changes look good to me um I'd be eager to see them uh merge because it's easier to do a review of a smaller pull request when the pull requests are this large you won't get very good reviews from the community so that's it yeah dick um so one other use case I'd hope we can get to at some point I will entertain Hank's help with this is using an app store use case where you can use a skit registry to check the trustworthiness of an app before installation that that's another case and we see a lot right now of course Tick Tock is getting a lot of attention due to the lawsuit that's underway with Apple and Google but I think this is another potential use case which has a has a solution thanks dick sorry can you repeat that again so it's using App Store to check what yeah here's the deal K uh so when you go to an app store and you do a search and you get a list back uh you don't know which of those apps are trustworthy uh and so some indicator of trust would be very helpful and maybe just a button that says go to skit the skit registry and tell me if there's any trust for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "this app that's the scenario I'm thinking about so people you know if any people use the like button but you can imagine where something like a notary function would examine an app and then file a trust declaration for that happiness get registry which we could link to the app stores so that anyone could say looking at an app press a button and say is there a trust declaration in this trust registry for this app thanks hopefully that's clear enough yeah I had a question on that but I I can't tell if other people have their hands up um uh Hank is Hank is next okay uh yeah I just want to reply to Ori we click and see I hear you um at the moment I so that's where I'm coming from I'm coming from the point that I inherited APR from yogesh it was I I I'm purely German very polite so I did not mess with it I branched from yogis abroad so this is a branch of Abram and um yeah I can pull everything back together into Maine if we find a if there's nobody is like like um like objecting yeah uh I I think that it doesn't have to be a consensus call on the list because um we're all offers I just was too uh hesitant to mess with things that yoga's left and he comes back everything has changed you know but if it's for readability it's easier we can I can pull sorry I can merge my Branch into yoga's Branch or merge that into Main and then we can go from there again that is not an issue so actually we had a stable State I can remove the draft uh portion of the pr and literally someone else can then merge it and can approve it that's fine if there's no objections here right now I think I think uh like from the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "feedback so far I think that's what you should be doing uh to actually because then it will be will be readable and people then then we can we can we will add on uh to that and and see where that goes hopefully soon or he understood things so so there was a decision there to to merge it yeah well we don't need to um so like this is not a working group document uh at this point in time like we want to get it into the state so so I think it's totally fine to uh agree in this call um since there weren't uh there was positive feedback um so I'm happy that uh Hank spent all the work to clean this up uh and to get it to sort of the next level so let's do that uh sorry foreign IQ to respond to Dick's comment about you know app stores and Trust Registries and I I think um the implied to some degree in his comment is that skit is a single registry and and that's that's definitely not how I've used get uh skit is a technology for building uh transparency Services which there could be many of them and I think we should be anticipating there being several of them um at a minimum and whether an app store platform uh from a major you know technology company would use one of these things in their App Store software as sort of that's that's for them to decide we're here to build a particular uh set of drafts and documents at ITF that provide standard interoperability building blocks for folks who are building those kinds of things um and so I think thinking about what the kind of consumer brand feeling that comes on top of these standards is is uh is definitely excellent work but maybe best handled outside of ITF that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "it okay I love my microphone used to be used again can you hear me yeah well we can okay beautiful yeah so I guess uh Ori uh stated it I think pretty well um I agree that uh whether it's an app store or whatever the individual uh you know end user use cases the specifics of it we I think we do have it captured in the use case document right now and we could probably uh generalize uh to the point that we need to uh and again I think or he's got a pretty good point about you know this may not be just one uh registry it might be several and therefore that might be out of the scope of the use case so I would Advocate uh plus one for Ori I think we're okay uh in the use case spec as I read it uh thank you honestly thank you gentlemen uh no I appreciate where you coming from uh and and my proposal is really just based on observations from uh existing supply chain type of you know experiences that we are seeing so uh I'm not really suggesting that that skit be a one-way street that you know and we you know in front of bias in some ways but what I I hope to do is raise some awareness as to the supply chain use cases that exists today uh in the hope that some of the skit work will enable us to solve some of those problems thank you yeah yeah I guess I hear you guys saw it um sort of agreeing with each other uh on sort of the distinction between like what is the enabling building block and what's the actual specific deployment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "um um sort of circumstances and and I would say like if one sector let's say uh these mobile phone uh sort of providers want to want to offer that uh capability they can do that and that's that would be of course great great for my deployment I'd like to add that I put into the chat uh essentially the use case that I'm describing described by our one of our FCC Commissioners in uh in the Apple uh Google antitrust lawsuit that's going on with Tick Tock right now so this is actually a really good example of a supply chain issue that we've seen from the App Store so this is not theoretical this is something that is real today and it's it's causing problems and the solution is uh is in order thank you yeah thanks thanks for sharing uh that's obviously always insightful um Hank how are you doing with the sharing uh that they're merging sorry is that done can you guys hear me yeah so no no I uh so Brian just approved the uh PR it opens up for um for Merch I can merge it right now I just put into the chat that we can uh still look at it but maybe that's just not necessary I've merged it into yogesh's one and then I will imagine remain and you will be seeing it in a minute okay okay yeah that's good uh okay um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "yeah it was uh I'm surprised that you guys uh saw aligned on these on these use cases um I'm sure there's more editorial work and and adding things here and there but uh that's uh excellent news um in um so Monty is not here so we can't uh discuss his specific uh firmware use case that he had in mind um but maybe we should also spend a few minutes talking about um of what to do in the upcoming meeting but specifically to focus on because there's always we need to I need to send out the agenda ideally today uh latest tomorrow and so that people can actually prepare and get um sort of read into uh well who is whoever is driving the discussion he needs to have a a sort of possibility to maybe put some slides together if you're appropriate or or do something else right um we have the okay um thank you we also talk about um sorry to jump into and I'm taking notes and so I'm not keeping the breaking track of who's handsome um should we also talk about should we meet like how many people will be available in the next couple of weeks and should we meet her essentially when is our next meeting yeah we um so the the secretary uh sent out the meeting for the next Monday uh so we have still one next Monday but then um I think he and I need to double check the full list but then we have basically a break if I'm not mistake let me yeah I think you're right maybe two weeks break and then uh because I think everyone needs to have a break as well I just can't find the dab of the meetings now um I send it to the list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "uh but of course now it's gone um so um okay case what we could also do is like we had received the request from the six store people about the liaison and to invite them to one of those meetings to have a discussion with us so a better person a presentation maybe an update on where they are uh just to sort of like talk about their stuff I think that would be also um used for time spent we do that one in I'll be out next week and I think I have a few others will so I'm wondering if we could possibly cue that one up for the 12th of December I mean whoops I'm not saying that right apologies that's today um the uh January 9th yeah yeah uh like we obviously need to give them some time as well uh like um I think they would be surprised if I asked him uh for presentation next week right yeah to get that material and Etc so um the the other thing like we have now uh Hank submitted the architecture document um as a serious serial working group document so needless to say that there are a lot of issues open um doing a round of review and uh and making some progress on the architecture document would of course be useful as well because that's kind of lays out the foundation and uh specifically having a better understanding of the use case double checking in the architecture um is going to be useful"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "how is that a question on on that um so I've I've been thinking and maybe this is maybe my thinking is too linear so people can check me on this but if I go with the linear idea it feels like if we have the use cases the the problem summary then we do the customer requirements and then we go back to the architecture document um it feels like a natural sequence to me because so then we can say okay does the architecture document cover all the requirements if not do we need to add new things to meet those requirements um yeah uh well that would be that would be excellent uh if someone um or more than one could take a first attempt to write down those uh requirements out of the the use cases we already have I still seem to make progress on terminology too good point the terminology is also something uh we we had a discussion uh the other day and uh I I got the impression like for some of the terms we are a little bit uh all over the map but for others it looks pretty good um so if they do you think it's about there is a possibility to actually drive some of those uh terminology discussions home um maybe even a mailing list let's say the next week it's in some sense like not very not very complicated but of course there's a lot uh a lot of conflicts like uh conflicts with other terms used in rats and and uh who knows what other groups uh TCG and and etc etc so like it's it's uh it's difficult so there's no right or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "wrong in some sense it's just uh what does the what is the preference of the group ultimately thanks yeah so uh I would like to repeat a mantra of the iitf year uh paralyzed and not uh sequentialized serialized sorry uh so it's basically um yeah if you if you feel you can contribute to a document don't feel inhibited by a sequence so uh you can always open my PR on any type of document we have here visible adapted or not it's all reflected on on iitf skid or iitfwg skit at some point I actually don't know yet I put ietfwg skit as a reference into uh for GitHub organization into the architecture Africa for example but I haven't checked for it now if that's actually existing so it might just be programming at the moment so but having said that um no I think we can focus if we have a primary focus on the software use cases so if you the guidance where to focus on go to the software use cases and and if you find something weird in the terminology or want to clean that up I think uh there's still this um there's the sequence of how we refine messages from from the actual products we are talking about and then there's again that's none of these these uh this thing that you talk about the product and you sign it and then you make it more visible transparency and integral services so so these These are where we are circling or always a little bit all these terms if we can set those better um then I think uh early um other texts will be also more consistent so I have to agree with Roy here that there are some things we really should settle on uh the verifier and distinguishing it from rats verifier that's that's that we can try on later I think that is not a problem but the message and the most important roles I think they should be uh have a working uh um thesis status that is kinda okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "and agreed upon so that discussion I assume has to be driven on the list hmm Roy is that something um you could try to drive uh on the mailing list to see whether we get anywhere with this sure I suspect um I think we want to make another round on the use case I would sure love to see another use case to try and pull out some commonality I've stated this before having one use case kind of doesn't tell us where we're going to have conflict we understand the the rats one but the use case ones are concerning to me that we go off and Reserve words that are going to cause US problems later yeah yeah that would that would be great um specifically since you you seem to have something in your head already and basically just need to dump it into a sort of a pull request um but but I also liked uh case idea of like um like already now like Reviving some of the requirements and seeing like did we did we are we actually capturing everything like specifically going forward like we we work on the various Solutions like what uh is there something missing coming out of those software use cases and maybe there's not then that's great uh that's a that's a positive confirmation that uh the stuff that was worked on uh previously on the on the architecture document is just um covers it yeah I'd be I'd be happy to drive I'll probably uh leverage some folks on my team um but but we can work on the customer requirements um it's people are going to be out for the next couple weeks so it'll come along in January yeah yeah so that that may take some time someone I'm wondering um if we if we manage to get some of those uh additional use cases we talked about uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "done by uh by next Monday and have a discussion of those um and ideally we they are in a in a state that we could actually uh dump it into the the main um into the main branch of the of the directory because we GitHub report right I've asked this before so the use cases are basically how we view the product for the components what we're building the working group we're building blocks to help us build those things what do we put in the requirements only for the building blocks or we're putting requirements in for the for the whole use case like we haven't even lawsuit what parts of the use case belong to the working group yeah we uh um I would I would put the requirements for the for the building blocks um not for everything because uh because otherwise we have a list of requirements which we are then basically have to display declare outside the scope of the work but having requirements for um the technology that uh already described in the architecture document would be good as a confirmation of uh how this works and in some sense like there's this kit document does this that we talked about um also like there are a couple of examples also the suit documents do that um the the functionality in for example the suit manifest doesn't fall um from the sky they it basically derived from uh the various different requirements and their threats as well we don't yeah uh obviously it's right having a list of threats is this would be used for this one Hank uh you raised your hand exactly so yeah uh coming back to your question can we have something substantially added next week yes I I'm just saying yes right now it might"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "not be as cool as this round but um but I I try to capture what I raised here in this meeting and uh go from there foreign okay then then maybe that's what we should put on the agenda um for next week this uh how should I leave um these additional use cases and uh and we can pick up uh a first step and and or various people who who raise their hands um can give it a try and see how that works out and whether they have some some text that we could discuss obviously since they haven't nobody has seen them uh before so there may be some some discussion and thanks for watching I I saw that you posted uh the link of the uh the document now in the in the chat window which um leads to some nice rendering um so I hope that that will give others also a chance to to read through it maybe print it and then read through it uh yeah looks looks good to me good okay um it was a bumpy start this meeting but uh I hope next time first of all you are joining um and because we had planned these meetings with uh just using different tools beforehand uh now we use a new tool not a big deal and and we just um tried to make some progress before we all disappear in in uh what many of us uh not probably not everyone um India vacation time any other things anyone wants to race hey honest so I shared the the meetings link that uh that you had sent out like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "on on Friday right with all the skid working group meetings I just put it on the chat uh you can go and add your that meeting to your calendar so that you know next time you you can you'll have a reminder on your calendar yeah yeah just note that the um so the link to the mid Echo it doesn't come in those ics's so um so you're just something to pay attention to the uh agenda that Hannah sends out when he includes the link for each meeting sorry to interrupt Thomas no I'm saying I'm like I'm going to update uh the agenda I hope that this is then immediately reflected into uh the list that um uh Kieran sent around so you if you click on it of course uh or not of course um I actually I should check so if I update it and you may um you imported that beforehand um I maybe it's a link to the agenda or it's if it's the actual agenda then um obviously we you just have an old version of the agenda that's unfortunate but yeah since we just talked about it API Group when I when I imported the ICS it had an old version of the agenda yeah yeah so I don't know about that um we'll figure it out and yeah but uh thank you thank you all for tuning in thank you for the patience uh even though we had some some technical issues at the beginning so talk to you next week and uh thanks uh particularly Hank for um doing all the work in the preparation of the use case so I think we are better off than at the start of the meeting thanks everyone take care everyone see you after the holidays good stuff"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "thank you so much thank you take care thank you yeah"
  }
]
