[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "Maybe Dave needs to cute like that really would have preferred if it let me stay logged in from two devices This would all be a lot easier for Thank you Chris, can you hear me? We can hear you. Can you hear us? Dave anybody soren yeah yeah you you. Can you hear us? Dave, anybody, Soren? Yeah, yeah, I can hear you. People nodding their heads on Thank you I don't know know say something for me to hear you Okay, I'm saying something. Okay, now that's much better Thank you, Dave and fall now really a problem? All right, we're one minute after and we have a pretty full agenda so i'm going to go ahead and get started I will ask for a note taker, at least someone to join"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "in on the IETF note taking tool to help the chairs out I think I am on the tool Are you on the tool? I am not I can't manage all of the things. No, no, no, no i i just want to make sure if anybody i i you on the tool? I am not. I can't manage all of the things. No, no, no, no. I just want to make sure if anybody, I'm on the note-taking tool that is in the IETF media things no no no no I just want to make sure if anybody I'm on the note-taking tool that is in the in the IETF meeting page it should allow other people to join. If they have not, I'm going to try this tool one more time today Thank you Sorry, Chris Yep, no worries. And there's a nice little echo in the room we're just gonna to live with that. All right Note well You should all be familiar with this You agreed to this when you registered. This is not a full statement of all of your responsibilities Those are in the BCPs listed Please be aware of this and know that you agreed to it. I'm not supposed to interpret it for you. That's what the lawyers told us earlier in the week Note really well, this is an IETF meeting, we try to create a positive environment here. It's about making technical things better, not about comments on people or things Be nice to everyone If you have I'm mystified Yeah, and if you've been harassed But you can't explain it, so go ahead If you have been harassed, you can talk to your chair friendly AD who just joined us, or the Ambud's team at IETF if you don't get uh there are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "avenues for you to have that fixed, if it might happen Okay, meeting tips remote participants, please turn on audio and video off unless you have comment or something to say, join the mic queue, et cetera In-person participants, both of you have already joined Meetecho, so I'm going to be pretty sure you're already in and there's no Q for you to sign It's pretty late in the meeting, but here's meeting help and agenda if you're looking for it. There's still one session after this so you can find what you can do next Okay, we made it through the kind of pro forma stuff Chair's welcome. Take us hopefully 10 minutes. I'm going to go through Doc status. That might take up a few minutes We did the welcome. Thanks for those who attended both remote and in person Get that. And now let's kind of go ahead and talk about draft status So, okay, I'm not going to try and dive into these. These are just we're going to touch on them really fast. Next thing on the agenda is actually milestones so we can, you know, beat these horses till they're dead in a minute Internationalization is coming up to last call, I think. That's the sense of have. Interested in feedback on that I think. And Zad, you're in the room if you want to comment I think we need another I just got a review from from christopher janz I was responded to that, and it will be in an 11 so at that at that point I think it will be the time for WGOC, but not now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "Fair. I'd also like to make sure that both the head, who I know has an interest in this and the internationalization team has a chance to make sure that we're on the, you know, doing the right thing before we fully last call it. It's ahead Yeah, I mean, I mean, I think we have been doing like hourly review call for this item team and I have always talked with very Levy, so we actually could get a good reviewer who understands this technology rather than not like like completely so I think there's history now behind us. So we need to learn from that and work on that one. So when you guys are ready? with like, okay, it's ready from our point of view for an early review So let me know I'll try to find out somebody really interesting and the team now knows they will not like randomly assign somebody on it okay if yeah I think it's ready for an early review but if you're talking about WGLC you'll have to wait for 11 because i have the Christoph's review to deal with it wait for 11 because I have the Christoph's review to deal with and I will do that in the next few weeks I mean, you do what you cannot just let me know you can send it kind of other status here we have a number of drafts that are submitted working their way through the process not going to kind of go through the mall We have a bunch of individual drafts at this point that we have on the agenda to talk about as well as a number of drafts so this is not the only page of kind of active material. We have a number of individual drafts I would ask kindly if anyone can help take a look at"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "this last one, the NFSV4 recursively setting. I did go through it. It's a rough draft at this point. It talks a lot about server-to-server copy mechanism so it's it's not one but I have seen any activity related to that draft on the lid. So I'm not exactly sure what to make of it Okay I do want to bring up interim meetings I don't know if we're going to be able to or will decide any changes here I would like to get a sense of folks if you know, kind of meeting times what can we do to make them more productive? any other logistics we could fix? Brian and I are willing to kind of enter any comments at the mic and if necessary, happy to do some polls Does anyone have kind of feedback? I know it's not necessarily the most convenient time for our European friends I think it's maybe even a worse time for our friends in Asia. Maybe it really is just a West Coast, East Coast, U.S US So comments, should I run another poll on time? Or are people happy with kind of the current? current timing? Are you heading to queue? Well, all right. Dave Christophson, Q, so. Go ahead want to go get in Q Yeah, so the time is a little suboptimal for me in Europe, but honestly not to untrue about because I'm not necessarily sure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "these frequent calls are that productive I find bathing list discussion and reviews way more suited for most work that if you continue doing this meetings, please publish agendas ahead of time and publish minutes so that AI can join in if it really feels necessary and read up of what you're not So I will say agenda are often pretty late That is on me for sure but they're also not necessarily detailed So as far as agenda public, would more detail matter to you or is the detail in there sufficient? I'll do a better job about getting them out early. I can admit, I'm mostly going to detail level because I've usually only seen the agenda after the meeting with that at the point I don't care anymore Fair enough. I do try to get them out I can take a look if the agenda is that I suspect and stuff Fair enough, okay. Thank you Dave well I'm okay with it, but I can understand that you're with what's been happening. But the real issue which you can address is basically attendance so, because we just have, you know, a few people so that's not your problem but it is a problem i mean noted and yes, I can't obviously force any volunteers to attend Tom? So one of the things I'd like to see is you know the documents have appendices. The appendices have action items I or consensus items I'd like us to see in this meeting we're going to track these X consensus side and then go do that in the meeting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "meeting uh at least uh individual you know chair had off i agree with you Yeah. Chair hat on, I probably agree with you as well, to be honest You know, it would make a more efficient meeting in the chairs would be able to facilitate better. So um, Dave? Well, do you need help for me in that or are you going to take the initiative? We can work with you on that I think, is the right version We can take some initiative, but we can't do it on our own in mind opinion. Brian, any disagree? with that? No, but let's not use meeting Meetecho Does that chair hat on or off? Either way So my read summarizing the kind of comments I heard, you know, type I heard, you know, tighten up agenda, get them out earlier, focus on issues that will make the meeting, the interim meeting more productive And, you know, if that becomes the case, and christopher hawker become, you know, you find you want to join more and it's a time challenge. We'll visit that when we run into it. Does that? reasonably summarize what I? heard? I'm getting head nods in the room. If anybody disagrees with that summary let me know. Jump in the mic queue Okay nothing heard. You can always send an email to the chairs or to the list if that's, if that's, if that's case not the case. Okay, milestones"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "This is all the chair slides there are to start this topic. I am not I am not seating the, you know, discussion with what I think we should do or you know, what draft should get what priorities or setting dates on anything at this point I'm really looking for the working group to have some input here. I can scroll back to the list of drafts that are, you know, in our queue, at least, you know, kind of kind of both individual and working group. I'm looking for some inputs here. We do have some things that are a adopted. At a minimum, we should you know kind of figure out you know, are we committed to that? If we're committed to that, let's put some rough dates on those And for the other set of things, we should you know, put some version of when we're planning to uh you know when we think there's some work we roughly agree with, this is not a you know super tight contract agreement here work we roughly agree with that the working group wants to tackle. I'd like to put the in and maybe with some looser milestones So Mike Q is open. I'm interested in hearing feedback One way or another the chairs have to get milestones updated It is one of the jobs of the chairs and we do need to do the updates Christoph is on his way. We'll give them a minute to get the mic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "Well, I mean, whatever we update the milestones to should probably briefly the work that's actually happening in the working group And I mean, the primary action is on the mailing lists where we can see the hot topics, definitely echoes right now well yeah basically everything we've got on there so the problem is that i think a lot of the work that's ongoing and not submitted and under evaluation is to some extent controversial And I'm not sure we're doing a a service and updating any milestones until reached working group consensus on issues so and I guess that puts you in a hard place because you probably supposed to update the milestones as soon as possible and I don't know when we will reach that consensus so I can say that our milestones are wildly out of date. It should come as a shock to know one. I think we have some near-term things I don't know exactly if I as an individual, not necessarily speaking as a chance at this point precisely, but as an individual, I don't know where I would put the line in the sand for when I think we can, you know, finish ackles at this point. We have some, I would say we have some very active conversations on it. There are some different proposals, but I don't know how that's going to coalesce at this moment, but I think it's something we're going to bring across the finish line I think we're gonna bring internationalization across the finish line in the reasonably near term And the rest become a lot more fuzzy for me from from what I can observe as a chair now I can work with those two and potentially write something a little less"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "definite for some further out milestones but i'm not I'm the part I'm really looking for as a chair fee feedback is we've got a lot of things proposed where where do we see those? What and there are for as a chair feedback is we've got a lot of things proposed where where do we see those what and and they're of some drastically different scale of proposals yes the chairs really do have to update the milestones You're good, or shall I go on to david black? Yeah, let's face Okay, David? I'm going to agree with something that I heard Christoph say which is, I think job one is to figure out what is the working group going to do and possibly shorted it sorted into buckets of the order of yeah i see yeah see see see path to getting this done? We'll take more work, likely to get done later and oh, good grief. And then start working we're working the milestones from from that initial, what is work going to do and rough triage exercise? I got the AD right behind me so I should probably yield to him I will comment that particularly for the going to take some work and oh good grief ones the milestones tend to be flexible as the grand and glorious keeper of the TSVWG, milestones for a while, they were routine updated when the optimistic plans of mice and men ging to glee So, Jahad, I'm David, you have been a great chair in TSBWG and you know what it exactly that means. And I've already read my mind and say it everything that I would like to say So, yeah, I mean, the thing is like, um, uh, Milestone is something that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "we try to, I mean, it is tool tool to help us manage out what we're doing, right? So you chair and me just need to agree, like, okay, this is the thing that we are doing so I think from from point of view, my illustrators is also not written something on this stone that we, once it's a milestone we cannot change it. I can go ahead and do it all the minus 20 you have. So that's not a problem. It's more more of like what is your chairs and working groups for you like what we're doing right now and what we're going to do next more more more of like what is your chairs and working groups view like what we're doing right now and what we're doing to going to do next i also told you like i'm i'm fine with reviewing the time in it so that you have a list of the thing and you put a next and all this thing. So that's, you can also take that adventures if you don't know, like, which is a time we're talking about because sometimes the timelines are like just to, just to indicate like where where what's our target and also but think about like if this timeline time date and time is actually helpful for this somebody who's implementing, like, somebody is releasing this thing and they have a they need to show somewhere like this is happening. That would be a nice thing to put up. Otherwise, I mean, list the things that you guys think like would be doing i'll perhaps question like what or what and then that's the explanation you need so it's on you on the working group chairs authority to pick up the milestone thanks other comments? Does anybody want to make any kind of guesses? as to not that I am unwilling to draw a line in the sand, but if anyone else would to take some guesses on Ackles? or on internationalization I mean, I feel like those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "are the ones that are more tangible I don't know, Tom FlexFile, I think there's still some hurdles to overcome, but I don't know if there's if you have any any feelings there be happy to hear what thoughts are. Christoph? Yeah, so, I mean, I think internationalization is different towards the finish line I'm a set in my review not in entirely happy with the document, which a lot of it is about the structure of the document, but the technical decisions in their, like, made, made in their I think, are very sound and we should go forward with it So basically, I think and I don't remember anyone disagreeing with the technical decisions there, so I think we've got consensus and works in the think, in the broader sense. So that's probably the first milestone where we have consensus and we're confirmed to get down but i think after that, it gets a lot more money I mean, there seems to be a broad consensus that we need to do something about Ackles, but I'm not sure we've reached complete consensus on what, except that it should involve significantly better support of Draft POSIX ECALS on what, except that it should involve significantly better support of Draft POSIX, which I think also seems to be a wide agreement that after that, there's still a lot of discussion going on, how we're going to do what in detail But given the significance, given the pain echoes have caused in general, and for Yonix-Filescom servers, I think that's actually an item that generates a lot of excitement and gets people motivated to actually get work done. So I think that's definitely up there on the milestone list Well, then we got the famous BIS document and I don't think we cannot do a BIS document, but we're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "everything seems a bit muddy of what we're splitting out and what maintenance we're doing in there and if this is the right place to actually get new attributes in a few cases I think most have moved out, but Dave, nobody will probably have all the details as the editor and after that, I don't really know what else is going on I mean, Tom's going to talk about the new Flex files today so that we'll loop in somehow somehow somehow The recursive set editor document you mentioned, I've never seen it before and I couldn't find it on the working group email list arch either, so I don't even know where you heard about that It's in, if you go to the Datatracker, it's on the bottom as an active draft that Okay, yeah, but I mean, unless the authors actually show up I'm with a mailing list of these never mind in the working group meetings of person, I think we're safe to ignore it for now I know, I I've been wanting to do a tiny little draft for a little more like scuzzy and me layout stuff but that's not really on anyone's importance list in a chip should be like two pages when I get it done and mostly flamper more like Scuzzy and VME layout stuff, but that's not really on anyone's importance list and it should be like two pages when I get it done and mostly fly under the radar. So I'm not sure that's worth it for a milestone Yeah yeah, I think we need to reach consensus on what we want to do with echo what we want to do with Eccles with security, the scope of the BIS document, and that should give us nice milestones because that's work that's been in progress forever Dave? Dave you're muted, or at least we can't hear you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "Nope This is Brian Sorry to jump in. I had to log out and log back in, Chris, for audio. I lost it I hope you heard that I think we just lost them completely tom herbert David Dave, we can't hear you Oh, my machine's frozen now Dave, Meetecho thinks you're muted because I did that. All right, anyway All right. So as I said, the internationalization probably IETF 121 and I appointed of it, I think we need to address is security, I think I know there's some disagreements about that but I think we need to I think that's in a pretty good shape, and I think we need to just make clear if there are disagreements, what they are and try to resolve them I think I've heard some stuff that never really amounts to this is wrong or fix this. I think we need more and more specificities. That's sufficientity about that Okay, that's it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "Okay I'm flying blind while I reconnect, so Tom Yeah, so you'd ask me about the flex velocity, too. So it's, I'm presenting today to iron out some things issues. I think the working group will have with it as for when it's ready it's probably a year out a year and a half I mean it's you talked earlier about something being rough, this is rougher than that that so okay I don't know who's in cube Brian helped me manage this as well while I hope for some laptop to reconnect Okay Come on in, you can at least have a seat, there's space space Hey, Chris, I'm managing it from my phone. It's a little bit different UI I'll keep an eye on the queue. Yeah, okay. Well, uh, booting back up. So this is kind of what I've heard so far If I were picking dates, I'd put internationalization at the end of the year. I'd give ackles about 18 months You, Tom, just said, flex 12 to 18 months I guess I'd give it, yeah, Ackles I just said, flex 12 to 18 months. I guess I give, yeah, Ackles I'd probably give about 18 months. Christoph I don't, maybe I'll make a mouse to, I don't have a good answer to that at the moment. That's probably okay I might put a milestone in there and we'll just be flexible and we can drop it if you say, hey, drop it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "Security Dave, I heard what you said. I'm not really sure what to make of that because I feel like consensus is still rough And honestly, we're still struggling with the adoption call at the moment so and I think this is also going to be a ways out at a minimum I'd give BIS 24 months I mean at a minimum I don't I wish I had a crystal ball for that. I do not Objections to what I just said Dave, if we really want a security milestone, we can put a security milestone in there but I'd probably also put it out 18 to 24 months and we can refine as we go Does that work? younger than I'd hope, but probably realist Well, I think any standard is pretty much further than anyone hopes, but if you can fix that we need to have a, there's a lot of people who want to have that talk All right, the chairs made note of this i i have some rough notes here on paper at a minimum. There also should be in the uh in the note-taking tool uh look at said we'll send you milestone updates a week or so okay that brings us to I went too far, that brings us to the international draft And Dave, you don't just give us a way minute okay sorry wait a minute you have three"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "three slots from here and I've only requested to and I don't have us set of slides for international. I'm not looking for slides This is any kind of comments I know Dave, but it's it's a document that's getting close to a working group last call. I put a time slot in it for for it anyway. So is there any up? updates for the working group? I know we just got it up review from christopher rowen list. Is there any other things? we need to update on? Otherwise, we're just going to move ahead to Tom Well, just what, sorry, just what I said that, you know, I will respond to that And as Christoph said, this broad note, there's some structural issues, and I think I will address those, and we have had any disagreement on technical matters so that's why I don't see this taking 15 minutes So that's good because I think would went over time on the milestone conversation which I anticipated, but it didn't have a solution to I'll also note that I've heard comments that there, some just actual editing, text editing, help would be beneficial here. I'm interested to know if anybody is willing, interested to kind of help just work through text not necessarily structural change, etc cetera. Christoph So, I mean, first note, we actually started just on time You used exactly your 30 minutes you had for your two items, so we're perfectly in time right now now So I've enjoyed working with a markdown-based process for my NVMEDRA in time right now um so i've enjoyed working with the markdown-based process for my nb me draft so i'm definitely available for a bit of editing and work We would want to change control, at least for smaller drafts. I don't want to get anywhere"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "One issue that I raised in my internationalization review, which is actually broader than just that draft which might be good views of the in-person time here or the on on-call time, is the issue when we do these split-out documents like internationalization security I don't think Ackles wouldn't go there but who knows is right now the document tries to update 4.0 at 4.1 documents, which I don't think is a good idea, but I don't know if my opinion is consensus in the working group Because in the end, 4.0 and 4.1 are very different documents and trying to update them in the same document and starting from the different baselines. Is it general a bad idea? And I also don't think that working on a very much obsolete in the field project like 4.0 beyond the usual route work we're supposed to do and should be doing is a good use of the working group time and good to do in your document and I just wanted to kick that out and hear what I think you put that on the list as well yeah Tom? Yeah, if we're using Git something else on the willing to do editorial stuff So there's clear change control. And so we do have the Git we do have a working group Git instance So, um, I know that I've given kind of, uh, can or whatever to a bunch of people I don't know, Dave, if I've sent you or if I've put your username in there, if you're able, will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "to use Git, I can certainly add you if I have not already if you're interested in that approach Go ahead, Dave You're muted again Dave, still muted Dave, you were muted. We didn't hear you My remarks was I'm willing but I'm not able right now and need some sort of tutorial about that Chair's will work on that Okay All right. I think Tom met me makes you up. Let me get to your slide deck So I've already heard that the word protection text is no good so we'll go from there Can we advance the next slide? So 8435 was really kind of focused on the flex file, which was you know, separating the metadata from the data and essentially providing pointers from the metadata to the data servers, which was a big step. Next slide, please please And the V2, we're going to focus more on protection types. And by protection types, I mean the client-side mirroring, client-side erasure encoding And I'd like to also, my vision of this is we can make"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "it generic enough that we could also slide in or read Solomon but I'd need help from the working group to do to do that Can you take three steps back and explain what you're trying to do? Yeah, can you expand on this a little bit more? I thought I was explaining what I was trying to do So, so what, I'm not being facetious what are you um so looking for? So why, so you have an erasure code approach Where is the read? I mean, so we know metadata from data is separated Where do you want to put the read Solomon encoding mechanism? the error recovery a mechanism and why? I want to put it in the protocol such that we can have different implementations of say I'll read Solomon interact in the protocol or different implementations of Lerje interact And that's on the, for the, not for the metadata, for the data system, presumably Right. So the responsibility is for the metadata server to hand out a layout that will enable the client to employ the protection algorithm to send the data Next slide, please And rather than dive deep into this implementation or this thing, I want to bring up four issues that I see potentially having, causing problems with the working group security. All right, because we bypass security all the way in the flex files view one. How do I encode the protection? types something in the call the projection header, and then right holes So I'm going to break those down in the next slides Security I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "honestly threw out KRB5, Kerberos, which was the only thing available when we wrote the first draft because it was a cluster F There's just no way to really do it. We could have our per cluster ticket server, but that is a nightmare to do in the first place So we were looking at TL because we believe we can extend 4.2 to all 4.4 to allow registration of proxy service in a way that will generically allow TLS to be deployed inside PNFS all right, not just flex files Next slide, please So I guess what I was trying to bring, let's go back. I'm sorry, I didn't realize I haven't seen me since Monday. I didn't realize that, so my, my, whole purpose of bringing up security is to say that we are aware of it for flex files V2 We are going to provide a method. And, uh, in bringing up security is to say that we are aware of it for flex files v2 we are going to provide a method and it's just in the pipeline next pipeline So one of the things, so I wrote up the XDR for this, and one of the things, that I looked at was why am I supplying? a layout type for FlexV2 and not supplying majeet layout or read solomon Netup rate six layout whatever. And so in essence, we're collapsing all of the protection types into another enum that we're going to have to get an IAN or registry for for And we might have to do what we did with layout content for and I got someone who said they don't like a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "opahics that are used here. And they want to provide specific information and I'm, as people read the document, I want them to look at the way we encode the protection type and say I might good with this or I might not good with this? right? Do I want to see each one of these have their own? separate document, their own separate layout type? or do I want to see them all in one? as is being presented in the document? And then we come to what I consider the most consensus the most contentious part, is the Moje, the, so the Moge implementation is Ken from the University of Nod's it's all out in the public, there is still even there's still a a GPL version of it available to use. And what it does, is it has a, um, payload on top of the data that goes out in each read and write operation. And the problem is, is this payload is not four-by-to-line, which means it doesn't go xDR, which means that endiness is an issue So the, both the client has to be aware of what the endingness is, but you can still think of this in that reads and rights are opaque anyway. So the client has to agree with the server or the other clients in the endingness of the data in the first place place There's a performance cost to pack in the XDR I don't know if you care about that. And if we go to the next slide, I will show you that here's the current projection header, which you can see is a bunch of data fields which are packed to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "the smallest they can be So when we look back at the blocks and we look back at the blocks and we look back at the object, RFCs and I couldn't tell whether or not they encoded anything that was data filesmith specific in these in the packets they sent one of the things right now is I have david black online and I was wondering if he recalled that they did anything special for that All right I guess that. Could you repeat the question, Tom? So David, one of the things is we're faced with we're sending a data file across the wire and it has a 16-byte header, which is Indian, and I was wondering if when the block and the objects protocols were done, were there anything? that was like a control block in the in those things? No. No thank you not for not not not for not for block and I don't care to speak to object okay I'm not an expert in object either but they really didn't. It was XDR or SCSI CDP Thank you. Yeah what Christoph said, we coded everything up. We, we coded what we need up into the XDR, the content of reads, reads and rights are obviously our opaque. Okay Dave, you're still in queue. I think that's left of reads and reads are obviously opaque. Okay. Dave, you're still in Q. I think that's leftover. Do you mean to be in Q? Okay, Chris yeah, but I wasn't sure if I should because I couldn't remember if he was just left over"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "Christoph? The slides leave me a little confused because I think we're deep diving into assuming we can actually sanely do erasure encoding over NFS and discuss the details of pre-existence refinement forment. I don't know So I know I talked to Tom a little bit beforehand in person and I know a few things that not all the working group might know But so the idea behind is that you want to be able to erasure to code data over a set of data servers, right, with a new layout type Now, the thing is, if you do, data replication, let's not even talk about the original encoding, which is the advanced word version of it. Think of simple two, three, four-way replication right? Just a great one in blocks Even for that one, we need to know which off the legs, as we call it, or the different data service actually has the most up-to-date copies, right? So your client replicates the data writes it to two or more data servers and you have some kind of power failure event in the meantime. How do you know which of search? servers has the most up-to-date version? And how do you ensure that a partial right doesn't erase the previous version and he actually lose your redundancy? And that's something that's doable in distribution protocols, but becomes even harder than just doing it on local-ish storage because, I mean, the tip typical ways to do that would be to either log the data in some also mirrored or redundant lock before writing it back in place if you want to never lose data which become more important with parity data, it's a bit of overkill for simple replication"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "Or, for example, what some of the software mirroring drivers do, is you keep a bit map that is written out earlier, which is the more up-to-date copy, which doesn't really work very well in distributed systems, or you always write out of plays and have something record which copies have been written which in many ways fits the PNFS model pretty well because you're layout commit would basically tell the MDS where you've written. And all of this becomes similar but more complicated with the registering because your layout commit would basically tell the MDS where you've written. And all of this becomes similar but more complicated with the Azure encoding. So before we're even thinking of detailed layout, algorithms to use, I think we need to figure out which of these strategies fit into an overall NFS design with what underlying storage protocols to talk to the data servers because no matter what you're doing, you're not really talking to NFS files as the backend, as in like flex files in Elon. So even if we're talking NFS XDR over the Y wire with rated right commands, it's actually something very different than a file system you're talking to underneath. So I think we need to do a lot more architecture work and have a bunch of diagrams showing how these things are actually supposed to work. And how do you do recovery? right, in terms of power failure men or as storage device failure who's going to rebuild the data, who's taking care of scrubbing? I don't know, but those are questions that are- Yeah, no, no, those are- there's some of the questions i am raising here And, you know, what's what I found so be are fair. There's some of the questions I am raising here. And, you know, what's what I found... So, BP asked me a question earlier in the week and goes, why NFS? Why is this NFS problem? And one of the things I had to look at was the V1 document And when it talks about resilvering, it's weighs its hand, right?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "And resilvering is exactly the recovery you're talking about, and that was left as an exercise to view the reader right? And I'm trying to get away from that with this document No, but again, I think we need to come up with a high-level architect of how the clients, the MD, the data servers interact before getting into algorithms and but I don't disagree with that Okay or I do, I do agree with it All right, next slide We already talked about this. Next slide And so as Christop was talking about, ride holes are an issue of, there's two ways to get to it I only talk about one here. One way is two clients right to the same area How do you know which one is more recent? The other one is we already have data blocked in old data. We write new data at block in and then something goes wrong How do we determine which data is? up to date? So how do we fix it? What if the client goes down after the rights or during the rights? So basically, this is a recovery portion of what Christoph was just talking about And I'm not presenting a solution here I'm just saying that this is something to address Okay Next slide. Is there any more? Two more Yeah, so we need an API So I'm trying to I like what Christoph said so much, trying to put this into this This is we need our architecture and how we will go about this. One more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "You want to talk? You can talk I'm going to get in line. Okay. I'll do it at the end And this, again, this is Chris you want to talk you can talk I'm gonna get in line okay I'll do it at the end and this again this is Christoph's idea for staging rights It's not? So anyway I thought I actually deleted this slide, so never mind. It surprised me All right, call around me. All right We're waiting for a sprint Clearly, as an individual So you mentioned that you're really kind of unpacking security model here for flex files and that it's really lacking in view but I think the I guess great thank you, but the flip side of that is also, wow, I think you might be open a gigantic can of worms And it's not clear to me that you could potentially contain your threat model just to flex file. So, you know, um, that's fair enough, Chris And that's actually what I struggle with when I look at the security document. To me, the security document is simply whether we have OSIS or KRB5, right? All the other things I don't put into my threat model. So that's my simple threat model. I want to at least have protection over the wire and the rest of it is a canter worms Okay. I think that's something that collectively the Royal Week, not necessarily just Utah, but we'll have to tackle. For your IAN, a register, kind of comment about how much is transparent, how much? is opaque, does it potentially make sense? to have a namespace where there's some kind of flag bit, maybe the upper bit, the side? public versus potentially a private version? so that you could then say, carve that name space and say, hey, if this bit is set"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "then the next so many bits, say private enterprise number and then they can allocate encodings on their own. We actually do that in the working group in different areas It's an option. It's just something to consider I don't personally have a horse in that race like at all. And I would say, this from a distributed systems from a file system thing the scariest thing for me for what you're proposing isn't actually a power outage on a node because then I know that that node's fully quiescent right? The one that scares me is actually a partition network partition and if you have an m of n code but both partitions, can get above whatever that, you know, threshold is can you write divergent rights to those partitions? Because if you diverge, then I'll bets are off, right? I mean, you will need a human to come in and put the world back together That's my lesson. What's nice is that human isn't me You know, again, as I'm trying to point out, you know, I'm not close to having this publishable I'm trying to raise awareness and trying to find out what the issues of working group is having with it. And I certainly got that feedback today I think I'm going to sit down Yeah, I had to figure out how to get myself out of cue All right, Christoph, is this for Tom? hill? Yeah I'm just get myself out of Q. All right, Christoph. Is this for tom hill? I'm going to swap slides. Well, this is it? tom hill? Yeah, I'm going to swap slides, well, love this said. Yeah, I mean, again, we need figure out if it's even a good architecture to expose for example the erasure encoding algorithm to the client"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "or send the full data to each potential data server and hide it, which would insulate the clients nicely because the idea of coming up with the number of algorithms that every client needs to understand and these algorithms tend to have a tendency to change over time because people come up with more optimal ones for certain use cases It's always been a... So one of the topic in storage research if you dumped into say using fast proceedings of the last couple of years So yeah we need to figure out how to do it. I mean, it's a useful thing to have of it I'm very scared of the implications of having every client to be a full participant in basis a distributed storage system So one of the things is allowing the response to the layout get is to say that I don't understand that protection type But that doesn't help real interrupt response to the layout get is to say that I don't understand that protection type. But that doesn't help real interoperability. Yes, it ticks the checkbox. It's not broken, but it doesn't mean you can plug in various clients into various storage systems. I mean and I'll give you the response that we would provide would be to provide a portal that would map between I can I can service this type of erasure, this type of replica server and you see plain 4.2 to me, I will do the rest for you. It's, it's, there's a performance cost. Maybe Dave? I wanted to generally second Christoph's comment that it's better to have the data protection algorithm be inside"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "the boundary of what you think the storage system is than outside Okay And now I think the cue's empty. All right Run away while you can. Okay All right, today go I go? You should. Okay So these slides are a couple weeks old, and they're about 04, but I think it's appropriate to do them, because nothing I don't think anything that we've that's happened so far over the next few weeks, over the last few weeks, or in 05 will affect some, most this year issues. We'll note, I'll note if there are some cases. Anyway, next slide So the over here is, I want to just talk about what the document now talk about have in slides three to five I is I want to just talk about what the documents now talk about have in slides three to five. We made big changes to the act of, and in my view, they were made nests by this state of the existence description and the goal was to prove an entirely new description while retaining compatibility with existing the main implementation. And also, we included a small set of protocol extensions as described in Section 9 of our 8178 And that may be some of those may be controversial and we'll this, I don't think we'll prepare to discuss this here but if there are controversies about those, we'll, it's best to address those all them now I think this is a this is in line with this, people have thought about it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "to address those other. Now, I think this is, this is in line with this, people have thought about the need to, uh, res- Thank you consensus issues and in interim meetings, but I prepared this to address that, at least partially, for a small set of consensus items that i've done a identified as important to establish direction and those are in slide seven through 15 so we'll discuss those who won't necessarily close on any of those but I want of those out there and you know, people thinking about whether we have consensus on those issues Okay, the next slide, all right All right Let me tell people what's in the documents, okay As part of it, we have to describe Ackles, including there's some semantics. And unfortunately, in previous things, for reasons that I think, Bibi have explained in the past basically that wasn't done and it was necessary to describe the semantics in a way that hadn't been done before because of that I couldn't do a simple clarification of the assistant description because there was no semantic description, had to think that in And there was an attempt when this was done to accommodate multiple completely different act of models that started out in, I think, in RC 3,000, you know, the one before 3530. There was this five page It was just taken wholly from the webbous actles And then later, when 3530 was written,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:03",
    "text": "basically started to deal with the fact that, hey, this wasn't compatible with like for example with Linux servers and tried to accommodate draft positive sax But they never really did that. And so over time, I figured it was best to them provide that semantic basis. Let's go on the next slide slide So a major concept consensual restriction in the o on the next slide. So a major concessional consensual restriction in the old specification 3530 5661, and 8881 India was the NFSV-4 model in all of its glory was canonical canonical and and and the what I call eunuchs actals or draft positives that were just a case of, of, a poor implementation of that that's the inquiry of the document. So I think I changed that to say, well, the core of them is certain mask bits that are close to draft positive cycles and everything else is an optional extension to that and then um, if, once you take that step, you have to define in some way, for, as we have for optional attributes, if some or optional operational operations some way the client to know what the service supports and that wasn't there and so that's why i made this take took the step of adding this new attribute. Now this is an extension and I think there's some controversy about this, but I consider this correction of a defect"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "rather than enhancement than enhancement, although you can describe it either way, but that's why I put it in there. And that's why I think that was the intent, in my point of view section nine of RFC 8178 and I tried to do this only in a number of cases and this was one of those. All right, let's go on to the next slide of this set. All right Okay, you're right In addition to that, I felt we need more care and the definition of the law of behavioral variance And as a result of that, and finally, in 2005, I had what I call a triage of the models, of which the the full NFSC-4 model had to close out because there was no time to analyze that in the detail that wasn't. So basically, I focus on getting clear on the quorum and it core NFS before action that wasn't. So basically I focused on getting clear on the core and core NFS V4 ACO model the core UNIX cycle model and those small extension to that that were necessary to support draft Puzzle cycles. All right so that's, that's that takes us to that point. Let's go on to the next slide So so this is a tough issue for consensus but basically I had to make felt I had to make, I don't, oh, of changes because what we had just, just, just wouldn't come it. So we're like,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "to make big changes if we have consensus. And I think we have lagged over time in the process of getting that consensus So as the consensus items are listed in appendix a1 and there's about 40 of them now And of those, I don't know, selected two One is two tables Table nine which I'll cover later, is those that need to resolve soon on the list I think not today, but maybe we should by the next interim meeting. And I also have another lift that that, I've had to speak nine and ten. Okay Number 10 is that list of, um, needs to result as soon as possible, hopefully by the next interim meeting So let's go and let's go on to the first of those So I'm not sure Okay, so go on to the first of those. So I'm not sure this is. Okay, so basically we had turned the existence as a Okay, so basically we had turn the existence as of and treat the core Unix-Aq model which is a subset of draft positive cycles as the core And explicitly say that those parts are not optional. If you support Ackles, you have to support at least three privileged bids at least three mass bits matching the three privileges and all the other ones became optional And so that's consensus I at number 64 So I think we should resolve that. And does anyone?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "anyone disagree with that? I don't know, I mean, maybe it's just terminology but there is no core Unix axle model I mean, from this slide, it seems like you're talking about the mode bits and the basic Yenix permission bits, which are really not Axel's and entity conditions So, but for, I don't get your distinction between core units Eccles and draft those exactals Well, okay, the different, okay the difference is that, uh, things that felt was, we're necessary was the handling of a part of the satisfactions of alcohol different in the document and in the draft posits. And the other thing is that found out in discussions with Rick was the difference ACLE model. And that is not part of that is something that had to be asked Sorry, the default, I didn't understand you acoustically Okay the semantic difference if you follow the algorithm algorithm that's late out in that document, how you do it. What happens is, suppose you have, for example, if you have the open a file for read and write, you can have one ACE that says, oh, yeah, you can read and another one you can say right And that is different from that draft posits. Which says, hey, everything has to be done satisfied in a single act not not, no partial satisfaction And that was one of the- What your core, Yen-X axles are, right? So the traditional UNIX permission model is based around a file having the user and a group ID"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "associated with them, and you have bids for re-write and execute for the user, the group, and other where execute also means being able to search in a directory. But it's not an echo in any of the modern definitions, so I'm really not sure where you're getting there. Okay when you take one step and move that in the same way that draft positive act will do into an acclimation when you take one step and move that in the same way the draft positive act will do into an actal model so that you can say this group has read and this group has right you're not you do not you're not and at that point you're at the draft of Puzzix act in their various slightly different implementations because the way the last draft, it was just a draft that was never published had a bunch of issues, especially with the inherent in terms of more complicated attributes like the sticky bid or the set UID bid but basically the actual model is slight variation of DRAF COSX ACLS implemented by a bunch of Unix versions. There's no core unit ACCLs that are different from the draft Quasx Ekl variable America. Okay, so let's get that some we don't have consensus on on that. So I think I will, uh, don't know, I will address that in the next, in, in in in dash o five below although I think that needs to be clarified, okay? Let's go on the next step if you're okay with that Okay Mike? Yeah. Have you? No, do you have mic? Are you good? Not right now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "There will probably be more Okay. Okay mic? Are you good? Not right now. There will probably be more bigger. Okay. Okay. Now, I think it's like he said, there's AC mask bits behind. Okay, there are three that correspond to the positive mask bits And there are a whole set that are four grain variants of the right piece of this. You can distinguish it positive mask bits. And there are a whole set that are four-graining variants of the right bit of this. You can distinguish for non, for non-directed, you can see writing existing day or extending the file and for the uh non non for non for non directives you can writing existing data or extending the file and for the and for the directors you can distinguish adding a file adding a sub-directory deleting deleting in that was provide that finer granular was provided, and that's an extension that's in the sub-directory, deleting an entry, that was provided, that finer granularity was provided, and that's an extension that is not in the core units in the courting sacrament or it's not in the draft positive sacral model but it is it is present in the end of full and the draft positive but it is it is present in the end of fully for acronym model and I think I know of at least one implementation that includes most of those, although it doesn't have different in the right hand And also, there's another set of actors that are, uh, difference in the right hand. And also, there's another set of that are sort of finer-grained variance, not of a privileged bit but of the ownership. There are things that say in you could write the acle, write the owner owner, I don't know about right it, but basically the things that go with ownership normally, but in this in this ACL model, you can deny or allow separately Now the existence specs are written assuming that three and four does, don't have business. Basically says, okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "everything's okay because these are just all finer grain variants of those three puts buts but that's not the case and so we had we had with that. And also there were a set of number four, orphan masks that doesn't fit any of those models. For example, AC4 read attributes, which doesn't seem to me to make much sense, but it's part of the spec and it's been implanted by by number at least by at least by one one server so basically we have to clarify that and then in actual choice we have to provide a enough information so the client can figure out if these exist and whether there's anything they can do about it. All right, let's go on If anyone wants to interrupt Excuse, thank you Thank you Okay, 04 is the restriction that I talked about So if I have to clarify that one as I said as a sort of agreed to do I have to clarify this one with it. But we may or may not have consensus about it I think we need to resolve that by the next, by the next, next meeting by the next interim meeting, whatever we decide to do with that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:03",
    "text": "Okay Okay Agle Choice Attribute So in principle, this is simple, that basically if something is optional, and in this model, a ton of things are optional you need some way for the client to figure it what you've done and i did that via an extension and I understand that my might be controversial So that's why I think we need to get consensus on and probably don't have it this instant but you can go forward and get it and get that I don't think there's much more I can say about the fact that why I think that's necessary and uh you want if uh if, if Christop wants to disagree with the let's hear him. But I think we will, you know, my view is this is an essential What are you asked for it? coming Um well, I'll play my favorite Purdy Breaker again and figure out it's like what are we actually trying to do here, right? So if for someone who's just following this meeting, we might be missing that we actually have a very fruIETFul discussion on employees postage draft act for NFS 4 in on the working group, Mayla Elias which is something I'm very happy about And the question is, what is that effort trying to do? 4 in on the working group, Mayla Elias, which is something I'm very happy about. And the question is, what is that effort trying to solve and what are we trying to solve? here with this one? So, and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "I occasionally look over the document and I keep completely lost in it because I can't figure out what it's actually trying to solve So if you have a server that export something that essentially is a Unix file that server is much better served by implementing whatever new approach we have of exporting Posix draft actals over the wire. And if not we actually have that draft that expung ago from Bruce and Marius that describes the mapping of the POSIX draft act to the NFS for Eccles. I'd say sufficiently good, including all the problems that it had right? On the other hand, there actually are a lot of servers that implement a pretty full NFS ECHL model because there are multiple file service that sort of SIFs as well and that has a very similar ACLE model. The mapping is not entirely perfect and it might depend on the excitement implementation choice is how good the NFS 4 ECHL is, but implementation is, but I would call it a more or less complete one so what is the problem statement that we're actually trying to solve here? Okay All right Um, basically not, you know, as you said it would have been better back then to implement rapists but that didn't happen. And we have this thing total mess, and what I'm trying to do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "is clarify that And that would be most venerate to people who use the NFBV ACR middle of which you know for example, on tap is one and it shared a lot of code with the with the But anyway that summarized that and let's cool. What problem? are you, I mean, you, Evan and what what what problem are you, I mean, you haven't any existing server and client obviously don't that benefit from it without code changes because they need to implement your optional attribute and actually fill in. So any, it completely existing server is out, right? So once we start, need to do changes to client and server what kinds of servers are clients are supposed to benefit from this? And what in interaction between clients and server? Well, for example the the NFI before ACR model gives you the option of having separate bits for writing existing data and extending it by. But that's not used because there's no way to know whether. So I'm assuming that as right now, that feature is useful And one thing I try to say is, well, given that isn't in the spec we need to have a way to find it all right? If there exists. But like, it's the same model exists in Windows to multiple protocol file server actually support that particular bond And for example, the Linux. Well, some don't if there exists useless it's the same all exists in windows the multiple protocol file servers actually support that particular bond and for example the let's do and so don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "and some don't. What? Some do support it and some don't Yes, but that doesn't mean it's useless. And I mean, if they don't support it, they better reject setting the attribute like any anything they don't support because without that you'd have a giant security problem even right now What is the benefit of seeing the attribute versus just failing setting an unknown access control don't support because without that you'd have a giant security problem even right now what is the benefit of seeing the attribute versus just failing setting an unknown accessible well okay sorry But yes, but I tried to thought about that but given the way the spec is current written, you have all the ill, you know these were a bad choice. The spec does not require that And right now, I can't require that because... I'm not saying we can't do it, but you need to clearly write down some now I can't require that because I'm not saying we can't do it but you need to clearly write down somewhere what are the problems that are solved what is the real life? And maybe it's there, and I'm just being too dismissed it, but we need a clear problem statement. And I think I'll leave it at that because we get two other people in the queue. But we need a clear problem statement of what this actually helps with, what interoperability and so on Jeffrey? I mean, my only real comment was that I don't see this particular, if I understand what this atrial is supposed to do the act of choice attribute is supposed to do comment was that I don't see this particular, if I understand what this attribute is supposed to do the act of choice attribute, it's supposed to, I guess, describe which acal choice models are supported by the server but I don't really see that as fairly helpful because you know, if you have a server, that has positive, you know, that has POSIX under the hood, you know, then you can have that server present these new attributes you know, the new POSXACL attribute attributes, without having to have this other optional attribute"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "It just doesn't seem superfluous to me. You don't need because this is all about presenting the Ackle to the client right we want to be able to allow the client to set and view these things and you know, if the server doesn't really support POSX ACLs, that can just not present this attribute. That seems like the simpler important, if I'm understanding this correct BP I believe that nothing has changed in 20 years that in the end, we are going to decide this problem is essentially not solvable in and over-the-wire protocol for all cases and like many other areas of NFS over time, it's up to the implementations to map as practice as possible, but they can do into the abstract over-the-wire protocol that NFS defines the NFS protocol has never defined an actual file system. It is close, but it was never a positive NFS defines. The NFS protocol has never defined an actual file system. It is close, but it was never a POSIX file system. It never could handle all of the properties of a local file system So, Ackles are just further along in the difficult in mapping into a generic client server protocol when you don't know what's on the other end So the clients and servers, once again, will have to map and make it right And in the past when we discussed this, the servers that control the data,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "wen lin doubt, security is predominant and it will reject the request for any data if it can't figure out the ACL It assumes that it doesn't work And when we had that discussion, long ago, we also said, in reality, nobody in the right mind is going to create extremely complex acles that can't be figured out by mere mortals. So we didn't think the problem was going to arise I just want to caution during the discussions moving forward that we're simply never going to be away from the fact that different file systems, different operating systems will have different flavors of mackle interpretation that will have to be mapped regardless into the NFS version 4 model and the NFS version 4 model will never resemble in the end anybody's Ackle definition at least I don't believe it will anyway Okay Okay One point is, well, if you're going to do mapping, the client and server are both going to map the client needs to know what the server does And I don't see how they can map. You misunderstand me sorry i can't raise my hand there The client and server mapped to the NFS version for Protocol. That's it That's all it knows. The client doesn't know anything about the store except what it sees with the V4 protocol and it maps in and out of that to the best of its being"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "it knows. Client doesn't know anything about the server except what it sees with the V4 protocol. And it maps in and out of that to the best of its behavior. It's always been the way I feel like the Mandalorian. This is the way Go to the next slide Dave, or? I guess Okay this is, this is the detailed now matter, but the way the spec is written, it renames are treated as deletes and ads from that like cheating them what happened just now Did we lose people? Yeah, Dave seems to have dropped go ahead Tom or sorry Christoph hellwig I mean at least from the Unix-Falston perspective, renames are at the low-level directory always deletes and ads that just happen to work atomic no matter if they're in the same directory or not So from that perspective, it's a completely logical model. And unless you have it different access control entry type just for renaming which gets out of hand pretty quick how else you can do it?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "I don't see the problem here the problem is okay sorry the problem is that if I don't want, uh, sorry, the problem is that if I don't want some, if I deny people the right to create new files, I don't want want some, if I deny people the right to create new files, I don't, I don't necessarily want to stop people from renaming them and that's for by the correct. It creates a new name. I mean, you might be people from renaming them and that's forced by the correct it creates a new name i mean you might not want them to write to it because you have some out of the NFS standard directory quota, but usually it's so that the user can use a new name because that name might be hardcoded somewhere else. He'd create a security problem or something like that and for that matter it doesn't matter if you renaming something into it or it's nearly so I'm not sure where the problem comes from. I'm not sure where we're creating problems that no one cared about ever Okay, let's go on Okay, I think from my what I heard BP disagree with this, but I think you have given an importance of security, I understand why I'm comfortable for importance of security. I understand why I'm comfortable, but I think you need to this you have given the importance of security. I understand why I'm comfortable, but I think you need to define the semantics of these things and that's my position and I understand some may not be everyone Let's go on Now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "this is the current of how the drive as I said before, the model which is not correct, is the all these bits are different variants of different granularity of the three previous bits, but that's not but it's not clear or explicit which ones those are and I've changed that so it is clear which ones are are our subsets of the right permission And I think that's just a clarification Anyway, let's go on We'll again want to disagree with that Okay, let's go on the next door now I thought I clarified that in the girls, but I think everyone this is clarified that in McGrulls, but I think ever this, I think I was the address, I will try to address the Christos Conluss with regard think ever this, I think I will address, I will try to address Christos Conlis with this regard, and maybe at that point we'll revisit this All right Now, I yes, but as Crystal points out, this has done another way, but there is the need comes from that in points out, this has done another way, but there is a need that comes from that. If you do that, I think this is a result of this discussion that I've had with Rick and with with Chuck well, if you set a address process weapons using the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "new attribute that Rick is in, favor, and most people are in favor of you have to be able to read it or you may be able to read it using the uh, the acyl accident. And for that reason, you need to be able to do to make, make, draft posits acles a sub be able to do to make make draft positive actals as a submodel of nip 84 actals which they were almost were and have been made. And so that's where I am with that And I know that, you know, I think that that's one I think we might be able to get the agreement on, but anyway, that's for another time. So I think that's the end of this deck Christoph? Yeah I'm trying to present both echo models for the same file system or even filed to the same client It's just asking for trouble and maybe that's out of scope for this presentation because it goes into the POSIX draft ACL document but simultaneously excess through both for the same client I would very strongly advise against. The server might be able to present different models to different clients to preserve backwards compatibility But doing those yeah I'm not sure what we're getting there and maybe I need to catch up on the email list discussion that what I just heard sounds dangerous Okay, I think that's the end of that deck, and I'm not sure what's next Thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "right, here it's this is oh, sorry. Go ahead Okay, this was prepared a couple of weeks ago and things have changed, and I'll try to accommodate that as they go through the slides All right Well, consider a bride has been done And I think that's still true The discussion has not lagged as much and we had considerable discussion It hasn't worked out the way I preferred, but we had had the discussion discussion It could be because my drafts are perfect, but should be smiling smiley but probably not In any case, that is true statement well discussion is not lagged as much and I think it's in help to have this discussion, even though it has not do I have hope And in my feeling, which I don't, think everyone shares, that this respect has to be considered a rescue effort, a number of respects And anyway, so I said we need working with help to either finish this or decide to do something different So I'm not sure whether there isn't anything to be done differently but whether what is the alternative to the path at that? I think we need to, I know we have need more specificity about what people object to. Let's go on All right well, I think this is this letter"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "why I did what I did And basically, I think appears that I see the world differently than some of the people here but let me give you my view of it We had two major issues that were inherited from V4.0 One international description. This was this was the thing that was the result of the IESG intervention in our in RF1RFC 35 the thing was the result of the IESG intervention in RF1RFC 3530. And basically, for a while we had the situation where we had a spec that clearly the defines what was done and nobody had implemented and that was fixed for four to a seven to half thirty but at the time we didn't know how to, or didn't fix it for 5661 was pretty much based on 7530 And I could handle handling had never been addressed properly and I think I've in the document this thing major issues. For example, it's says that that autistic was an optional means of authentication but it doesn't identify and it doesn't give any hint of what the severe problems are. So beyond those two, major issues, there were a couple of issues that I was aware of and we had a problem with director related performance and met my hope for that and at the time it was in implemented in V4-1 was director delegation, but that never"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "been implemented and I initially thought there was some clarification required, but then I spoke to Rick and some other people, and they proposed some other issues and I tried to dress those So I think, although again, this is no controversial, I thought we needed multiple multi-document model and with certain areas that was anything. That's part because, well, the spec is pretty big, but without doing that, it would be like 800 pages and that was in danger of turned into a black hole, or at least a neutron star Let's go on next slide Buenestead I found how bad the RC-209 were used and need to address that and the effect of the this is BB points out this is a long tradition, but I think in the case of authors, there's semantics. I don't think you can deal with security and I don't see how I could write a threat analysis without without without basing on on uh on, uh, state of authorization semantics and problems with the specificity are way beyond what I expected. No specifications of antithful the state of the state of authorization semantics and problems with the specificity are way beyond what I expected. No specification of authorization semantics A lot of work on sessions that were not usable and a hand wave and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "usable, and there was a hand wave approach to draft process cycles, and later found out from Frick that there were specific elements of the graph processes just ignored not even recognize it about it. Anyway I found that the, uh, there was the features like that persistent reply cache. I looked at that, and I said, how the hell? can anyone implement this and basically it was unimplemented So I think I addressed that, had to address that as well I didn't want to I didn't want to just say live big hole there saying, well, this is just this is just crap But I basically tried to clarify this with something that actually could be implemented. And so that was that. Okay, until the next slide Now, This is Dubu from my point of view, and I think I did do this, but I guess we now find the disagreement about that Well, for Nash, we use the RC7 do this but I guess I know we now find the disagreement about that. Well for Nash, we use the RC-7530 model and I think that one about that well for nash is we use the rc seven five thirty model and i think that will go forward but i think they can continues to be some disagreement about whether it is deployed to RFC to V4.0. And I can see that know how we're going to have to consensus on that issue but we have to. All right security, I took advantage of the fact that RPC with TLS has allowed us to retain use of authsists, which originally"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "people thought that we would get rid of it. We'll never get rid of OTHIS, but we still have to so there's different between using the OTHS clear orthosis in the clear, which is a nightmare, security nightmare, and using it uh together with with tls and so i using orthosis in the clear, which is a nightmare, secure nightmare, and using it together with TLS, and so I, that was why the secure nightmare, and using it together with TLS. And so that was why there's the need for a new secure data A lot of climate cleanup of the RFC 2119 terms was straightforward and you can figure out the case where should capital should was used really meant, gee, it would really benign if we did that An exception was the thing that you said in, in, in, in, in for the, for the exactly one's semantics that he was supposed to wait forever. You can't wait forever as in the case of linux you had to be able to control C, and at that time, the text was wrong in that it taught you something was wrong and that it would be, it was a unmetled requirement of the explanation and I changed that so I think what is said now is both consistent with what people do here and and correctly stated. So that's one of the thing that was done What I concluded was, that when we do 4-1, we do one major feature, and a lot of optional features, including things like direct group delegations, and it turns out and I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "it's a fact that the working group only has been with the one big feature. So a lot of things were mixed And trying to explain how we've been through the review process and still let some of the step back and the IESG, also we went through ISFAR process and still let it go through And so anyway, that's in that goes on to the next slide Thank you Well, Director of Delegations I thought of Vinald mentioned it, and a precision reply cash So I think, uh, think what's described regarding the resistance was reply cash could be implied but I'm not planning to do it anytime too, but it is implementable and it's worth keeping that as an option Now, Ackles were a nightmare and the big problem that I faced was that they're wronging before to and never fixed me before that one and therefore you have several decades of history here. And I think that I could do what was necessary from it technical point of view to address that All right. I know there's disagreement about that but that's my view So now I'm just going to go over what's been done in talking by document. So in 56, 61 this big things I did was split into multiple documents documents And I know there's some disagreement about that, but I don't think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:00",
    "text": "we would want to have an 800-page document And I think some people like for example, Tom, one, we split further but I just couldn't see how to do that Because the problem is you have all this document like, for example, Tom, one, you split further, but I just couldn't see how to do that. Because the problem is you have always interlock and references, and we really don't do that oh does Christoph want to say something In any case He's on his way Well, the whole splitting document, I mean we've talked about it a lot, right? And if we look at the two smaller documents, kind of circulated or maybe three the splitting the security concept considerations out in a standalone document, I think, is very useful because it all operates at a higher level abstraction than the nitty grid spec details. That makes a lot of sense but for example, if we actually assume we'd get the best document done in time then doing the entry internationalization separately actually is kind of counter counterproductive because yes, it's a tidy nice little specification, but now I have to read the 800 page one in the nice little small one to actually understand what's going on And this is kind of big part of the whole split it up theory It needs to have reasonable boundaries and not whenever we need to do the change, it's just documented So until we have that same split, which honestly might be never not sure what's going to happen Well, I don't either, but but thanks for those comments but anyway, again back to the slides, which, okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:00",
    "text": "Hey, Dave, can I introduce? interject? And Zahed, you might have some familiarity. Do you know what? the SIP I mean SIP suffered this problem badly And I don't know, there was a plan to try you know almost give the reader's guide to SIP specs. Because there was like a hundred of them Do you know how or should the chairs take? a note to try and look at what SIP did in that case? Thank you chair's force the AD to dig through his memory and go to the mic Doing technical work. Yeah, I mean this is, I mean, you can, you don't need to go to C SIP. You can, you can think about, like, like, whatever Tisi and stuff like that. And there you have, a couple of, like, document that's actually telling you what RTP2OG topology is like it's listing all the things that are has done so that somebody can just read that document and actually understand the terminology and all these things and how they are related to a particular conferencing system, for example So definitely, I mean, you can have those kind of things What I'm not sure is like how capable this would be for because I think the versions are quite different It's not like an version 4.0 and 4.1 is a little bit incremental thing it almost feels like completely different protocol. So in that case, I don't know like how this would be helped helpful We should have just called that 4.1 and different thing so so I mean this I understand"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "like, I don't understand like that I really appreciate here that what Dave is trying to do that's a tough job and now don't know like I have a better solution than I think you've got can have a look at it like whether this makes sense for you like the implementers of the protocols It doesn't make sense to you to actually have such a document to actually guide you? I mean, if you were saying like not only new implementers are coming to the, then they will be actually get benefit. But if you are already seasoned, you know where to look at, this might be too much Yeah. Brian? So the documents split that they'd implement was very strongly requested by the former ADs and other people within the IETF They wanted smaller chunks to swallow of our work than massive documents because, and I think this has been playing out well is that there is a person in the IAT who is an expert on internationalization and we need feedback on that one area and we were able to give them a document to feedback on, and they did. There are specific security expertise in the IETF. They don't need to know all the details of NFS version 4. They don't need to plow through that. They would prefer a concise document describing the security concerns and the security implementation definitions within the document Now, I understand what problem we just created, but we made a decision to do this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "and I don't want to unwind this decision personally just to have everybody ask for it again two years from now Okay, this was not, this was not led by the NFS working group. This was requested by the powers that So chair and the co-chair are nodding in agreement makes sense, you know, the history is enlightening and, yeah yeah Putting the genie back in the bottle would be hard, and then we'd be asked to let it out again so thank you Christoph? Yeah, I mean, I was going to say something pretty similar from a different angle right I mean, these little documents for the implement they're actually kind of painful, but they are improving the IABF process a lot That's why the ADs agreed on it And maybe that was what was needed and to make progress on this in the IETF even if it's an inconvenience to the implementers, but that doesn't really address the thing that despite these documents, we still will have a monster document with the 56-61-62 biz document and get into all these pain points too So I don't know, do we need to split this further on an actual technical boundary? or do we get to through with the Monster Document once more and hope it's the last? time? I don't know what the answer is Okay, let me let me respond to that. So I think if the powers the B wants this, we need some support And one of the things, support that we would need to do this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "into a like, into like set of like documents of a hundred or 150 pages would be better support for inter-document reference references It's just that would be what I have to say That would be a requirement to do that if we want to Yeah. So to be clear here from a yeah, I don't know if I guess this chair comments, I've had conversations with some IESG members and about what it would take for these documents to move and you know the commentary that I've had in my look through the document is if we split them up would they all be code codependent? And if they're all codependent, and all we do is cross-reference one another then they still have to move through at the one time and it does nothing for IESG and other IETF review processes other than potentially add more boilerplate and other you know, mass to the document even if they don't necessarily have to read that in detail it's still there. However, the volume of these documents is still pretty overwhelming, considering the telechat review size and yeah this would be multiple telechat reviews that just yeah right so as as ahead is commenting one of our documents is actually more than is handled in a single it would take two telechat review to cover one of these documents. It's a real problem And like I said, I've had some conversations with IES members about you know we're open for suggestions, but we really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:00",
    "text": "the working group doesn't really have a good answer as to how to make it easily manageable I also think that we're not necessarily within the next say six months or what have you have solved of as to how to make it easily manageable. I also think that we're not necessarily within the next, say, six months or what have you of having something that we would want to move forward And so I would want to tighten up the document before we could, as a chair, I would want to tighten up them material some before we tried to figure out what the solution to it is Zad, go ahead. So, yeah, I mean, I mean so if you're, if you're creating, like, even if you're creating, you're creating like creating like like 300 four hundred page each this is going to not going to solve the problem, right? So also, like, 800 phase, like, is impossible to read and stuff like that. So even if we will have a we have a boilerplate and all these things, like there is over it involved, you might actually want to split it in multiple documents, but that point of view. But I would like to impair the working out to make a decision. It is will come, it is really good you guys will be working with this document and i don't think like this is a healthy discussion to have like every time it comes up, we discuss the same thing So why don't we just, you guys just have a pool, decide on one of the working group confirming the mailing group and I'll just check whether the decision you're making is making the IETF process right or wrong rather than you or asking me or any other area because what do we do? I mean, this discussion I'm not really understanding that much. We have been discussing. I mean, this, this, this I had like four times per year So I think this is a time have been discussing. I mean, this discussion I had like four times per year. So I think this is the time, as Eddie, I'm giving you a power to run a pool for What to do? Make a decision. Stick to it. I'll tell the IG like if this makes sense or not And I'd like to set up a more fulsome conversation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:01",
    "text": "on the list before I ask any kind of detailed questions So I don't have the right questions as a chair to ask at this moment until we, until we into that problem Yeah Brian? yeah um did that problem. Yeah. I actually I actually we are where we are and it would just add a pile of work to rebirth direction. I have seen again I'm just going to say, I've seen the split work to our advantage in conversations within the IETF. The refrain no offense attended to anyone the refrain from a lot of previous reviews was I don't understand anything about file system I just need to know about the security stuff right? That's all I have to look at And I think this split accomplishes it, but I want to set a milestone Chris, for six months out to ask ourselves whether we've done a sufficient editing job to reduce duplicate material and do the cross-references correctly, as Dave says, clear and make sure that we're not duplicating stuff and that the split is total no more than a single document would be okay so you could write that however you want. I do think we need to do a fierce edit Okay, Christoph? Yeah, so I don't think there's much disagreement to the security split because that works out very well. But to look at the other doc"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:00",
    "text": "document where this is kind of acute right now is the internationalization long, which in this shade should be really nicely reviewable for it internationalization experts, and that's a good thing But if we do the 56, 6.6 BIS, we basically need to roll it back into because it contains normative behavior that's really deep to the internals of the product and explanations of code points We can't just keep that separate. That doesn't make sense So we basically put it out so it passes IETF for you, which is good. That needs to happen just to roll it back in, which probably isn't too horrible, but it's David? So I wanted to offer some clarifications about IETF process. We need to discuss IESG review from publication. When you've got a bunch of interdependent documents, provided that each talk is at least internally self-confident and I'll defer to Christoph's argument, that we have a hard time doing that, you can pass them through last call and the IESG separately The place with interdependencies come home to Roost is when the RFC editor goes to publish them Now, in that regard, this is unlikely to be able to set a record. I think the record is held by the infamous WebRT tarball if I've forgotten how many drafts So it, so is leverage available both for expert review and for spacing out how much has to go through the IIESG in in lump from splitting up documents but the place where dependencies come back is when the RFCs need to be published by the RFC editor"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:00",
    "text": "editor Jahead again, again, David, we're right. I mean, we can create clusters And in that cluster, the document move like differently. So, so that's why I'm saying I'm telling this working group, make a decision, and as long as I'm I'll make it work but I I'm saying I'm telling this working group make a decision and as long as I'm I'll make it work but I'm not I'm not seeing decision on make So split it, all right one document do it I mean there is I mean you can write one document like a thousand page and we can split it later on. I mean, and run it differently, but I want this work to be done And please, please, don't put everything on a single editor Don't do that. Got it. Because this is not going to work then anyway You might, if you split it up, put different editors in the driving phase so that it actually can propagate in the in the in the in the driving phase so that it actually can propagate because if everything falls back to one editor so what's the point of splitting up? Because he or she cannot really write three, like drafts at the same time So think about those kind of things and make a decision So we're over time. I appreciate it everyone sticking with us Dave, I'm going to give you at least a moment for anyone who willing to listen uh to kind of wrap up. Okay Well, I don't think it makes sense to go through the remain nine slides, but I think people should like to them later. There will be on the web. All right, okay. Now, keep going down Dave. Don't. Okay. Anyway, all right here's the document. Summary the document status okay back one slide No, no, Dave, I'm just browsing through I just have to read the chair slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:06:00",
    "text": "Time is over. So anything you want to say other than people should look through the slides That's really it. So I think, I think uh, I notice and I think we need to uh make some decisions by by the next work to have discussion on the list and make some more decisions if we can at the next interim meeting Okay, thank you everyone One more session left in your IETF, or, you know, go and Vancouver, and safe travels home, everybody for everyone to travel. Thank you you"
  }
]
