[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:41",
    "text": "Welcome, everyone. We seem to be at the bottom of the hour here, just, give us a moment sorting out a slide problem here. Yes. TTL"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:31",
    "text": "Okay. There we go. You got our slides up on the screen there. So this is, registration extension protocols extensions. At IETF 119. Antoine. My co chair is here with us. He is remote. And just confirming, Antoine, you're ready to go. I'm ready to go, Jim. It's a little bit early here or the night but Ready to go. Okay. So I will, pick up and work us through here. And then Antoine and I will share this as we normally do. And moving on to the next slide. Okay. So the usual note well I'm sure that we've all seen this many times already. If you've been here at the IETF, and, of course, this is standard, statement. You do need to be concerned that any contributions and words that you speak here in the IETF are considered know, part of the IETF process. And you should evaluate this on your terms with your own own legal advice as you see fit. Moving on to The next slide here, just a reminder, You know, we are we we focus on technical issues here, and it's important that we all do our best to keep our personalities, out of what we do and how we contribute here."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "So this is hopefully just a reminder and not a a statement that, you need be to attend to here. And then, of course, code of conduct guidelines continuing in all of that. Right? It really is about just treating each other with respect, and focusing on the engineering elements when you want to have something to say, something that you wanna do. So please keep this in mind of the microphone as well as the mailing list. And with that, Let's move on to our agenda here. Our agenda is pretty proforma. These are the major sections. This is how we typically do things in this working group. You know, hopefully you've had a chance to look at the chair slides in detail. Any questions or agenda bashing here from anyone about anything and I'm not seeing any hands anywhere. So we shall move on and assume that this is what we want. And we'll jump right into welcoming introductions, which we're kind of already doing on We will, as we have done in the past, we don't really seek to have a notes scribe per se. Although we do welcome anyone who goes into Notepad and adds, items to the agenda, which is usually preloaded there. What Antoine and I have done in the past is just grab the transcript and load that up as the minutes. And that seems to be working for the moment. We've already done the note well in a document management You know, we're a pretty small group. We have a even, smaller select group of people who tend to be very active and pay attention most things going on here. So it's always a challenge for us to make sure that we have a document editor Clement Shepherd, and, of course, it's often hard to make sure we get enough reviewers to pay attention to all the work, So Just a reminder, you know, please contribute where you can and, you know, even if that's just reviewing things, it's always good to acknowledge that you've reviewed something, something, We do look for plus ones in the mailing list when it comes to last call and elements."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:03",
    "text": "And, you know, although we're aware that can be hard to get, you know, please do. Do your part to to acknowledge that you're there. Okay. Moving on, we'll quickly get to published documents here. Because sadly, there are none yet. We have a number that are in the ISGQ, which are, imminent. And, happened for a while. In fact, there are several that are in the RFC editor queue. So we're in a pretty good place as far as that's concerned in terms of documents that we've gotten off are off our working group milestone list. At that are very close to, being published just working out some final details. With the RFC editor. So the reverse search capabilities A document titled that I personally have never really liked. But it basically just adds a more full featured searching method to RDAAP. The federated open ID, proposal This is just about getting authenticated queries in our app, being able to do that and support it. And then, of course, the redacted fields in RDEB an important feature, functionality that our DAP needs. In order to support various, privacy regulations around the world. So we just need an ability to be able to redact things, as appropriate. So documents which have been submitted to the ISG. There's really only one gonna take an extra minute here to talk about this document, the internationalized email addresses. And I'll apologize first in advance to my co chair who, is not fully up to speed on all this. Some things have happened while we've been here. At this IETF meeting, and and Anton and I have not had a chance to connect. So this document has kind of been here It is in the ISGQ. It has been in the ISGQ. For quite some time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "we've been in the background. There've been a few of us who've been going back and forth. With the art directorate. In terms of their evaluation of what this document means to email support and the email application service itself. And the interactions that this particular extension has with that There was also a, recent issue that came up with questioning And I'll admit that I'm the one who actually brought it up kind of a a late breaking nominally technical question with, The status of this document in particular with the broader EPP protocol. And that's because this document actually specifies changing a global setting in APP So, therefore, it's now no longer all by itself and independent extension it has impacts on other parts of EPP should you implement this? We believe we have an answer to all of that, and we can satisfy all of that. We kind of got that resolved I won't spend time going through the technical details now, but if anyone is interested, you know, please do reach out and and ask all of this whole you know, come together and be seen by the working group before the ISG our area directors, approve the document. So you'll get to see it. There'll be some changes to the document that have to happen We don't believe those of us who are actively trying to to get this through and be responsive to the art director comments. Don't believe that changes we're gonna propose are material, but, of course, the working group will get its chance to say what it thinks, we will, make all of that visible on the mailing list. Prior to giving the, area directors an opportunity to respond and confirm that it it meets their requirements in terms of the, directorate comments that need to be addressed. And then, hopefully,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "ideally, this document will go forward. So just a little bit of, details in the background here that have to get resolved. And, it's kind of unfortunate. But you know, in this group, we have such a small group and such a small number of people who pay attention to some of the deep details here that you know, that's just I don't know. Get stuck in this right stuck in this place every once in a while. But I think it'll be okay. Documents's gonna move forward. I think we're fine. At least, my opinion about those of us in the background who've been paying attention to it, I think we've all come to an alignment And now we just need to see the actual text words make sure that everyone likes them, and then we should be able to move forward. So, No fundamental changes to what's there. Just trying to make sure clarity is present. Let me just pause there for a moment, see if anyone to ask anything in particular right now, And otherwise, hopefully, we'll have some time at the end too. We can dig in some more to, of this question in the chat. Thank you for that. No. It's actually not about universal acceptance on the ICANN side. George Michaelson asks in the chat, would he say that, the interest for ICANN compliance because of universal acceptance I mean, I imagine that they might have an interest But the details of why this document is not moving forward is not because of that. It really is because of the interaction of this extension and what it does to email addresses and EPP and storage in a registration database how that impacts mail services. And, app. SMTP Services. And just trying to make sure that we've covered, all sides of all of that thank you for the question. Okay. With that. Let's move on again here."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:04",
    "text": "And now we'll talk about documents that are a past working group last call. We have one document right now. We are waiting for shepherd right up here on this document. I'm just calling that out and mentioning that there isn't really anything else to say there. I believe everything is satisfied. So as soon as we get that, we can submit that into the, IESG. It'll be yet another milestone off our list, and that's a good thing. Because we have plenty of new work to get into here. And some existing documents that are currently on our agenda. So with that, we are gonna move into talking about existing work and I will now pause for one moment. Make sure there's no hands come up in the queue. Nobody has anything up to this point. Okay. All of that's just administrative stuff, and I will and this off to Antoine to take us through the existing work. Over to you. K. Thank you, Jim. Then I will put up Gavin's slides first, which He's, he's going to talk about this CTO values. Let's see if I have the correct slides. Oh, I'm doing something wrong here. You have the slides, Jim, can you put the slides up for Gavin? Here we go. I think I have them Oh, wait a minute. These are the slides. Okay. I'll work the slides Okay. Thank you, Jim and Antoine. So hello everyone. Good evening from, from UK. Good morning to all of you. No coffee for me. I'm I'm on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "I'm having tea. So, first thing I want talk about the during this meeting is the, EPP extension for DNSTL quotes. And hopefully this will be a, a short talk. So if you could move on to the next slide, please. For those who aren't familiar with this, extension, it, allows an EPP client to specify TTR values for the DNS records that live above the zone cut. So NS records, DS records. DNames, if there are, an ID and variants that provisioned as as aliases. And for name servers, the glue record today at better working group document for just over a year. And is slated for publishing publication as an RFC in May. Next slide, please. So there has been, a few iterations since last spoke about this dropped. The the main one that's happened since Prague was changed to the way that the info command works. Previously, the way the info command work was you could a client that that that send an info command for an object. If it didn't if it specified the extension in the, login command, then the server would send back all of the TTL information. So it's quite noisy. And would send information back without without the client specifically asking for it. And that's changed so that the, the the server now doesn't send anything back unless the info command has been extended with a detailed info element. And that has a policy attribute that could be used to, make the response more for those So by default, it will just include, TTL records for direct DNS types with non default values. But if the policy attributes true, then it includes, TTL records for or elements I should say for, all DNS, record types and there's a there's an area in that slide down"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "that second bullet point. And it also includes the policy. So it includes feed record type, the minimum, default and maximum values. For the, the TTL for that particular DNS record type. So that's obviously, something that was suggested by Jim Gordon on on the on the mailing list. That was discussed there at Mainlist, and I have a version of the, the, the extension, the draft to ready to publish that that that will go, as soon as I'm able to. And, with that, if you'll be on to the next slide, I pretty much feel that this this this document is done. So would would like enough to to give people opportunity to to to raise any comments that they happen now. Otherwise, I'll be asking for a last call, fairly soon. And that's it. Okay. Thank you, Gavin. Any questions for Gavin? Simply missing my queue, but we received that. Yeah. There it is. Okay. If not, then thank you, Gavin. You. And, yes, you can put up the slide for adjusted for geofeed Hello. I'm Justeep. Hello. Yes. Yep. Slides getting up. And, yeah, it was wet. So Antoine and I, we were negotiating the time. So we initially had 10 minutes, but now we have 6. So I'll move fast to it. So I think this is essentially"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "the update on the RDEB extension for GEO feed data, what we have done since, prod. Next slide, please. So, just to jog our memory, this is how it was earlier. Where we had this geo feed 1 extension and, atgeofeedone_geofeedmember And it was essentially, a string URI member. Next slide, please. But now, thanks to, Kevin Brown's input, at the last frog, and I think we all concluded it was a great idea to introduce, this semantic as a web link in our dev. And so now, the draft has been updated, with a geofeedlink member. And a very slight change where the extension is now called Geo Feed 1 instead of geofee. We won And so here is essentially all the changes. As we all know about the web link structure, And the benefit of it is that for now, it is in the CSV format. But in the future, you may be able to define other formats. So, we introduce a new geofeedlink, member where the link, the context is obviously the IP network you're talking about, which is the value as you can see in the example, The relation type is Geo. This is a new, relation type we are introducing. At relation date is essentially saying that when you go from the link context to the link target, you'll find a resource with Geo ge geographic information. And as you notice, it's not the type geo, not geofeed. And if you study web linking, RFC essentially, it recommends that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "pick your scope of your relation type. To be not too specific, if that makes sense. So Tom and Ivy stuck with this. For now. So this will get registered. Then, obviously, the HRF is the link to the geofeed CSV file. It is, supposed to be over HTTPS. And, It's a CSV file with RPqi signature. Concept, which is, of in constant as, a a a comment. Finally, the type of this, the media type, it's application/geofeedpluscsv. So this is new. And and, Next slide, please. So I've already talked about the first three bullets here. The last bullet is interesting. Because now, tech CSV media type, allows, comments. In fact, it defines it. But, Tom and I, we debated with some other folks also And the conclusion was that although the CSV geofeed data could be directly viewed by a user. The most common use case will involve it being processed by some sort of application first. And that makes sense because, because you're looking at those, geofeed, data, which is generally in the form of prefix and then the geoinformation on each line. And then the RPK signature. The idea is that since application is gonna touch it, it it makes to introduce a new media type under application, top level. And for for now, obviously, it is geo feed as a subtype And, CSV is the structured syntax suffix."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "And fortunately, we have Marie in the room, and I was seeing that he's one of the experts listed on the media type registry. So I think that's those are the salient changes we have. Good news about this, which I don't have on the slide, the RFC 902, 9092 based authors, have now included this draft as a reference. In their draft. And their draft, if I'm not mistaken, is now in the RFCQ. So that's a good news. Because we have socialized this with, Randy Bush and other that Warren, commodity and others, all in all, I think moving the right direction. Next slide, please. These are just, couple of references to the RFC 9092 biz. And and and our work one last comment, Jim Gold. James Gold gave some really good feedback today morning. So we will, and I think it makes a lot of sense. Some of the points is making there. So we'll reply to it in interest of time because I have 6 minutes. On the list itself. So so with that, I conclude the talk. Thank you, is that you have some more time. Oh, Sorry. My monitor is suddenly Filling. Looks I'm back. Okay. Yes. So, any questions for Jesse, because we have a few more minutes I think Scott's entered the queue. Hello, Scott. Go ahead. Thank you, Anton. Scott Hollandbeck. Jesse, if I just took a quick look at the Diana consideration section of the draft, of suggestion. Include the URL for the registries in which you are requesting the addition of new values"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "That'll just make Ayanna's job a little bit easier in the future. So you say if you're very specific about which registry you're, you're requesting an addition to instead of just describing it as text. Thank you. That's a great suggestion. X Okay. Thank you. And then I have a question for you as well, Jasmine. I think one of remarks of James was also that you're focusing very much on registration of R AR, objects. So, basically, IP addresses where the GEO feed might also be, you know, of interest to domain registries or perhaps even registries or whatever other sorts of registry. I think that that will be a very good suggestion. What are your thoughts about that? Do you need any help with that? Right. That, yeah, that that's a very interesting idea And, my preliminary thoughts, and, Tom, please jump in. If at some point you need to is that geofeed has IP semantics. If you think about it, right, as explained. So the safest bet was hey, just go with the evolving the IP network object class. Right? But as long as that Those kind of objects can be included in other objects. We have example of that, right, where, for instance, for entities, when you have orgs not mistaken, you can include IP update. So, yeah, we can give some more thought to it because but the inherent semantics of geofeed is all as I said, prefix, geofreed information, then RPK is signature for it. It all smells network. But to your point, it doesn't stop us Antoine from aggregating it in other object classes as long as they allow IP network object class, if I'm making sense. The my concern was more that, you know, you're talking RPKI matures, which is basically eat, eat,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "encryption for IP address is mostly, right, and IPN and and RER objects. We don't have something similar perhaps in other DNS or, Yeah. And and entities that you want to get a geo feed extension. Right. So so this is quite closely tied to Right. RFC 9092 biz. So that's the point of it. Because the ID initiated, from, those guys because in absence of any, as I've mentioned last name, structure, a purpose field or structure for this, they would like to shove it into remarks. And and so now we have this. So yeah, that's for now, where our current thinking, is, but we can certainly discuss this on the meeting list. So let's discuss this on the mailing list. Thank you very much. I see James Gould in the queue. He's next Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. Great. Yeah, I found the form of extension, the very interest thing. And so this form of extension we may wanna include in the RDEB extensions draft. Along with other, forms So as we go through that, something to consider. Yeah, James. That was a very insightful feedback along with few others. Yes. I noticed that we have an extensions draft just 30 seconds, something called bare extensions, marker extensions, profile extensions, but you're spot on. It doesn't fit any of that. So maybe, Andy, Tom and I will Look at this. What kind of genre this fits into? But thank you for that insight. Antoine, we don't hear you. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "Sorry. Thank you, Jesse. No more no not anybody in left in the queue. So, Jim, if you can go back to the slide here, Care slides. Sorry. And before we go back to the share a slide. We have Murray in the queue. Just real quick. Just real quick. Close the loop on the AA document. Am I returning that to you? No. That's not the expectation. The the the way I understood our discussion yesterday is It's in your queue. And you have pending comments from the art directorate. Yep. That the working group needs well, the document author needs to be responsive to. And so that's what we're gonna do is we will provide a revised document that is responsive to those comments and then it will be up to you as to to how you wanna go forward. Okay. I'll wait then. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. If you can go to, yeah, this one. I think we forgot this one on the agenda, Jim. I thought you would you would do it. So we have another document in Oh, Go back to 5, Jim. I am No. This is where we are. Right? Yep. I I think I think we forgot 5, didn't we? No. Okay. Because I just wanted to say that for the, for the RAR documents, that's probably going to come back to the working group for another working group last call that was confirmed to me by the authors So I just wanted to, to mention that Okay. Yeah. Because what I said was we were waiting for the document shepherd write up. So you've been following that one Okay. So that's Yes. Exactly. That's why I I wanted to make that moment, right, that the the the authors will produce another version of the documents"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "and it will come back into the working group for the working group last school. And this is a reminder again to everybody that you know, We should read you a document before they go into work and goograft call because when you want to make changes during working in the last call, when you're going to review them in working group last call, we may need to take them back and do another work in Google apps call because we expect documents to be stable during the last call. Okay. Then we go to item 7 and then I hand it over back to Eugene. Yes. So, So this is the next thing. RDA versioning extensions discussion. We have noted this on the mailing list a few times. We, unfortunately, missed an opportunity to schedule an inter meeting we had in Prague said that we would try to have an interim meeting in January to move this forward we kind of missed the opportunity to make all that happen. So, know, we still need to make that happen and resolve what it is we want to do here. So the plan here at the moment is that we will schedule a meeting in April have an inter meeting, but we wanted to kick off the discussion here today, have some discussion about this and really we have, you know, 22 questions in front of us. And I'm hoping that we can get some consensus on the answer to question 1 here today or at least a guiding direction for what we're doing. And that is asking the question. What problem were you really trying to solve here? Know, and what contribution do each of these documents make? That's kind of getting into the technical details of the document. If we can come to some consensus here, about what problem we're trying to solve with these three documents. And then we'll know what to focus on as we move into an inter meeting where we can focus on just having a detailed discussion just having a technical discussion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "about how each of these documents do or don't solve that particular question. I think that This is really an open discussion opportunity. I'll sort of lay this out in in, you know, the way that, it exists for me, okay, as something for us to talk about looking at this slide here. If you have a copy of the chair slides, this, this particular slide is new it was added, just this morning to the the chair slide deck. So if you're looking at the chair slide deck, on your own local machine, you won't see this particular slide. But there is kind of a larger question here, And and it's interesting even with you're looking at the geo feed, we were having a bit of discussion about, you know, what does the extension really look like, what is the RDAP extension. Like. And, you know, jazzed if it made some changes based on some suggestions. And you know, it really is a just a bit concerning that we have these 3 documents, which really do appear to be related in terms of discussing versioning and extension issues in RDEB. And they they don't fully cross reference each other. Right. A couple of them do reference the other 2. But, you know, one of them doesn't, in particular, So if we're gonna have these 3 documents and they do sort of touch on the same kind of space, this versioning question in RDEB this extension's question, the versioning of extensions, It just feels like these documents really do need to be very clear about how they relate to each other or not. And what is their individual role in the space? So that's really what motivates this idea that, you know, what is the problem we're trying to solve? Are we trying to solve a versioning problem? In our DAP and or and or in our DAP extensions, And one of the documents in particular is intended to provide some guidance about RDAP extensions, and yet we have this media type extension document, which also sort of adds to all of that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "K? So this is what's motivating from a chair's point of view. Question about what are we doing here and what do we wanna do with these 3 documents? Now the working group has adopted these 3 documents but we took them on with the, premise that We haven't defined a milestone for these 3 documents. So that's the purpose of the discussion that we would have in the interim meeting. If we can get some guidance here, some consensus here on the problem we're trying to solve, then we will dig in during our interim meeting and actually confirm that, okay. We can solve problem. These three documents are all, informative to whichever problem we're trying to solve. Versioning and extensions, maybe 2 documents, it may be one document. We're not even pre supposing any of that. Just an observation that, you know, those 2 sets of issues are related across three documents. One thing we do want to be careful about, though, is We only want 1 standard. So To the extent that these things are related and or overlap, have to sort that out and break it down Because from a working group point of view, we should have one document which describes whatever problem we're trying to solve. And if there's any other alternate solutions to that problem, then those documents should be experimental. Not trying to block the publication of something that's interesting and useful. Let's make a decision about what we want from an interoperability point of view. So that, you know, we know that things are going to work going forward. And so that becomes an important part of how we evaluate these 3 documents. Towards whatever solution we decide you know, we're we're going to, we're gonna be seeking So Question to the group. And we can have whatever discussion we wanna have here, you know, what problem are we trying to solve? What are we trying to get to? So that we can properly evaluate these documents as a group, you know, come to some consensus. And I see Jim in the queue there, so that's perfect. Jim, please go ahead."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "Yeah. I is pretty clear to me that they're solving different problems, but, hopefully, I'll be able to communicate why I feel that way. The first with the art app extensions, I I do that as a broader, problem I see that as provided and clarification. Guidance related to the building of art app extensions, and it It kind of correlates to the guidelines for EPP extensions Scott's RRC 3735. So for example, the question I just asked about the Geo extension I believe that former extent extension should be outlined defined within the RDAF extensions draft. So I see it as being broader. As far as the versioning extension, that's, focus strictly on versioning. We recover, opaque version as as well as semantic versioning, in ex in an accessible set of versioning that could be defined in the future. And pretty much One of the aspects of the versioning extension is the ability for the client to specify what they want to be included in the response. What we had in there were the query these are query parameters. And it winds up with the media extension provides another form that could provide the client preference as well. So that's why we added a reference, to that draft from the the version draft. I see the media type extension is is more specialized. And getting past the, the folder concern that's been brought up on the list. So, I'll leave it at that. Thank you, Jim. That was very clear. Certainly that, all resonated with me But I am really looking for, you know, again, working group consensus on that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "point. And I see Andy's got in the queue, and, of course, he is all through on couple of those documents too. So, Andy, please go ahead. Yeah. So, I wanna agree with what, Jim just said, and I think the, I I do believe all 3 of the drafts reference each other in in some way. So they so they do they do all each one of them is kind of solving a different aspect of some of the same problems. The, I don't think, we're we help ourselves by breaking by by trying to validate these drafts into into one document either because they all do they all do break away a specific part of the problem. And solve it, but they they they do interrelate when they do that. So I don't think we need to to try to consolidate the documents at all. Yeah, that's that's really all I have to say Okay. So I think Would have heard here at least from the two of you is that, It is appropriate to have all three of these documents existing. That they don't need to be brought together. You know, it may be that I'm the only one who has questions about all of this. And if that's true, then, you know, I'll just have to sort that out for myself. But, I have to admit that, you know, I I I really was kind of taken by these documents. I I'm not feeling I'm not seeing the clarity that the two of you represent. In these three documents. And so maybe this is just a discussion about, some editorial exercise to make it more clear what's going on. That's from my point of view. I really would appreciate some other words from others in the working group. Would appreciate some other voices, someone else to look at these 3 documents, and and know, decide, make a decision, have an opinion about what you think about, how they work together were not. And and if all of this is clear, and now I see we've got a little bit more of a queue going here. So Antoine, please go ahead."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:05",
    "text": "Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. You know, I understand that that that both the authors, of course, are very clear about what what they want. They're very into the material. They're very specialized, but I didn't hear anybody say yet What? Problem we're go we we're trying to solve yes, there are 3 distinct documents. But what what is the problem that we're trying to solve? That I I didn't hear hear that question answered yet. So that was just just like Eugene I don't have it clear in my head yet. So that's just a remake remark for me. And then we go to the Next one is the queue, James. Yeah. Let me just say, you know, thank you, Antoine, for bringing us back to, the starting point here, you're absolutely right. Jim Gould. Go ahead, please. Well, I was gonna get the floor to Rick since he's at the mic. I can come after him. Okay. Go ahead, Rick. Thanks, Rick Wilhoem, PIR. So, I've I've spent some time with these three documents on the long flight from the states. And I I actually have been following the versioning thing when we were bickering about it, over the past 8 months or so. And I I thought that these documents did kind of separate the concerns pretty helpfully. And, I was glad to see the 3 documents emerge. I do think that we need more specification around RDEB extensions. Because, well, I think that EPP extensions we the community has had a lot of experience with those over the year. Over the years. I think that art app extensions are relatively untroturf, compared to EPP extensions. And I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "that they're we are now as our DAP is gaining we're gaining more experience, operational experience at RDEB. We need to get good and fluid and simple. Get make RDAP extensions a simple thing for us to do. And a big part of that is making sure that this versioning stuff works cleanly. It the RDEB had a an an a, I'll say, an unfortunately long time between specification and wide deployment. And then now that it is in in in really wide deployment, the versioning thing, the, the extension thing is coming at us hard and fast. And getting the this versioning stuff tight will benefit everybody. So I think that this this getting these these throu these documents and this specification clean would be helpful to implementers. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Jim, do you wanna take the others just to get some other new voices in, just let you be in the queue. You can go last. We've got, owl next, and then Scott Or do you wanna jump in here? If I can jump in and just follow-up on Rick, I'll be very quick. Pretty much, the way I I view it is that, tweaks need to be made. But I believe on the art app extension of to Broadmit, and then have the version and the media x grasp be closer aligned but they're just tweaks. So I'll I'll leave it at that. That's Okay. Thank you. Hello? Yes. So, I think look at these three documents. So the extensions document seems to address a specific problem what we had in the past of, difficulties, how to, express extensions and the properties and and and the lives. And so the the other 2 documents. So versioning is also this thing, and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "adding a version component, which was kind of missing so far in the earth. And they adopt this overlap will versioning when it comes to requesting the client preference And I think there's the part of it where I would like to see some clarity, from the discussion here which way we go because this, exactly the point where where we have overlap between the two to go to two documents. Great. Thank you, pal. Appreciate that, Scott. Scott Hollandbeck. I I mean, I have to echo some of what Rick said here. I think the the biggest issue that is that we do not have a 3735 corollary for RDAU. We don't have something that provides us with guidelines for how to extend our DAP. And, that will lead to some discussion of the topics that are found in the other two drafts. So whether they ultimately merge into one document or if they stay separated 3 I am less concerned about. But I absolutely believe that we need something like 3735 for order. Okay. Excellent. Thank you Scott, Antoine. Please go ahead. Yeah. the the the the scope basically The got the words out of my mind. I I want to remind everybody that when we look in our charter, we have this registry of EBP extensions where, you know, the goal of our working group was to basically merge, propriety extensions into one common standard that that was basically the goal in our charter when we did when we did, regex and when we did EPP, extensions. And and and we don't have that yet. For audit at least it is not clearly specified that the goal of, you know, creating art of extensions is you know, to create one one standard extensions in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "if we start standard extension, if we can Instead of, you know, getting a as many art of extensions as possible. And I think that's the direction where we want to go is something should really be carefully looking at that we that should be a goal for Arnap as well. You, Antoine. Very much. I agree. And, Next up, we have, Jastif, please. Hi. Just the So, yeah, I agree with the most of the comments made so far. Clearly, extensions draft is pretty That's a pretty, very defined problem space, because as our debt matures operationally, There have been questions, and we end up wasting time Sometimes, I think that'd be a very useful contribution, that but in terms of clarifying extensions, right, as far worsening and, the media x, type. Yeah. It looks like they may have some, sort of crossover But I think James put it well where Wushing is the the pinpoint what it solved was to start with was structured worsening, And then, taking it further to be able to exchange metadata about various types of versions. So I think that's a very useful exomatic contribution, And the draft on media x I think, that also came out That whole discussion 3rd But the observation was that we were starting to introduce different ways of negotiating content. /extensions, and we can you can pass the these words further. And and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "There existed a good way to do it, through HTTP already. And so I think that was an insight it's a low cost solution to negotiate content as is generally done for any other HTD application. So I think each of these have very defined exams. So say? That I personally would be comfortable as Andy said to keep them Separate, maybe clarify the problems made statements some more. Okay. you. Thank That ends our queue. Let me, Try to express back what I believe I've heard and see if anyone wants to jump up and clarify that. So in terms of what problem are we trying to solve, I believe I heard several people speak to the fact that having clarity with respect to versioning and clarity with respect to extension guidelines would be a good thing. And it seems like Probably those are 2 separate documents, but we don't have to make that decision today. At least those two questions appear to be agreement that we should make sure we have clarity on those points. I think it was Rick who first said that you know, our DAP is now becoming widely operational. So, you know, these are issues which are now coming at us hard and fast. We've seen because there's already a number of, opportunities to extend our DAP So we should get some clarity on these points and do that. Haven't heard anyone suggest that either one of those documents is way out of line. So that's a good thing. So maybe if we have a meeting an interim meeting, and we have a technical discussion, we can quickly look through and decide that there really are just some editorial updates you know, maybe semi material updates that we need to make to those documents and we can get ourselves on a good footing with respect to that. So I think it would be good to have ourselves an opportunity to have a technical discussion on those two documents."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:04",
    "text": "And, would really hope that, several people would be able to come and attend not just the document authors. I'll simply take as as an action both his chair and personally to try to run a doodle poll here. Through the working group mailing list. And see that we can find a time and get an hour and and get most people to be there. Or at least a good number of people, see if we can do that. I've not heard much discussion about the media type document, but certainly no one is subjected to it. I'd like to keep in on the list too. So that, you know, we have an opportunity to have a discussion as part of the problem we're trying to solve yes, we need clarity about burgeoning and extensions. I'd like to have some clarity about the relationship of the media type document to these other 2. So I wanna make sure that we get that clarified. Certainly continue to move forward, only one person really seemed to indicate that they thought it, it was I guess it was Jim Gould. Commenting about how, it's a very specialized case of extensions, and it and it can sit by itself. I'm okay with that. If if the no one objects and we get consensus, But let's leave that as a question. We can also hopefully resolve at our inter meeting. Now we've got a little bit of a queue So that's my playback of what I thought I heard. And, comments on that. So, Anton, please, you're up first. Yeah. Listening to people, there's there's one thing I still don't understand from my broad overview. I'm not an implementer. But negotiating media type is that the the question we have to ask ourselves is that it goes or is it something that happens with all that data? After your queries, that is something I still don't get from reading the draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "whether or not that should be an arctic in in arctic or something that's you know, After you get the data, So somebody can make an explanation to that doesn't need to be now, but during the discussion, in the interim meeting or, or perhaps on the mailing list, That's that's a concept I still don't don't get rights. Right? Okay. Yep. Thank you for that question. Certainly a good one. If anyone would like to say something about that, that'd great, but otherwise, let's keep it on the agenda. For the discussion that we'll have at our interim meeting And, Andy, please go ahead. Yeah. I just wanted to answer that question. The the the reason the media type came up was to deal with the fact that if you do support multiple versions of the of an extension, need a way for the client to be able to signal which version they can they can they want as opposed to just sending back everything. So that's that's kind of the point And the other point of it is to not create multiple ways of doing that. Only one way of signaling from the client. What the, what they want the server to send. That's that's the whole point of that. That's content negotiation. So I guess and and I think that a versioning question then instead of a content is that a So all the information is an ex as an extension, when you have an RDEB extension, if you have multiple versions, you can you can be giving back multiple versions of that extension. So this is a way for the client to be able I understand this version or this version or this version. That's the that's the point of it And it's not a version of an extension. It's multiple extensions. just So If you look at one of the examples that we had, was with the different contact types. So if you had the client only understands one type, then the client can signal to the server, which types it understands,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "so you're not sending back data in multiple formats. That makes sense. Yes. But then again, if I want to have specific data format back the formula for it. Isn't it just then a question of, okay, I want to get back version number 3, and that gives me back the the exact media type that I want. Do I understand it wrongly, dear? There's only currently, there's only one media type. So, no, the the the the the way it works is the media type has the new media X type has the extensions encoded in That's the whole point of the of the new media type. Okay. I, I, I have to reread the drop again because I I still I still don't get it. If I'm a client and I want something bad in a specific format, and I signal that to the server, I would expect the server to know, okay, you want this format back. Right? How do you signal? How does the client tell the server that That's the whole point of content negotiation. I would expect that the in in in the version that I understand, probably. The version of the extension, yeah, which you specify in the media type. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I think we're gonna have to take the rest of but I I thank you for that, Andy. I don't I don't claim that I've fully got it in my head, but I think you've clarified at least something for me that the dots are coming together as they say. So we'll see. Can have that discussion come April. Alright. So at least, having a good technical discussion about these documents appears to good thing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "and I'm not seeing any objections. No one is saying no. Jumping down or anything like that. So we'll try to schedule something certainly we'll make sure that, Jim and Andy and the and the other authors are present, and hopefully we'll get a few of us a few others from the working group who have an interest to be there so we can talk through make sure that we all have a clear understanding of the role of each of these documents And, Then we can also set up a milestone date for them as part of our working group, administration, and then we'll move forward from there. K. Any objections to that I think, Andy, that's an old hand. I'm gonna go with that. Alright. With that, then We now move to new work with presentations. And once again, hand this back to, Anton. And, here we are. And let me, get a presentation up for you. Over to you. Yeah. And Like I said, Gavin was a bit late with His slide for this one because he would forgot that he was on the agenda first So I'm trying to refresh the documents in the, meet echo that I just upload it. But I don't see it in there. Can you do it from your Yeah. I now realize, that Gavin had more than one slide deck So even I got Yes. That's said at the beginning of the meeting. Right? why I So, I will Gavin, if you have the slides, you can you can share them. Yeah. I'll I'll present from my side. Yeah. Why don't you go and do that so we can just move forward here and, ahead yeah, We'll all have to catch up on the slide deck later. Okay. So I've just asked to Shall a screen? Might need to give me permission"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "Yes. There we go. K. So, can you see my screen? Can see, Yes. We can. Okay. Great. Great. Thank you. So, yeah, I've got 2 documents that I'm, bringing to the group for for, feedback and consideration. And and, I'll talk a little bit about the sort of status of them as I go. So first one is an extension to RDA The idea behind this is, to basically take the TTL information that the EVP extension puts inside registry systems and makes it visible through are that responses. But it's not dependent on the EPP extension because you could easily imagine 3 operator that doesn't use EPP or doesn't implement this extension. That never nevertheless still wants to make this information available. Through its IDF implementation. So there's no, tight binding between this this this document and the, and the EPP document for TTL values. In terms of why you would want to do this, So the rationale really is the same rationale that we know, the behind why we publish things like NS records and DS records in our It's a useful, site channel that you can use to validate what you're seeing on the wire. So if you're debugging a DNS issue, you can't see, you're seeing something that doesn't look right. You can you can use slide out one who is in the old days, to see what the the registry says should be in the DNS and if you're seeing something wrong or something different, then that helps you to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "by where where a problem might be. And I think this is especially useful if, the TTL extension for EVP becomes used and deployed, because previously, if you're if you're, you know, hacker looking at something and you see you know, you you kind of know in the back of your head, I'll verisignsttlfer.com NS records is always 2 days. But that's not gonna be true anymore. So having a way of verifying what the TTL value should be is gonna become quite important. So what does it look like? So This is an extension to domain and name server, are that requests adds a TTL property to an object that's an array of objects inside those, and I can see I've messed up the JSON in this example. I apologize for that. Events or remarks should be inside that brace, not outside basically, each object has a array of types So to try and, can make the the syntax a bit more concise there. Rather than having one object per DNS record type that collected together into an array of of DNS record types and then a value and to, provide additional information there's optional events and remarks properties for that object so you can as as an add up server implemented, you can say, this is the TTL This is when it was last changed. This is the policy by using remarks and events to to to make that visible in the audit responses. In terms of the kind of life life cycle of this document, I published a 00 I think at the end of last year. But my focus is on the EPP extension. I don't wanna get that done and out out of the door before going any further with this. Looking forward to the next couple of, idea of meetings, I think, Dublin will be a good time for for this to be you know, for me to come to the working group to request the working group options. So I'll I'll be be looking at doing that then."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "So that's the end of the discussion on on my presentation on that this particular document K. I see you have a question. Yeah. Thanks. Question as a as a participant. Shouldn't these, documents, The EPP provisioning of the TTL, and this document for reading the TTL. It just strikes me that doing them as a as a as a pair or at least in parallel would would seem appropriate as opposed to serial. You'd you'd appear to have particular reason for not wanting that. I'm wondering if you could say a little a Thanks. So the the the basic reason why they didn't do them at the same time is because it didn't occur to me too. So I was more focused on the EPP side of things. And and then, you know, it didn't occur to me until afterwards that actually might be useful to also make this something that you could do in our app, But then, as as a as a said on the one of the first slides is that there isn't a tight coupling between these two. And an on app server a a registry operating and adap service. You know, might not use EPP or I might not use EVP extension, but it's much still want to make detailed information available. And so They're I guess there would be a a risk that someone looking at these two That's my assumed that because they were published locks that with each other that they somehow had some dependencies on each and and therefore might deter them from the preventing the ad extension when there is no really no reason why they couldn't if they wanted Okay. Thank you. And next one in the queue is James Gold. James, go ahead. Yeah. I I love the EPP draft, by the way. I've expressed in the son was kind of surprised to see this one. And the reason why was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:03",
    "text": "I thought the TTL would be simple enough for the client to see in DNS in the cost associated with taking the setting data data from the registry database for TTL and replicating that that to our app. Is a lot of cost for from what I would say, little value. Can you you say what the value is? To users. Thank think you. So, I is is is is we we kind of Go I'll go back to to the to the to to the previous slide. If you're and I've been in this myself, and there'll be other people who have been in this situation. When you'll debugging or trying to diagnose something. Registration data service, whether it's IDAC or who is is a good way of sends checking what you're seeing on the wire. So if you're seeing that are are are funky TTL value. And you're trying to work out, is this recursive server? You know, doing something stupid? What's it? What's it? What did what should or something transparent running on the wire and mess around with DNS pack or something. You want to go back to the source of truth So what does the registry actually say? What's the what should be coming out of the registry? And the the same so it's the same rationale that you would have with 4 you know, checking what who is, what, sorry, what aim servers a domain has, or and what the s records, you know, this If if there's no benefit to adding TTR values into our debt, then there's probably no wedding DNS record DS records in but we do. Sign. Yeah. I'll just, respond to that really quick. I'll let Rick take it from there. Yeah, the inclusion of the DS is it's kind of set of bad precedence in my mind. It would be great if we said it was DNS 6 signed. And let the data presented in DNS DNS be the authoritative source But in this case, I guess, They can use EPP."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "So, you know, EVP provides that information. Registrar can provide it to the registry. Well, not every consumer of every consumer of our app is has a has EPP access to our registry system. So that's that's that's that's true if you're a registrar, but it's not true if you're a Joe public. For not somewhere else. Alright. I'll let Rick ask this question. Yep. Go ahead, Greg. Thank you, Rick Wilson, Pierre. So I guess I'm not sure. Why, We would be adding this kind of DNS technical information, into RDEB when we haven't previously done so when know, if you're diagnosing DNS, You typically use dig. Or DNS tools as opposed to Registration Data Tools, and or or DNS Viz or, you know, something else. Like, why are we using the the fact that we're allowing the regis the registrar to provision TTLs that and now starting to let DNS technical information, like TTLs, leak into the RDDS It like, I think that we're were crossing, threshold here with this concept that I don't I think that we need to be taking this more seriously that it's It's more than just parallel, like, making, a parallel edition that, oh, we're provisioning EEP TTLs via EPP. Therefore, we need to expose it by our DAP. I think that that we're now letting DNS data, DNS technical data leak out And I'm I'm that's I'm I'm using that term pejoratively, in order to agitate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:04",
    "text": "people who are likely to be agitated in who may whose caffeine may be running out in whatever time zone they're in, including the local one, Like, why are we doing that? When we don't have other DNS data, like Well, why don't we just add the sowa to the To our gap, Like, why doesn't someone write an EPP extension to have the syllabus blit it out? Of the and I say that with all ridiculousness, right, But, like, So or Can you say that? Well, I mean, in in you're laughing too, Gavin. I say it with love. Right? Because you know, and, But, like, I know that we we did that that this was started because, like, oh, we're doing this thing. So we we wanna make it kind of proceed in parallel, but I think that that I didn't really app apprehend it until I was on the plane, but we know, we, I'm wondering why we wanna do this let this thing leak out this DNS data leak out in our gap. And I'd like Sort of the great and the good to to think about that, because I think we're making a bigger step with this extension than we think we are. Thank you. Okay. So, Richard, do I Andy, do you want to respond to this question. Otherwise, I'll break in briefly. You can go ahead and break in. Okay. Because I I think I have an answer to you, to your question, Rick, and that is that there's quite some data in, in the registration databases. That is basically bootstrap data. And at some point in time, you want to see if the bootstrap data still matches your live DNS data. That is why you can look up which MS records are bootstrapped into DNS. Which d s or d s key records are bootstrapped in the DNS"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "so that When there are mechanisms like the CDS or CDNS key mechanisms can actually compare when are the bootstra data? Is still the current data that might have been updated in DNS So, that that is my thought behind Then Go ahead. Next question. Yeah. So I just wanna wanna say that, I have had on occasion registrars who did not value TTL values that, they they did honor the TTL values that I gave them. And that had I been able to figure out what the registry really had, would have saved me a whole lot of grief. So, So, I believe in the draft itself, Gavin's put in, other mechanisms us to understand when the TTL values have been updated and the policy around the TTL values because some some registrars do not allow certain values be in TTL, and to the but they don't make the end user aware of that. So that's, you know, their customers. So I the this, I do I do believe provides value to end users. I'm having trouble getting my my back. Okay. Jim, your next Yeah. So, As a participant, just speaking here, Well, I I take Rick's point you know, let's let's dig in and sort of approach it from the following place. This is not about confirming DNS in my point of view. This TTL value in particular is subject to registry policy."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "And, you know, registries can do what they want in terms of what they use what they put in the DNS. Another thing that's important is this is a value which in the registry zone in the DNS. And so it's useful to understand what the registry thinks and have a means for doing that. Maybe this is a legacy situation. So, you know, maybe maybe it's time to undo all this, but consider that NS records and DS records, have been visible with who is, and are visible in our app and you get that information back. You know, if you don't wanna have the and from my point of view, those records are things which are in the registry zone file. Regardless of what a registrar or the registrar may or may not have done. Or think they have done And so it's useful to have a means to understand what the registry thinks is the state of the world. We could assume that I could query the DNS and ask the DNS for these things, and we could assume that the, DNS accurately and truthfully represents what the thinks. But I think this is a useful extra mechanism I really don't see a problem with it. From that point of view, even from the historical NS and DS records being there. So for me, you know, being able to query for the TTL values makes sense. And it's aligned with that. Going and asking about the SOA, I realized that Rick was offering that up as as kind of a a a chuckle but there's a clear distinction in my mind because that is purely a DNS thing. Has nothing to do with the registration system, and it in no way is impact by the registration system. So that's obviously something that I wouldn't put in our app. But I do think that the TTL value being there is at least consistent with what we've done historically. If for some reason we don't wanna do the TTL thing, think we should undo the NS and DS records too. That's the place that I would be coming from. Thanks. And gloom. Yeah. Okay. Next is you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "Jim Reed. A lot of gyms in the queues. Yeah. Jimmy, it's as I said before, there are far too many gyms in this working group. Of kind of worried about this. I I can see the value from having both the 3 and the child having the same DNS metadata in terms of in equipment GCLs. But I wonder if this is really a problem that really needs to be solved. I wonder if the costs is worth the benefit All the benefit is worth the cost. It doesn't seem to be something that matters all that much. And I'll just say in passing yourself, you already know We're mumbling about having a new DNS resource record called the deadline records. And we might be all be having a new working group which is going to change a lot of the zone cut semantics So I think maybe that could actually even supersede what we might be wanting chief here. So perhaps by the time This working group has got something out the door on TTL Values is we're going to have another discussion about how to do that on for daylight. So maybe a better to use posit to see what comes out of that. K. Thank you, Jim. Next one, Stephan. My stuff and. Yeah. Just to want to make the point that there is the difference between an SV called DSV called glue on one side on the tier on the other. The first three that we try to be public in add up are very important from a security point of view. It's extremely important to be able to check that they are correct as in the DNS, ins over the streets as well. TTL. Does not raise the same sort of security problems. So you could say that what applied to NSDS on glue may not apply to TTR. They just have fun."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "I agree. Just let you next Hi, Justeep. So, yeah, I think Kevin hit on something very interesting. What is the role of directory services? Especially the line where he had diagnostics debugging So in our app, if if you think about entities, which are generally organizations and points of context Why do you have it? Because you want to reach somebody. Right? And it's a layman who may not know on the wire stuff, be it, DNS, or something else. And and, So I think the and that's why they are associated with network objects and domain objects No. And ASN for now. I think that is a good threshold for the working group to decide what we are precisely doing does it Is that a good value add? For any, this kind of, semantics when we introduced to And, I'm not per se directly a DNS expert right now, but my sense of it is that this is useful. So so at least that's where I leave it. Thanks. Thank you, Joseph. The Post, I was it's next yes, go headways. I think humans, Stephane, are out of the queue yeah, there's a there's a long queue that's old at this point. West Hardaker, USC, ISI, and the ICANN board definitely not speaking for the ICANN board, but I am speaking as a deli buff chair. So, a lot of what you guys are talking about is not anywhere on the near term roadmap for Delek, if you think this is a problem that you wanna solve, you know, quickly,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "I would argue go ahead and do it and don't bet your life on whether Dellogg's gonna happen. I have no doubt about that. But but but but but but but but but but but but But, whether it handles this sort of problem, I wouldn't hold out for it because you may not ever get it. Or you might. Well, you are in luck West because Delek is the next team owner agenda. Yeah. The other was here to talk about is, a draft today published with my colleague, and your colleague Paul Hoffman, discussing a an EPP extension to allow Delek records to be sent from can into a into a registry. So brief summary for those who weren't, who've never heard of Delek. If you have heard haven't heard of Derek before, then go find the slides on the on the website. It's not only me reading through all of this. Especially since we had a long conversation on the last last document. The, the rationale behind this obviously is, if you if you want to used Delek from, Yeah. In a top level domain or in a in a registry, you need a way of of putting it there and the PPP is the way for it to get put there. So this is an extension that that represents direct records in XML and then describes how you can use provisioning commands to to add those records to to, domain domain names. Syntax is relatively straightforward. So there are examples on this slide. The first one is, example of a a Delek record in what's called alias where none of the, service parameters are be are being set the, the idea is that if this was a, Delek record in the DNS that resolved with just, resolve a service b record for conflict or example on that and then apply that globally to, the delegation to the domain names being that are delegated."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:04",
    "text": "The second example, has service premises, they're represented as attributes on a on a on a child animal. And there's an IO registry that that that that's used to identify what, extension elements can be so service parameters can be used and and they're just used disrepresented as as as, XML attributes on the params element element element. I'm sorry. I interrupt, but, couldn't do it to to seem to be making reference to slides and things that are there, but that's not what's being blade. We're still on your Oh. Your slides, your TTL slides. You're last year in the spike. Right. Okay. So I'm, so somehow My my computer is clever enough that it's showing a split specific tab on my on my, and my preview rather than the actual whole thing. So let me get it back. I'm able to reshare my screen. Oh, yeah. Sorry. That's for me to do. Of course. There you go. Okay. Thank you. Hi. Can you see that now? Starting it hasn't arrived yet. Thank you. No. Still waiting. Yeah. Maybe maybe try again just close it out and start again. Shop. Stop. And starting again. So they don't need to give me a mission that began. So so to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:15",
    "text": "Oh, I'm very sorry. I'm just not working for me this time around. James, she started doing now let's Yep. Again, try a different way of doing it. Seem to go find the other slides. Yeah. I don't know what's happening here. Maybe Is it worth maybe just skipping this one and moving on to the next presentation, then we could maybe have time, Try again at the end. I Yeah. The the the next three presentations sort of like belong together. But I think we can skip you in there. So, yeah, let's make a good suggestion. So let's go to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:02",
    "text": "next presentation first. Then, Jim, can you put up the slides for Martin for the wrestful EBT Yes. And there we are. So, Martin, Go ahead. Thank you. Hi, everybody. Can you skip to the next slide, please? I'm here to, talk about our progress with, our restful EPP. For a little little background, for those of you who are new, with with this subject, restful EPs about mapping the current EPP p, commands to a restful API. With with the goal of of creating a a better alignment with EPP and current EPP and AP API development standards. We focus mainly on on scalability, meaning, being able to create, scalable services, maybe running on cloud infrastructure performance as in, do we need to have all the, request messages and response messages currently designed for EPP, maybe you can skip a few Usability. EPP OTP works great. But it can be hard to implement And, of course, usability, you would like to make EPP easier to use for developers and end users. And security, when running if it be over HTTP, it comes easier to use a lot of standardized and already available, authentication schemes for PPP next slide, please. So, We had a, a first draft 12 years ago, and, We created a a new"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "version 1 based on feedback from what that we got in Prague, And what we did is, Okay. The new base, XML schema, based on the schema that's in Archie, 5730. And we removed some of the commands that we know no longer so just log in and log out because we're going for a a stateless API where, authentication credentials are being sent for each month and no there's no longer a session being created. Before, any of the other commands are, can be sent. And we also did a little bit of the renaming because the the current EPP style is more of an RPC style where the command and then you have something check and info. And this there's not really map nicely to a to a restful API. So we we changed that to, to instead of command, we have request. And below regression added a body element. In the previous draft, we also had an EPE extension. We removed this one it wasn't, because it wasn't, needed a bench, and we found out And we focused more on, usability. So trying to make it as easy as possible, for an end user API implementer to start working with EPP. Next slide, please. Hello? So that's going to the next slide. Thanks. So this is an example, based on the updated XML schema that we use. The top box contains that, a example for current EPP, I made a mistake here because the namespace And, the schema location uses the the new R EPP, access the, naming. So that should be the, the, the normal EPP naming schema there, And bottom box contains that the new R EBP"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "example. And what you can see is that we as I as I mentioned, we created a new top level, XML element called REPP, to distinguish it from the regular EPP And that instead of the command We have a request element and load the request element, we we created a body element and an in body element, we add the object specific, XML parts, So if you skip to the Next slide. We see an even simpler example for a domain check. Where, we don't even need to have an a request message because for, the main tech where you can just and code all the required information in the URL. For instance, here we see it a domain check. Which uses the the head method for HTTP and uses the URL to encode the required domain names, like, example, dottingell, authentication, stump using the authorization header. Which allows for a different token based authentication schemes, And the the client request ID is is from the Xmallmas is is replaced by a HTTP request header. And some of the things that are used in the standard EPP login method such as, namespaces that the clients would like to use Well, because we don't have a log in anymore, we have to use an additional, request other to transmit this one as well to the to the server. And and, response that we see that for for, at least for check, see that because check is a really basic, a really basic command, it only has to return if the domain exists or not. Maybe a little additional information. Instead of having an an XML message, We replace this with, a couple of HTTP headers"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:04",
    "text": "to show, the result of the check request which makes it a lot easier for a client to to parse the result and and continue with the processing of the of the command Next slide, please. We're also thinking about adding, support for for JSON. To the, RVP, but because this is quite a complex subject, we decided to create an additional document for this because Otherwise, it would become much to to elaborate a lot way too much work. And, so We currently have a document for the document for API itself and a document for the JSON schema, and we we were at at first thought about, okay, maybe just translate the mail messages, to JSON messages, but then we thought, okay, maybe it would be better to translate the XML schema to JSON schema, but JSON schema isn't really standardized yet, but it is used in in IETF, drops and and and I believe also standards. So not sure if this is the correct way, to go, but we love the additional feedback on that. Next slide, please. So, open questions that you currently have. So Yeah. We're kind of wondering, okay. What what is it that we're working on? Because, RFC 5730 says, okay, you can create additional transport mappings For instance, after this conversation, we have a conversation about HTTP and quick. Which are obviously transport mappings, but this is more like an API based on HTTP again. It's more comparable to something like SMTP, maybe this, like, application level protocol, Another questions. Okay. How do we handle the EPP extensions? In the URL, format and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:03",
    "text": "Yeah. And how do we continue on JSON support? Or do we use XML direct conversion, or do we convert moskema, Next next slide, please. So Yeah. And so for for this working group, we basically have, a a question. So is what's, what's the way forward from here? We updated the draft significantly, compared to the previous version. But we really need some input now on how to continue with this. Is this something we, as a working group, would like to work on? We have some collaboration from other registries already, and we plan to see if you get more support from the center community with, the European registries to work on this that there's some there is there is interest because there are multiple registers already working on restful APIs. And what we'd like to prevent is that we end up with multiple APIs doing APP related stuff, and that we're back at squareone So, yeah, if anybody can provide us with some feedback on what the best way forward would be then would that would be greatly appreciated. Thank you. K. Thank you, Martin, and, Any questions? I see Scott in the queue. Scott, go ahead. Antoine. Scott Hollandbeck. Martin, first off, thank you for the work. I am encouraged to see that people trying to find ways of making EPP useful. Right? Having said that, fact that you're modifying The schema found in 5730 and, you know, kind of doing that mean the content being moved things from point a to point b. Is not what's defined in 5730 and successors"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "means that this isn't EPP. It's EPP ish. Right? So what's the path forward? I think I'll We're not chartered. To do EPP 2.0 or Something that modifies you know, the the the the the the basic definition of EPP itself. So I'm kinda looking over at mister Murray over here for some insights into what he would think the path forward might be. I mean, maybe this is an experimental thing. Right, as opposed to a proposed standard. As of right now, I'm not sure it falls into the scope of what this working group is chartered to do, Yeah. Yeah. I, I, I get that because it's, it doesn't fit really neatly into the the the definitions described in in in, obviously, 5730 and how to create a replacement transport. Transport. Mechanism. And it's it's it's more than just a drop in transport, protocol. So that's what we're struggling with as well. Yeah. Thanks. Thank you. And then we have Jim in the queue. Jim, go ahead. Thank you, Antoine. Jim Galvin for the record, speaking as a participant. Gonna read out a question that's in the chat. Because I haven't liked the question. I think it's really interesting. Jody Coker put a message, question in the chat. Saying, how would the fee extension be mapped to this rest implementation Sorry. The fee extension How how would the Oh, I'm I'm not familiar with the feet extension per se, but, The the way the the current, extensions work should not be a problem for the mechanism came up with because the the current XML can just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "be reused without any problems. It's it's just we we use a a different root element and and and and and and and and, and, and, and, instead of command, we have, like, the the request and, and, and So but, the I think I've I haven't checked all the extensions, but I think most of the can be reused without any problems So thank you. I guess I would suggest that, probably should look at that and might wanna think a little more about that Thanks. Thanks. Yep. Thank you. K. Then thank you, Martin. Nobody else in the queue. And, yeah, speaking about a different way of, handling, transport mechanism. I don't know which one you're going to now, James, but we had a request to do HTTP before quick. So there you go. This is the HTTP document and we have Mario who is online and going to present on this Mario. We have we have 10 minutes. Okay. Hello, everybody. You hear me? Yep. Okay. This is a short presentation just to resume the discussion about mapping a PPO AGT and, hopefully move the document forward. Next slide, please. What's new in this new shown, compared to the previous version, the proposal has been made fully compliant with, 5730 document it aligns with the structure and makeup of,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:03",
    "text": "APP over TCP, describing 5734. And, James Goode and Dan Keithly, has been added as in place of the guys from the policy 3 would decide to quit. Next slide, please. These are the main, the basic, points, best best in principle, mapping if you pay over HTTP HTTP, an EPP client survey connection as the finding in, 5730 is mapping on on to an HTTP session. Which is started by the client by issuing a a get request to the server. As a consequence of that, the PPE survey must include the PPP greeting in the response and the generate and included in HTTP session ID in set cookie response either, Afterwards, the PPP client, must send all, subsequent comments by issuing of the requests, sir, and must include that they receive at the HTTP session in the in the cookie, either to senior this server what session, the, the comments is issuing it it is issuing, belong to Next slide, please. Just to slide about the security a consideration, services are required to support TLS 11.2 Ohio. And, man, we we we regard today, meet the, or batches control,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:01",
    "text": "that, we we require to use, at least one minute to a budget's contract to leave it, the server connection, is to all the authorized clients It is recommended to implement multiple largest control methods and this is a it suggests provided by Scott as a feedback to the to the new version that it it it will be incorporated in the new version, as 4. And, I listed the, in in the in the following some possible meters to to to improve access control. Just to implement a kind of 2 factor dedication beyond the the EPP credentials. Next slide, please as a conclusion, the, this proposal provides an APP transfer choice, which is, cloud friendly. It is fully compliant. We have a fit document, 5730 and he's fully pluggable. Pluggable with, EPP over TCP. So I I'm invited, I invite everyone in the working group to provide feedback on the mailing list. Next ride. As a final slide, I would also like to invite everyone to join next register operation workshop that this year will be held, in June 1st week of June."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:02",
    "text": "That's it for my side. Okay. Thank you, Mario. Are there any specific questions anybody has for Mario specific on the 8th CTP document, not so much on the transport, course, we will have another transport proposal coming next, and I think we can better do it there. But regret has something specific on the AC to be You're off the road. A more conservative approach compared to the previous ones. It's just a switch of transport. So this this is a real minor one, Mario, in the, in the one slide, you said something about the certificates have to be issued by a recognized authority or something like that. I think in the in the current stuff on the that governs the TCP Transport a server is allowed to use self signed certs, I believe, It But I might be foggy on that. Is that Is that a change from the current way that that TCP stuff is done or is this My or am I running out of caffeine 30 minutes after just dosing others for being out of caffeine. Perhaps, unfortunately. And, and I'm happy to take that offline. If that's not easily answerable off the top of your head. Thank you. Mario, would you like to respond to that? Sorry, but I didn't understand the question, you know, because my my my my, audio, doesn't work properly. Know, but, but,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:03",
    "text": "anyway. Okay. So I repeat the question, Rick shall said? Reach said, you know, in the TCP transport mechanism and, a client is allowed to use a self sign certificate yeah. So, yeah, Yeah. I know that this is the only one additional meter that we can implement to support a kind of, to further authentication beyond ATP credentials. So we we are talking about, with regard to data implementation, we are talking about, a an implementation that has been running running the 4 15 me as a this year. So we had never had, Fred regarding DOS attacks, or something like that. So we, we decide to have the approach to lock the if you the client, to a set of of, not not not overlapping EPP addresses because we migrated the from, an implementation that was based on issuing issuing faxes. So it require policy. Right? That's a local Italian policy. Oh, it's a it's a kind of, ethical the decision, not technical decision. But I I think that we must, let deserve it to decide what kind of additional measure to implement to enforce the security"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "So I know I know that you we have we have one minute left for two questions. Wes, go ahead. I'll make mine brief. This is Wes Hardaker again. If I was asked to review this as a sector, review your note in there saying you must implement a or is recommended in implement additional measures you know, to verify the client. I think that's great. I think trying to specify using an IP address or specific things beyond that would cause a lot of questions. So I would limit it to, to just what you want, maybe give some more cryptographic base you know, authentication and authorization mechanisms rather than look at IP address walking and things like that. Okay. Thank you, West Martin. Make it brief Yeah. Very brief. Thank you, Mario. Your, in the draft, I didn't see, that you mentioned anything about any URL specifics. Correct? path Or is open to the implementer and what to choose that totally there? Yeah. There there there is only the URL of the server. So they they they get method is only user to start the HTTP session. And, the other, all the governments are issued by by using the postdated. So You don't have to distinguish between the specific path K. Yeah. So there there's no need to maybe standardize, like, a starting point to start a session or maybe, like, slash session or whatever. No. It it the decision is started by using the Gitmeid the on the same"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:04",
    "text": "on the same URL where you you you receive the post meet So It just, the the session started when you receive if they get the meat of the Okay. In in the other case, when you receive a post meeting, you as a client, you submit the commented through the post meeting So you are you don't have to change anything about the the EPP comments. NDP APB extensions. So, and and simply receive the the the the the PPP comments through the poster and the and process the APP common. Okay. I'll check with you in mailing list. Thank the you. Okay. Thank you, Mario. Let's go over to the next presentation, transport over quick. And, again, Go ahead. Where you are or who is West presenting this? Hello, everyone. Course of, with versus James on 10th. So they they are remote on my side. I will simple introduction about this drop. So maybe James, and then I have a more comments better So Okay. Go ahead. So now everything is in cooker. Quick. Quick is a networker protocol that's based on UTP. So now we now HTTP or media over QR. So it's I think it's time to have an EPP or a cook quick. Quick. Less So what what's benefits of a quicker So because, TCP has some problems,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:00",
    "text": "the butter quick. It has a new per transfer transportation protocol, maybe have more benefits example, faster connection establishment. So maybe sometimes they have a lot 0, wrong triple time. So maybe reduce connection. It it that latency. So improved performance. So they have a more new new design. So have So so you you also you have has a enhanced conversion control. So says, so it also improve the security because they are natively support the kiosk TRS So we have also have a better connection mobility. So the winter environmental network changes. So the so quick can easily adapt with the new So so now we can I think since Cook has so many the one pages? So we can have making making ETP session measurement of, quick surveys. So we can throw a commendation or quick connection on the quick stream. So we, EPP, we can request, quick Commission, between 2 peers, ones that are have initiated a connection request on the other it it responses a connection request, So that means, quick a quick stream. Okay. Can't stress, cut So what One quick stream can respond to EPP, EPB session. So since what quick, one quick connection. How many many streams. So, one quick connection can have many"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "many EOQ sessions, So, so the I think there's a work because TCP, we can, 1 TCP, 1 EP session. Now, quick, quicker connection. We can one quick connection can many EPP, EPP session. So I think there's benefits. Nestra. So there's a actually, we have no big change So there, we have First, we have a success for, quick connections Then we create a quick streams for EPP So then send up greeting louding, many command and a response So, like, all at close quick stream. Close, close quick connections. So there's no bigger difference. So but here, but we we we can have a quick, many many streams So we can have a many EPV sessions. And that's right. Thank you. So data unit format is no different for hear your, so So where where is, so here is some transport considerations first command order, we click, guarantee the audit processing of data with the each stream. So session making, EP session management, utility quick as strains. Souls. These are state state for nature. So, quick. Quick, our support of the state of full communication between other points, So frame data, so quick users frame as well for its units, information when sending data over streams. So So we have also construction wall waitens So, real, reliability So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "a net flight. Next. Yes. This summary. So while we have EPP over quicker. So I think as Since here, we summarize as these are real it has EPP Transport security. A nonperformance because they, quit quick, native support TRS So also have a better, consumption control. So it EOQ also, for complied with I've seen 57, so, 30 is an EPP protocol. Sold. We also for pluggable trial portal with EPP over TCP So, James. So just to use a plug ball. So that means we can so here is our EPP service. Through configuration, we can through HTTPS, TCP, and, or some other protocols. So and I think this is a benefits. So Please help to review the trapped and, pro private feedback on the meetings. List, maybe James, on the remote, then maybe have some more comments. Thank you. Thanks for your help. And we have people in the queue. So I do as Stephane was actually first. He had a question very much at the beginning. So Stay found. Asked your question first. That's different. Yeah. Some of the benefits of quick. Do not really apply to ATPP. For instance, I'm not convinced of the reason to have several streams for a registrar running in the same quick connection in the same way. Mobility, I, I don't see the point because typically, the kind of our guest trees or web guest"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "does not move. So The first slide is a bit of overselling of quick for the specific case of EPP. Okay. So maybe, because this is is we can we can order replace, if currently EPG is running over TCP. So This is another replace of TCP. Maybe we can provide more choices So some, some registry or registrar, maybe like like a user 1 also. At one pager, maybe we can, gives them more choices. Thank you. And, James, do you have any comments to add Yeah. 2 I 2 I was wanting on the performance side, you know, we'll be able to establish a quick connection and do the TLS handshake once and then be able to open up multiple quick streams, would be able to allow registrars our clients to be able to establish many more concurrent streams of of sessions, quicker, much quicker. So anyways, on the on the second item, there was discussion around the charter, and the support for the definition of new EPP transports and I'm gonna make the case, the fact that Since the transports are defined in RC 5730, it'd be many, and there's inclusion of transport considerations in 5730. That that is an extension point. So although it's not called extension, it is an extension point that should be able to support the working group working on new PPP Transcores. Thank you. Yet. So probably that is something that, we need to ask our, Her area directorate if it thinks it's in scope of the charter or not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:00",
    "text": "I I think it could Thank you, James. Thank you. You enjoy there are no money. Ah, Scott is in the queue. He still has a remark to me. Show. Let's Go to stop first. Yeah. Thank you, Antoine. Now, Scott Holland back. While we did in fact architect Transport extension as part of EPP. Y'all going back to 1999. Just realized I don't know that we have a good way for transport to transports to be discovered. So if you're a client, How do you know which transports are supported by a server? Something we need to think about. Yes, sir. That's a remark about, you know, the the transport proposals in general. Right, Of course, we now suddenly have 3 ways of trying to change the stand transport mechanism and EPP So we will need to have a discussion about that too. I didn't hear anybody yet to ask for adoption by the working group. I think it will have the same path I think as the extensions the the, the the the versioning and, and media type discussion. Really need to think, do we need them all? Do we need only one? It's a it's a it's a nice thing to continue the discussion on the mailing So I think it is out. Let's see. I Gavin, do you still want to continue your present station because I have your slides now. No problem. I will I will do so on the provider that I will not go over the time, so I will do it in 25 seconds. Okay. Okay. And I was gonna say you do have 25 seconds. We're actually, at the end of our time here, So if you wanna take 25 seconds, go ahead, but then we really do need to end Okay. So whilst the whilst the slides are coming up, I'll just repeat what I 4. So this is very straightforward EPP extension. Extends the domain object to allow"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:04",
    "text": "deleg records to be added to a domain name through create and update commands and a few even using info commands. I think I would say that was obviously Delek is extremely early. And, it's likely change dramatically before, you know, ever sees publication as a as an RFC or anything you know, approximating that. And so this I don't know, the stock of itself is again, a bit late to have a very long lifespan as as it tracks the changes to Delek. But, the, you know, the rationale for for publishing it now was really to, to kind of, is almost a political one is to circumvent the argument that that none none of the cool stuff that they do on the DNS side of the of the ATF it can never be deployed because it takes the provisioning side so long to actually just to support it and, you know, this is a a, attempt to really just to say, look, we're listening. We're looking and we're not gonna let that happen this time. Because look here's a way of doing, adding Delayed records above his own cup in EPP. And, If you can, just move on to the next slide. I think don't expect this to become a work item for this working group for a very long time. That's all I wanted to say. But it's there and and, you know, my intention with the the and Paul is probably the same is to just keep tracking the demo work as it develops and and make sure this extension tracks it That's it. And I guess they're the both. Right? So with the Every every state that comes out of areas. it. I I see Murray behind the, Mike, but not in the queue. I'm intentionally standing far from the mic because I don't wanna talk about that. Okay. But I do see Jim in the queue. So Jim"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:06",
    "text": "Yeah. The other, Jim. Jim Reid. Just to follow-up about what you just see, Gavin, is that is still not clear. The timeline's friend, Delleg, will become a working group I think it's almost guaranteed that will happen. And I've had conflicting views over the last year. So whether or not that you're working be up and running in time for the Vancouver meeting I think that might be optimistic. But I think consume some time hopefully before the end of the year that the Delek working group is up and running. Where it first start producing docks you can take. Who can see I think hers is now going to correct me. Now is it gonna affect you though? Yeah. once again, So Also, the structure of the solution in Delek is not even in existence yet. So there is a draft that is a proposal It is not adopted. So it's not actually the accepted solution yet, and we suspect that there may be counter proposals coming up with other ways to do it. So Be careful when you track it that there's nothing to actually track yet this solid I think Gavin made it clear that it's not ready for being a working group document anytime soon. I really do wanna be respectful here. We're running over David will give you the last word And then, I think, Antoine, we need Coast. I just wanted to, say also to be really clear on like, deli right now, is it pose RR and but delink is also being used as the title of this, you know, work that might result in something that is not the Delaig RR. And so we should try to avoid overloading those terms. But right now, they're being overloaded that way. So to be clear, when we're talking about this all caps daily. It looks like we're talking about the IRR, but we we're talking about the puted the Del Lake Working Group, we might be talking about something very different Okay. Thank you. And then, Murray, I give you the last word. Thank you. This is my last meeting with you as your area director. The ownership of this working group now moves"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:00",
    "text": "Orie, who is also coming to the mic. Been a pleasure working with you all. I am sad. However, that you're only now starting to attack the discovery problem and new transports because I find that stuff really interesting. So I'll be I'll be fomowing off and some other working groups somewhere else, but thanks for the thanks for the ride. Thank you, Mary. I think it's appropriate to give Mary a little round of applause. Hello. I'm Maurice Steele. I'm gonna be your new area director. I'll be Welcome, Lauren. asking Murray all the questions that I need to get up to speed on all of this stuff, but, free to reach out to me or send me summaries or Got my email, you know, where I am on the list. Happy to chat about all this very exciting work. Thanks. Thank you. You go ahead. Closing words from you. Okay. Again, Closing words for me. Well, we're 4 minutes overdue. So whatever time slots we take, we always seem to run out of time Meeting adjourned. See each other on the mailing list. Thanks, everyone. Chairs. Yeah."
  }
]
