[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:23",
    "text": "[Music] we had a quorum oh yeah it\u0027s time hi there it\u0027s time and I think you know we needed to get a bigger room where next time ask for a larger room yeah all right oh of the quorum no we have is anyone awake all right blue shades should be on their way around do we have someone who would like to scribe notes in this room any volunteers thank you excellent all right welcome to calyx time bran I\u0027m your new chair but you already know that and you\u0027re who\u0027s been doing it for a while now here is the note well we\u0027ve all seen this document very many times everything happens in here doesn\u0027t just stays in here this is the agenda that I put together the other day sorry it is small and hard to read any agenda bashing at this point this is Barry liebe no no agenda bashing but just a quick note since Alexa has got his said this buried in his laptop right now that we have reshift at the working groups now that I\u0027m the new ad and alexei has passed this one on to me so I will be the responsible ad for calyx and I also wanted to call out Michael who is here for the first time in person we\u0027ve seen his name on the mailing lists Michael slusarz is actually we know his face now hi maybe at the end we we can also have a discussion of the format we want to adopt regarding should we have side meetings versus working group meeting I\u0027m more in favor of working room meeting but uh that\u0027s maybe something we can that chatter oh "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:25",
    "text": "because I I so a lot of side meetings and because we don\u0027t have that huge assembly of people so maybe that\u0027s something we could discuss I mean this is very you mean having it as in one of the side meeting slots rather than in it why would you why would you want to do that I\u0027m just asking the question I don\u0027t want that I prefer this okay yeah I think as ad I prefer this also that way you are in the scheduling process rather than doing ad hoc scheduling and you have conflict resolution built in and that\u0027s worth yeah exactly I\u0027d say one other thing as well is that they\u0027re likely sorry we\u0027re more likely to come as ad because you know if if we know that conflicts are voided as much as possible okay yes also we get the make echo facility and given that half the people here are remote that\u0027s quite valuable to us I would say judging from the mideco list up on the screen well more than half all right Zoe so we do this thing count of attachments this has had a recent update drafted sitting in the queue for Alexia to deal with it\u0027s a horrible abuse of HTTP but it\u0027s already in the field so we were talking about publishing what\u0027s there as informational so at least people can understand what the Apple clients and servers are doing right now yes this document made me cry yeah I\u0027m not going to recap the whole history of it but I think the last time I looked at it there was things that potentially required double checking with HTTP this working group even so we downgraded the document from proposed standard to informational but it was still using content disposition on responses which apparently wasn\u0027t defined for requests was only defined for quests so I need to double check where what\u0027s that latest acts sorry I haven\u0027t checked I don\u0027t know where this is still synchronization point I cannot just go and approve it if the issue is still there so is anything you need for me bring more time so Julian is actually here this week and Julian was the one who raised all the objections about HTTP "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:26",
    "text": "abuse unfortunately I can the read the document recently so it\u0027s sort of I\u0027m I can tell me what I know can you guys hear me or no yes I took Julian suggestion and added text that says this is only to be used for this particular draft and it\u0027s not a standard use of content-disposition I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s gonna be sufficient but that was his suggestion and that\u0027s what I did so I did not go through the trouble of registering it as a standard response I mean my my personal opinion which probably I don\u0027t know what that the Griesa disagrees with Julian\u0027s is it\u0027s still a good the mechanism itself the content-disposition and responses seems to make sense so we published if it makes sense his generic enough a publisher should go through the process of doing it um actually this draft was using it as a request header not as a response header that was attention yes it sorry I I mixed up the requested response I think it is defined on the responses it\u0027s not defined for requests so it\u0027s the other way around basically but it\u0027s similar usage type so we got 20 more percent of the work of the working group it just walk in I\u0027m wondering Braun can you be a proxy for can and maybe talk to Julian this way okay I would ask the question of what do you think is the best thing for this particular element to do is it sufficient as far as Julian is concerned to just mention it as a special case I mean I\u0027ve ideally it probably worth registering it properly but I understand it\u0027s going to be probably a separate document and exit delay but also trying to figure out what Julian thinks is the right thing whether we agree or disagree you probably would be a good idea but just a comment so my understanding of this draft is that we are more documenting in implementation than trying to do the right thing so should we have some text saying we know it\u0027s bad so this is how it is currently being implemented and make it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:26",
    "text": "very clear that that\u0027s what\u0027s there now yeah yeah I\u0027m mulch in the last iteration of the draft I did add a bulleted list of all the non-standard uses of HTTP which was another suggestion that I received from Julian and it does talk about the fact that we\u0027re using that header in a non-standard way okay so basically two action items Ron will talk to Julian this week yes yes just you know double-check and I will try to review the diff and see if I get to it this week I will but I might be a bit swamped grayness it all right back slides next event pub this one again he\u0027s with you Alexi was it updated it was updated well that you know game right oh yeah so uh basically after uh after the previous document I did such a thorough review I thought I just wouldn\u0027t let you people get away with anything this time so I think Michael updated the document so I just need to double check I certainly I think I did a quick scan but I don\u0027t remember my full review so I just need to double check that all the points addressed I\u0027m sure that\u0027s at least some of them are but so if I recall correctly we send it to you you so that was like my ideal evaluation I said new revision yeah yeah and then you provide some feedbacks but some of the people in the working group where we missed some comments so weary address those yeah there was an extra property or something you had it as well yes and later some people from calculate came with other changes that was that have been integrated by Michael as well okay that\u0027s my history all that within this ad review yeah so basically uh I need ya I need to check the changes and compare it with my review and if I\u0027m happy that that will start ITF us call on this one oh thanks yeah so that brings up the question Alexey what we do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:27",
    "text": "with the transition from you to me I certainly would like given that the attachments has been held up for over a year and is through iesg evaluation I would like you to finish up with that but the this one hasn\u0027t gone to ia SGA hasn\u0027t gone to last call yet so perhaps once you\u0027re finished when when you\u0027re satisfied with your ad evaluation pass it on to me and I\u0027ll take it from there because I mean if you want to keep with the document that\u0027s okay but if it\u0027s my working group to deal with then I should take it off your hands but I\u0027m okay either way okay how about if the document Tim does to be problematic I will give it to you well I don\u0027t think it matters because I suspect that both well I already done my read my first three I\u0027m sure you will read it whether you are sponsoring a G or not so I don\u0027t think it matters yeah yeah I\u0027m sort of okay with keeping this one all right back to the slides next is jeaious calendar and slides for that idea okay I\u0027m a my own yes okay so hey everybody given that the majority of the audience seems to know about Gia\u0027s calendar already I\u0027m gonna skip the introductory part so let\u0027s please jump to slide number three status so we we had entered last call with version 10 about quarter ago if I recall correctly since then we had received substantial feedback and changed quite some parts of the specification we are now at version twelfth and we are we now it\u0027s it\u0027s now stabilizing very much and we would like to further discussed and if to enter a lot of colic and all what\u0027s the next step coming shortly to to some of the changes on slide number four we there shouldn\u0027t be many surprises in first glance glance what has changed is that for time zones we now also define allowed to define custom time zones to be embedded in the chase calendar object that has been requested by a couple of people to stay backwards compatible with their existing data so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:29",
    "text": "there is now full support for what you can basically put into a V time zone Chia\u0027s calendar other than that on slide number five just a couple of differences to the AI calendar model are that we have a much richer data model for locations for put on stat number five and please we have much richer models for locations for event and task participants as well as for descriptions and there is also the option to localize content hopefully much better than in AI calendar so the discussion we currently still have open on slide number six our slide number six piece next slide okay so the question are what what\u0027s the best next step to to standardize the parts of the of the specification that have undergone already many reviews and whether it\u0027s consensus and we already see a couple of people implementing this in various parts of the specification or various drafts of the specification one thing we are wondering about if if the translation from ike between Ike and ideas calendar that we have currently in the core document should be separated into an informational document as it\u0027s not as if it is just a recommendation of necessarily a standardization the other thing we are wondering about is if J s task is good enough we had had a lot of feedback from from people but the overall number of people commenting on it wasn\u0027t that large so we are wondering if we should standardize events separately from tasks and continue working on that the other parts are our minor discussions that basically are are done already and we\u0027ll get into the into version 13 that I will send out very soon No so on the next slide slide number seven the question is what are the next steps in there in my understanding the the open decision points are mainly what to what to put into the document to start the the finalization of standardization and and enclose to that so what is the next step to enter last call again that\u0027s the presentation thank you there\u0027s also one thing that Alexei rise to me just a few minutes ago which was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:29",
    "text": "whether we were going to have a way to round-trip unknowing iCalendar filled into this format yes sorry I forgot about that I wanted to mention it we had been thinking about this a couple of times and um I understand the need and uh we we might want to think about options one could be to use two round-trip these properties using the DL format but um we can come up with a couple of options so we just lost you in those last few words there a bit oh I just was saying we might want to think into using Jake hell for round trip in them but we can look into if we also find other options for round tripping now you\u0027re just gonna do it or it probably just I just said we might want to look into chicken for that so round-tripping properties in cheese and chicken alright as Jim berry you will be the area director for this one um what\u0027s what\u0027s your few known on where we should go from here should we restart the last call now what grip last call yeah I think that\u0027s a working group chair decision I don\u0027t really have an opinion okay so the some of them were renaming fields so they make more sense in isolation things like parts debt for example you have to go back every time and understand what that means from the RFC everyone who discovers that newly doesn\u0027t understand so that got fully spelled out as participation status they\u0027re a bunch of things like that where we we looked at the naming and said does this make sense in isolation let\u0027s choose names that that make sense to someone reading this data format without iCalendar this is a reference robert probably has more if sounds working again I\u0027m not sure is it it is at least a moment so the question was so if there are what were the changes of what our anticipated changes how substantive are the changes so we can decide whether we should do in a formal working group last call again there are there are no expected changes and you break your picking up again not working yeah I want to try we\u0027re gonna red button you out come back in while we\u0027re doing that I sense the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:31",
    "text": "reason that I don\u0027t care that I think it\u0027s up to you is that it\u0027s a very small working group with just a few very active participants who I presume have been following what\u0027s going on so I\u0027m not really worried if we go straight to publication requested and we do a community last call and then one of our participants pops up and says oh the latest changes there\u0027s an issue I think for the most part people have been following it and I don\u0027t think it\u0027s a problem either way all right yeah especially given that when we started the working group less coal I think we intended some updates during that cause yeah channeling Robert I push a version protein up to the ietf repo this week all right cool and then we\u0027ll we\u0027ll take push that for publication and if there\u0027s any last comments they can come through during that face all right thank the chair slides next is a relationship with the teaser dist list and time zone work in general I have an opinion I was looking for Elliott actually um well you say what you want to say and then I\u0027ll comment to them go for it oh I was throwing this one open to the Chris so the as far as I remember there are three documents that were the base format one which is sponsored and it was discussed on it is a deist meaningless right so it\u0027s this this abyss yes because very close the original meaning list and it got everybody very confused but apparently he had a good reason so you know I because some some people were misbehaving there right so my early advice to Elliott was start acting like a working group and if you do a good job you probably will be one so I\u0027m tempted with this one to actually create a working group for the remaining two documents especially considering the Reggio location stuff there and this is a bit of a hot button for some of our steamed art qualities and you know it would be nice you know there are lots of people concerned about geolocation privacy and hmm yeah so they will definitely love you and possibly when you know we recommend up specific text so if I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:38",
    "text": "understand you correctly you would like to have it support a working girl yeah yeah kiya keep the did reused you see this base mailing list create a working group yeah all right sounds good so I will push this to you considering that you are seemed like interested parties as a new collects chairs maybe you would like to gather other interested party this week and come up with the Charter I suggest you go for an Elliot a little ear yeah I haven\u0027t talked to him about this but I suspect that he might agree to co-chair I mean this is my preference here if people have a really good reason why it should be kept here and or if we couldn\u0027t find chairs or whatever yeah we can do visit but for now I prefer a separate working group I guess the only argument for keeping it here is we don\u0027t have much other work coming down through this group keeps little Jess endless Jess contact comes in here as well there is the the work that\u0027s coming from Cal connector we\u0027ll get to in a minute yes so so whether whether there\u0027s not enough work for for whether you will just want a multiplicity of ed working groups each of which needs minimum one hour for once time on the schedule yeah that\u0027s not the issue I think you\u0027re aware that there are some people with particular bones to pick about any of the time zone stuff and I don\u0027t want anybody to be able to accuse us of trying to hide it and I don\u0027t want those people to come here and disrupt this working group that\u0027s why I think another a separate working group would be good and I hope that a working group that\u0027s tightly chartered would keep the disruptors from getting too annoyed or annoying cool all right moving on to the Cal Connect work there are many drafts in the Cal connect public drafts repository or expired drafts have been proposed as individual drafts to those yes and and haven\u0027t been followed up on I\u0027ve been working within Cal connect to convince them that it is worth bringing this work to the OSF and that it it will actually get discussed here it won\u0027t disappear the relationship "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:40",
    "text": "got fairly sour a few years ago and there was talk within Cal Connect of screw these IGF guys we\u0027re just going to publish everything for ourselves or through I so I\u0027m trying to discourage that as a pathway forwards particularly for things that update existing ICF documents so I would like to than to bring the work here would there be any value in art ADEs making another trip to Cal Connect which we have done in the past potentially the next three Cal connects this one in the UK coming up in the first week of June there\u0027s one in Philadelphia being hosted by fast mail and then we believe that Apple are going to host well the second one is a quick set the ride from me so yes that would be fine excellent I think that we\u0027re good so both Byron myself went to different connects in the past I\u0027m actually attempted to we probably should continue doing this but another thing that might be worth doing is maybe Cal Connect can co-locate to the atf like do it it you know the week before ITF somewhere next year for example well hole locations are known potentially Cal connect was also talking about killer heading with morgue at one stage yeah given that Apple is looking at hosting in San Francisco but for the next February anyway that might wind up happening don\u0027t know yet yeah just a bug in your ear about that if you do that I would prefer you do it the week before rather than the week after this the week after is in DSS in San Diego alright oh I\u0027ll keep that in mind I don\u0027t know how much control I have over when Apple\u0027s gonna be available laughs yes all right so looking at the drops there are two drafts the V poll and subscription upgrades that I would like to propose that we adopt into this working group to work on they are somewhat complete but not entirely done and in a good state - to bring to the mailing list here and propose that Cal Connect work on and it\u0027s sorry that calyx work on and that hopefully can be published fairly soon and just to close the loop on where IETF is next year it\u0027s Vancouver in March Madrid in July and TBD presumably Asia in November and then we\u0027re back to Prague the following spring know Prague yeah easy for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:46",
    "text": "everybody everybody alright as easy as anything is frustrating not further away by the time you get in an airplane yeah it\u0027s all the same London is two hops from Melbourne Prague is two hops from Melbourne it\u0027s the same distance most places in the world of the same distance alright so I\u0027ll do a corporate option to the mailing list for those two documents there are other things the auto discovery calendar push and the calendar sharing documents that I could also throw them straight into call for adoption now or we can try and bring things very slowly I don\u0027t know what you prefer to do us a drink to throw em all in awesome five at the moment it\u0027s all it\u0027s a question to me of milestones I don\u0027t have any objection to having five or ten documents on the docket as long as you planned out the work and have appropriate milestones so alright doesn\u0027t necessarily mean you\u0027re going to actively work on all of them at once they\u0027re just on the list well we should I discourage you from having too many documents in active development at once but again that\u0027s your decision about how many is appropriate for the energy of the working group yeah both those five there are three separate offices working on them probably at least one for each of those authors okay that\u0027s all right I\u0027ll just remind you that it isn\u0027t just about the authors it\u0027s also about who\u0027s willing to review documents and comment yeah and people are often willing to do that about a couple of documents but not six all right next is chart up so the current Charter is a couple of years old and it mentions that we will work on a bunch of work that\u0027s already been done and not much else I sent around a draft charter a little while back it is here in the supporting Docs can I come back to the document Bob event yeah stuff I just checked the diff like against my comments my comments were not addressed okay Mike is here Mike you want to speak about it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:48",
    "text": "remotely yet I\u0027ve noticed that at least one of my comments was wrong but I never got any response to any of them some of them need more text and not just syntactic stuff so I think we need to have a discussion about okay so thanks I will sit up with my connect one thing with the discussion we had regarding that maybe the Charter we had this week on so we have to evaluate eventually that right I think at the moment the vCard stuff is still in the dispatch queue discussion there about where to bring it you needs to settle and as far as I know there hasn\u0027t been a whole lot of discussion about that so have that discussion and then we\u0027ll see what happens as you\u0027ve heard in the dispatch meeting my opinion is that it shouldn\u0027t be here it should be in its own working group or if not in J map but that\u0027s my opinion and I\u0027m not gonna I have no more say than anyone else should we reach out and out not including that and then come back to it or should we wait I think you should reach out her the there was a time when we said let\u0027s try to make the charters really broad so we can keep moving on work the we\u0027re now in a state where reach our turing is easy enough that if we have to recharter again in a couple of months we can do it so alright I might just read through what\u0027s here and and then see if it makes sense read outloud it\u0027ll take a couple of minutes calendar extension working group has charged us to develop extensions to our calendar I tip and Cal dev standards working group will do the following to find a new JSON based format for calendaring and a mapping from our calendar it\u0027s a new format which is J\u0027s calendar defined a new set of iCalendar properties to improve management of alarms and default notifications and calendar events that\u0027s one of the pieces of work that we\u0027re bringing through very soon to find a standard way for caldo clients to control creation and delivery of scheduling messages by a server while cleaning up after abuse migrating events or us throwing for backups which for some reason doesn\u0027t appear to be in the slides that was my draft that I\u0027ve just written up quite recently Google do exactly the same thing in house in their server and we use it now you\u0027re looking well I\u0027m puzzled about that one that you just read out about why let\u0027s do this when cleaning up after abuse etc so basically ways of turning "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:48",
    "text": "off scheduling on the server to say I just want to store this this record on there don\u0027t do the regular scheduling stuff so restoring from backups if you are late in control so throttle is really what you mean there that kind of suppress suppress suppress might be a better word yeah okay then that makes it much clearer about what\u0027s going okay thank you cool I\u0027ll change that were to suppress their ego to find a new set of a set of new iCalendar properties and parameters to standardize some existing experimental ex properties in common use based on a survey of existing implementations to find an extension to our count of support consensus scheduling where members of an event or task voted on alternatives this is the a poll stuff sort of a poll stuff maintain the existing standards for calendaring by betting errata and where necessary writing specifications to clarify update or replace the existing documents the working group will work under the following parameters the extensions developed are expected to be backwards compatible with the existing calendar standards in incompatibilities must be identified minimized and justified for each set of extinct extensions examine the impact on the archer protocol and define any necessary extensions to our chip to accommodate such impact for each set of extensions examine our impact on the caldera protocol defining a necessary extensions to quell doubt to accommodate such impact interface with HTTP abyss to ensure that any culled out changes the consistent was good at shape your practices where any implementations already exist and have been shipping for some time either document existing behavior as well as preferred standard or just document the existing behaviors informational which deals with things like to CalDAV attachments that have been shipping for years and there\u0027s not much we can do about it other than at least make sure people know out of scope is any change that impacts backwards compatibility with existing deployed counters and service will be discussed basically reading above and we\u0027re still not gonna try and do non gregorian calendar systems is there anything obvious missing or that should be added to that everything in that list is something that we\u0027re already working on or is just about ready to be added all right you\u0027re happy berry excellent I will I will update the dodgy word and propose that then other business review of milestones I haven\u0027t put that anything in there we looked over the milestones fairly recently I don\u0027t know if it will let me in to review them on here actually because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:50",
    "text": "that\u0027s not logged in dogs yeah I\u0027ve gotten myself into now okay so um milestones we have April 2019 update charter we\u0027re on target for that June we have kal-el CalDAV attachments event pub locale relations and je s calendar where\u0027s our relations there and not in our document list yes where\u0027s iCal relations and why is it not showing up it is June oh because probably why is it not in our active drafts it Sam it\u0027s probably because it has fastest six months deadline okay that\u0027s there so we should follow us to be on Republic okay um note to myself here relations that\u0027s why that didn\u0027t appear on my list at all um I doubt we\u0027ll get all four of them through by June realistically what do we think we push event pub back given that it it still needs additional work before Alexia\u0027s ready for it I think we can match those two goals amends essence yeah iCal relations and check its might as well considering I\u0027m no longer going to be your ad at this point so better can override me I suggest a limit into a couple of documents at a time yeah at least in the same state you know you cannot send two documents at a time you have to bury for review and have like two more in working group last call but don\u0027t send like four documents at the same time this is should should you succeed at this this would be you know pick over load for reading so all right so well CalDAV attachments is pretty much ready to go hopefully it was once I checked that up so that will go through right catchments is not an issue that\u0027s not going to go back through the process yes unless they just has to but the other thing up in iCal relations needs to be worked through right and then jazz calendar will arrive the the only the thing to watch for is that if there are any documents that ought to be reviewed together yeah try to send those at the same time but otherwise yeah so we think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:52",
    "text": "this this current set of milestones is still reasonable and then we\u0027ll set some milestones further in future for the documents that come through all right I\u0027ll lay them out over the rest of the year as they come in cool that\u0027s good plans for Montreal I expect we will have a couple of drafts in progress by then hopefully I don\u0027t know whether we\u0027ll need a meeting or not but I guess we can make that call a month or so out I will be not present for the first day and a half of Montreal unfortunately I have something I have to be in Melbourne for on the Monday so I\u0027ll be flying out straight after that yeah I\u0027ll arrive early morning and the friends have email dinners tomorrow night 7 p.m. at I didn\u0027t fill in the details I did actually fill in the details but the URL blanked out on the slide for some reason but anyway the emails sent around I think pretty much everyone here\u0027s in the email working groups as well so I\u0027ll ask for a short ends this afternoon any other business not everyone done the blue shades I think so yeah floating around somewhere yes excellent cool thank you everybody thank you see most of you in an hour yeah prioritize this one-third chance calendar yeah because this one does you know the heavy tail yeah so we\u0027ve time so I don\u0027t want that those drafty yep this one has to be sure that we\u0027re moving on yes this chittim things or you\u0027re using there that person well we might build a ring nice chick forward some a yeah let\u0027s do that but we call a problem with attachments drag oh no actually no we don\u0027t yeah but it\u0027s information also doesn\u0027t matter yes yeah okay I\u0027ll I\u0027ll still just email ysg saying you know this documents is information law well "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:52",
    "text": "you see Franco polite thing to do I don\u0027t think people will ask for you know volunteer for more reviews I don\u0027t think mm I think if they were green before they\u0027ll be green now and I don\u0027t think any of the new ADEs really wanna review it so I would just clearly discuss when when you thready and put it in approved appoint approved announcement if you sent that\u0027s all hmm doesn\u0027t simply offering me the option of editing the Charter so you have to log in and for your money it also sits just sin yeah send notices to Cyrus to boot she\u0027s clearly no longer accurate sadly Syrus is doing something super secret after all he\u0027s not allowed to tell us about mmm it\u0027s way even got him drunk and you wouldn\u0027t tell us when I say we I mean [Laughter] if you live on the East Coast I start from NSA and there\u0027s really not that much difference in the antigen my neighbors work for NSA yeah Apple probably make the chip for the NSA in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:52",
    "text": "their agents extra and J map maybe I should have sent it to the the older lists as well I\u0027m at five didn\u0027t intend deke through watch olya flame wars between mark Crispin never met mark no depending what you believe about the afterlife anyway right other groups let - yeah I can\u0027t don\u0027t see it the Jamie Adam Angie Cheryl Maps how do we update the charger oh that\u0027s gonna say it doesn\u0027t doesn\u0027t show an edit but yeah there\u0027s a new well not new anymore but relatively new charter process where we spin off a version of the Charter and it goes through a probe Olga the AG\u0027s have to initiate it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:42",
    "text": "right emails thanks for nuts Jim I\u0027m sending it to Mike so oh yeah cool yeah cuz the other yep check you know Oh yep I\u0027m the Shepherd on that one now so that\u0027s amazing this is not you know it\u0027s "
  }
]