[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:12",
    "text": "hi welcome to the t\u0027s working group at IDF 105 I\u0027m Luke Berger Kevon theorem next to me and we are lucky enough to have actually have Matt Hartley in the room he\u0027s off at remote he really does exist we always appreciate his help whether remote or local it\u0027s great to have him here our agenda has been posted there really hasn\u0027t been any significant change that\u0027s been posted we are doing etherpad as usual I asked everyone to jump on and help us capture comments that are made at the mic you don\u0027t need to capture everything that\u0027s spoken during they hate the slides that\u0027s captured in the slides and the videos and it\u0027s really the discussion that\u0027s important to capture in the notes we are at the IETF you didn\u0027t notice which means we have our note well we have rules that govern our participation and our contribution to the IETF if you\u0027re not familiar with it please take a look at that URL on the bottom but basically everything you say here or at any meeting at the IETF it becomes part of our record we\u0027re streaming we\u0027re recording please say your names as you come to the microphone that\u0027s helpful for those who are remote as well as for when you go back to take make sure we have accurate minutes I am on Jabbar and if anyone else wants to jump on Jabbar that\u0027s great but sometimes I don\u0027t always come on it always able to monitor so well that\u0027s chair but if anyone has a comment remote we welcome that whether you come in through me echo or through jabber so moving on to where we are on documents we have no new RFC\u0027s and we just had one RFC that moved into the RFC editor queue on yesterday that\u0027s the to each apology that is a was a very major piece of work it\u0027s important piece of work and we\u0027re really happy to see that progressing we have some other documents that are being that are going through the normal is cheap processing and so it\u0027s always but again to see the work of the working group heading towards publication of course that\u0027s why we\u0027re here we have a couple of newly adopted documents I believe they are both on the agenda okay we\u0027ll go through in a moment any document that\u0027s not on the agenda we have two sessions today the first ones one year and now so good you found us that\u0027s excellent the session information changes between the sessions in particular the audio "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:14",
    "text": "stream will change there everything else stays the same including thankfully the room we do have a beverage break for 20 minutes between 3 and 3:20 we do intend to take that break it is our hope that we can run through our agenda faster than what we have listed but we also do have this extra long time the ex is actually more time than we requested so we\u0027ll take advantage of it we don\u0027t have to leave early but if we leave early that\u0027s also okay our agenda is pretty tight particularly the first session this is loaded with documents that are have been accepted by the working group as well as the designs in activity that we talked about I believe that the last meeting or talked about last couple of meetings our second session we\u0027ll move on to non adopted work and particular we have a little bit of a section on slicing and 5-g related activities that I\u0027m sure lots of folks will be interested in and that\u0027s that lay a hot topic we\u0027ve had no liaisons or communication since the last meeting I just realized I meant to go and check Arata I\u0027m not sure if we had any errata that came in but we should mention that that\u0027s my bad Pavan says we didn\u0027t have any so that\u0027s didn\u0027t miss anything here that\u0027s good as usual just a reminder we have a formal IPR process that we\u0027ve adopted in the working group that says we will hold a working group whenever we adopt a document and again before we submit for publications but the IceCube location will pull the working group to for disclosures of IPR we do encourage everyone to use the mailing list it\u0027s a great place for discussion it\u0027s a great place to make sure that your colleagues are in sync with the activity that the progress you\u0027ve been making on a draft and it\u0027s a great way to report those private conversations that happen inevitably happen between authors and that\u0027s it for the first so much for the idea of reloading loading everything up to start we look at the status of working group "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:16",
    "text": "documents now this is the set of documents working group documents that are not in the agenda today so we\u0027ll walk through the status of each of these in the next few slides first up is the AC TN yang document no changes since the last ITF in previous meetings we agreed that we would wait for the generate key models to progress to the publication stage and then revisit this we are not there yet so in the meantime if we can get in a few more reviews that would be very useful next is the enhanced VPN document there was a revision published for this early this month there was a section added for covering inter domain and inter layer network scenarios the authors intend to add more details and operational considerations we do have some work relevant to this coming up in the second session so this topic would get revisited again next is the PC native IP document there was a revision published for this in April this carried primarily some a tutorial changes the authors may make a few changes to the document based on how the scenarios document progresses through the publication stage there is there was an open question on if and when the status of this needs to be changed so we would let it stay as is for now and revisited at a later point in time next is the PC CC use cases document there was a revision published for this in July there was some text added to state that this is a living document to catalog the various use case of PC CC and that there is currently no intent from the authors to publish this as an RSC this point of debate would be revisited at a later point in time when I guess we run out of more any more use cases to add the if the last revision date contain a new section for beer the PCE CC use case for beer and the author\u0027s do intend to add cover the multicast SR policy use case as well in upcoming provisions this is the RSVP RM our extensions draft there was a section added in the new revision covering Express links at this point they are requesting the authors are requesting further review and feedback from the working group so please do give it a read and reach out to the authors on the list if you have any questions or concerns with approach being taken next is the SF aware topology model there haven\u0027t been any changes to this since the last ITF but the authors do feel that it it\u0027s mature enough to warrant a young doctor to take a look at it so we\u0027ll make sure that happens next is the long-standing key metric recording craft at this stage "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:17",
    "text": "last year we were on the verge of killing this but the authors of miraculously turned this around they did publish a revision yesterday and asked for the authors there are no more open issues and they are ready to take it to the last call I did skim through the document then seems like all the outstanding comments have been addressed I would request the working group to do the same and reach out to the authors if there are still any concerns we do intend to take it to the list pretty soon next is the tea service mapping document again only no changes since the last time but there are a few outstanding items from early this year that need to get a dust the authors have promised that this would be taken care of in that coming revisions next is the tutorial document that we have for using the tea topology and towel modeling tunnel models this again falls under sort of a living document bucket there is currently no urgency to take it to the next stage the authors do have I have identified they have identified a few or scenarios to cover so please do review them as they come and reach out to the others if there are any particular scenarios that aren\u0027t currently available in the document the last document in this deck is the path computation data model there they were a few this seems to be an outdated slight but yeah there were some comments that were received on the list from I believe Olivia and Julian they were a couple of use cases that are added but those did not translate into any young model changes the authors do have a few open issues on the gate that need to get taken care of and they do believe that this would be ready for a young dog distributive or the next idea that\u0027s all we have in this deck let\u0027s move on to our first present of other day that would be correct just say good afternoon the working group my name is tarick and I\u0027ll walk you over a quick update over the working group documents on the first slide so I\u0027ll go over the updates from the last time we met I\u0027ll present some open issues and finally we\u0027ll talk "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:18",
    "text": "about the next steps X piece so the first document is the yang - te which covers the tunnels LSPs constructs and attributes that model on the device as well as on off the device or a controller next please so the first open issue the this this model or this document went through a round of yang doctor\u0027s review and we got recently comments the author\u0027s will be going ahead and the first feedback we got this is on the right track and and we will be addressing the cons that we got next these the second open issue is a discussion that happened on the mailing list and with regards to a tunnel name collision tunnels can be configured on the device they could be configured on the controller they could be learned or State on the controller or learnt or State on the device itself and we have we have an issue where the name of a tunnel that is learned can collide with a tunnel that\u0027s configured either on the device or the controller and we have a proposal that we discussed on the list as I mentioned and we\u0027ll go over it on the next slide please so as I was mentioning the name collision can happen on the controller if the controller learns of from different devices with the same name what we had suggested is for learned tunnels or four state tunnels from devices we will append the ingress ID to the name so that it\u0027s unique so an example is a tunnel r1 - foo will be distinguishable from r2 - foo where r1 and r2 are the ingress routers the second case an operator can configure a tunnel name matching and automatically create a tunnel on the device with the same name we have to have them distinguishable so we are proposing a configured prefix the prefix can take for example Auto as value or string and then we can distinguish for example a tunnel auto - bypass link one from a tunnel bypass - link 1 which is configured so the one on auto - is auto-created and the bypass - link 1 is configured by the operator so this is this is one way we could distinguish it in the in this case the third case is a controller has a configured tunnel with a name and then it learns a tunnel with the same name and what we\u0027re suggesting is we have penned the prefix the same prefix we are introducing can be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:18",
    "text": "configured with a different value on the controller for example remote so in this example on the bottom I show in remote - r1 foo remote - r2 foo will be the distinguished from r2 - foo for example which is configured on the controller so the gist of the proposal is that we have a prefix and we prepend the name with it so it becomes distinguishable next please the next draft is the RSVP model draft we have two modules in it the model covers the attributes of the RSVP protocol and signaling parameters per session per neighbor and per interface next please so for this draft it went through a round of doctor\u0027s review comments and we got the feedback and addressed it so we had some knits to address added nets we had state containers which was in conflict with nmda and we removed that we had to expand some names of Leafs some pluralization of nouns there as well we added some normative references for imported mod modules next the second update the four four sessions of RSVP we had a single list and we were putting in this list two types of sessions IP RSVP sessions and rsvp-te sessions the key of these two sessions as defined into RFC 2205 and 3209 they\u0027re different P so one suggestion was for the ease of lookup of a section a session to use the actual real key native key that rather than having a index that we needed to a walk to match on the specific session so we the proposal what we\u0027ve done is we split into two lists one list for RSVP IP sessions another list for our zbt sessions and we introduced the native keys for each type of session next did you include support for the upset cars PPP RSVP types the desk or the security the IP security yeah this was - - oh I admit doesn\u0027t ring no okay are you hinting that we should or okay whether whether or not this actually supports it I think you might be okay for the session that the center template might cause you a problem okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:19",
    "text": "it\u0027s worth double check I will double check thank you so we added a couple of our pcs with our GP model specifically to clear sessions specific session or all of the sessions and the clear RSVP neighbor we have a hello session established with that neighbor and we wanted to clear it again it\u0027s a specific session or all of the sessions the notifications we piggybacked on the publish/subscribe model and we added a section and draft to talk how we can leverage that max please with with this the next steps we for the first draft we\u0027ve addressed all of the yang doctors review comments there we go with another round of internal review but we will be asking soon for working group last also we asked the working group if you have anything for example now Lu had pointed out the IPSec support please raise the issue before we call we ask for working group last call the second draft the ete tunnel modeling we had as I mentioned received some comments from the yang doctors review we will be addressing those and we will be requesting a working group last call after that the last two documents there we are going through another round of review for them before calling for yang doctors if you with this I close my presentation questions yeah hi this is true from far we have the question regarding the name collision and especially the first point in the name collision which was regarding the controller learning the tunnel name from devices which is the same right and you using r1 r2 so do you have little bit more details about where will our one string will come and and how would you where is this coming from r1 exactly of the source as a string how would you figure it out so that\u0027s a fair point so one one proposal was to use the source address which we have already in the model but we think that you know it can be a DNS name or or maybe a configurable name on the of the Ingres itself but so far we said the source address is going to be appended for example if you think that\u0027s not user-friendly we should look into the different option I\u0027m feeling like why did we put name as the only key and not put source and name together as a key that\u0027s another but maybe it\u0027s too late that\u0027s another yeah it\u0027s a fair point so we have one list that contains all the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:20",
    "text": "tunnels from all the devices we could split multiple lists per device but we wanted that the model itself to sit on either a device or the controller so this is why we took this approach this problem shows up only if the controller is trying to put everything in the same data scope and the assumption is that the controller knows whom it\u0027s getting it from and it will take the corresponding source ID n dependent how you know the society I mean the assumption is that there is because you are getting the data out from a particular source you use that particular source ID am dependent it\u0027s a fair point thank you for raising it Thanks so next up I\u0027m chief you know from water networks I\u0027m here to give a quick update to tu topology model documents the first one is Larry Harvey model so this is a working group document so we have some changes since last revision this model hires some dependencies there are two other document with depend on when is the IDF ki-jung T types another one is 32 party so post dependency models have been changed since last revision so we updated our model to align with them then each of those two documents has two modules so we need a line possibly all the other modules there another piece of changes would be the trying to resolve doctors reveal comments this is an ongoing process we have fixed the editorial errors and we will start still discussing the other comments which is ongoing so particularly this is one we need to explain the relationship in the hierarchy of our topology to the related dependencies we have argumentations we have a difference so we also imported some several types "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:25",
    "text": "model so this is need to be resolved and another issue this discussion was brought up in last IETF so it\u0027s about performance metrics unity reaction or link and the discussion was that usually for the accurate when we delay measurement we need the clock synchronization but in on some system such kind of mechanism is not there in that case the system where yours a two-way measurement to do the estimate divided the two way delayed by two so in that case the two-way measurement measure could be useful so crack you have more comment on this okay okay thank you Greg University City yes clock synchronization is important for accurate delay measurement packet loss measurement and delay variation are not susceptible to Quogue synchronization so so we\u0027ve had a few discussions that we also talked about this during our weekly meetings so the current approaches that we still keep that two-way matrix value of there and so could be yours for dependence situation and them so that we keep the model at this actually it would be useful if quark synchronization the question is that how it can be determined that\u0027s a interesting question and problem where the clock synchronization quality is sufficient so it may be the clock synchronization does exist the quality of the clock synchronization maybe not at the level requirement because there might be some applications for example Auto reliable low latency communication in 5g that requires very high quality of clock synchronization what I want to say is that using two-way measurement to calculate one-way metrics is useful what\u0027s important is that then it has to be specially noted that this one-way metrics is calculated based on two metric measurement case one says me "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:30",
    "text": "Rakesh Francisco so do you have both one-way and two it populated or you only have one or the other we have both you have both so in some cases if you only know one way then you don\u0027t have the two-way so it has to use that value okay because if you are how to wait then you can divide that by two and that could be one way and that\u0027s how you can compute the one way but you\u0027re saying it\u0027s one or the other depending on how the measurement is done yeah actually what I want to know is that there are been developed measurement methods active measurement methods that provide both one way into a matrix so for example t1 and stem protocols you can do one-way and two-way measurement so hold on there so uh right so back to laser modeling right so internal modeling do you see any changes need to be added to this actually it\u0027s very good question [Music] for stent protocol is a simple two way after measurement protocol we do have a portion that I have a separately the the synchrotron synchronization model separate the rights of it again as I mentioned I think that clock synchronization and quality of clock synchronization it\u0027s very it\u0027s a separate question and it something that I\u0027m not aware of methods to quantify it and how to monitor it how to measure the quality for their performance measurement we can discuss how your model related to stampy and model which is IBM working group draft right so please be reminded this is a team although we are not this is not performance metric for measurement model right so internal te T matrix here yes so we are using the three types so the krupin\u0027s there and if if you have something need to be added that that\u0027s probably more troublesome because it\u0027s already passed Rosco so and then if it\u0027s okay you can live with this then I\u0027ll take a look then yeah I was not aware of that but I think it will be good if ma if model that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:32",
    "text": "measurement protocol produces is easy to map into their model that characterizes link performance so after with I think we can move on to the next step then the next model SR I star model also arguments the nursery unicast to poly model and that could be a te so we in that case we were inherited from te then after last revision we also tell some changes to align the most recent the spring I saw young model so we took their latest grouping and use that we also have this model revealed by young doctor and we have a fixed some auditorium problems and then now we still discussing some issues to be resolved when is the one comment is about constraints and some of the attributes relatively to ice are we added those constraints to our model but I think in the better way would be to add those into the coping we are using fun so this is the ice our spring be our model so we talk to the houses up after days so we\u0027re trying to see if we can move those changes to the base model and also there is a discussion but the URI format user ID so this this is we don\u0027t have much we can do now because this is the base network to partly model which we inherited so about which tree which kind of format we want to use is you are I only want to use the screen but it\u0027s already there so it\u0027s just to whatever we can and after that to the match yes and we\u0027ll move to the next step that\u0027s it hi everyone this is truth I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:53",
    "text": "will be presenting two presentations the first one is on the Vienna yank so I think this we know that VN is the customer facing yang model which she uses lots of things from the T topology and the d tunnel model the relationship is as shown in the figure though nothing has changed here the main changes in the document is we added a introduction in the introduction section a details about how this model can be used in the 5g use cases and this is something that is being gonna be discussed specifically in the second half of the tease you have some topics on 5g so we also linked it up in the a CT and VN yang and we hope that this young model can be a basis for virtual network even in the 5g world apart from that the changes were mostly editorial so far and we\u0027ve made some clarifications in our diagram make the pointers to the JSON examples little bit clearer so that people who read the model can understand how this model uses the connectivity matrices of the T topology to show the relationship between the million members in the yang model itself one change was that we were using the LTP without reference so we changed that we have now using a reference so that it has to be asked configured in the topology model and apart from that in the yang model we added reference statement to make sure that wherever we are referring a leaf we have a pointer to a draft or an RFC so these were the changes but the main thing is the open questions that were discussed on the list and we don\u0027t have a resolution on that maybe the first one is pretty straightforward it\u0027s just a understanding question but that led to the bigger question which is can a VN member be from P to PE so the concern came from currently we define VN as a list of VN members and where a VN member has a source and destination a P and a P according to us is a logical identifier between the C and a PE so we always expect the C customer-facing information to be a key part of our definition of VN member but for some use cases folks are saying that they want to create a virtual network first and then attach the customer-facing information later so set up for instance a set of tunnels which are starting from P to P I am NOT attaching customer information now let me set up a set of tunnels and then when I do the customer mapping I can do the C mapping easier so the first "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:57",
    "text": "question is should we allow this and if we allow it what will be the possible ways to do it and some of the possible solutions that I could think of we kind of wrote it down and we had some discussions but we did not have any resolution so this is something that we want to work on between this and the next idea and hopefully close on this actually what do you suggest that you change the API I think it makes sense but I refer to the figure pair and I figure floating of the actn4 work actually the supportive you know for AP supported the customer view and operator view for the an opponent could be the C and it could be the P so we already covered that yes yeah so that\u0027s why just changing to AP will solve the problem but I think the bigger problem we should focus on is can we have a VN member without any customer with just p2p so so ap is a identifier between C and PE you need to have at least some C information what we really want your requirement is let us have just p2p we are member without having any attached C II so so that requirement we want to drill down a little bit and see how we can solve it so it\u0027s not the matter of what you call l1 l2 whether they are called ap or whether they are called endpoints I think the main question is should we allow e to PE tunnels as a VN member yeah yeah you agree that that\u0027s the main issue here you are yeah okay yeah no have I explained the second issue well because it\u0027s coming from you maybe I\u0027m misunderstanding this will be a good time to hash it yeah but secondly issue since you know you follow the ACM for my paralegal 14 you support a custom view and operate of view so you need to distinguish if you change if you have each other so how do you do that actually the solution you may propose you may introduce some indicator whether it is custom view or it\u0027s operator view another choice is you may introduce the additional maybe we call the node ID and to support this p2p connectivity yeah that\u0027s maybe the loopback one so you are fine with these solutions but I think the bigger question to the group would be that that what\u0027s what what do you think about this requirement first and then we can further drill down on solutions sorry so just want to confirm so when you mention the Lubeck actually it is already defined in the model you can actually yes you can use it as it is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:58",
    "text": "without making any change it\u0027s just an identifier we have done that for instance when you configure a vrf you can you bind the loopback interface to the vrf it\u0027s just like that like usually it is for the customer-facing interface but your loopback interface can also get binded to an vrf so I am kinda equating the concept of the there you don\u0027t need to change anything it\u0027s just when you when you don\u0027t know the information bind loopback later on attach the actual customer interface when you have it something like that yeah I don\u0027t know which one is a good pasture choice Chester when another option actually you can introduce some indicator to distinguish whether it is custom view or yeah that\u0027s another solution that make it clear what is it referring to like make it ap can be in between it could be just see endpoint or it could be a P endpoint so that\u0027s another solution which is coming for you why do you limit your comment actn why isn\u0027t this a generic comment oh why did scoped actn it\u0027s a that\u0027s nothing in the discussion I heard specific controller based yeah no no I think that this is the moto ad as I comment on it is that I want you this the model should be generic remote oh not a couple ways that a city and framework but I just a few example because you know that arrived from the ICT and framework so there\u0027s some example there\u0027s some figure so we may actually yes yes so we obviously could be used in many configurations right so my understanding is that you see VM as a node which has basically links open-ended links right and it\u0027s isn\u0027t it\u0027s the the responsibility of what you call tea service mapping to assign sees to to year so if it\u0027s all done it should be decouple to write it it doesn\u0027t have to come as a single thing you can talk about VM like for example like an abstract apology or set of tunnels independently from the users of that so according let me make sure that I understood your comment correctly you are saying that it\u0027s already there like we can do this right now is that what you meant yeah I I think that the VM as the service doesn\u0027t include clients of the surahs it\u0027s actually the model that map\u0027s clients for the service it could be done at the same time or later or it could be changed at any time all right you can take one C and put another one without any any modification of VM all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:02",
    "text": "right so I think it\u0027s perfectly legal to think about V and without seas okay thank you Daniela so I think the requirement to make sense but I quite agree surprised with ego because I think the PI ap doesn\u0027t necessarily imply the sea in the sense that you can have with the AP has one-to-one mapping with the P node and a sort of oak with nothing appended to it it\u0027ll all go see from away just a question what is the difference between a p2p VM memberid and why not using a tunnel model because I see a little bit I understand the V remember between attachment points I I try to understand why not using the tunnel model for p2p D do we want to talk about that once again [Laughter] yeah so this one is the recently adopted document so I\u0027m sure you all have would have read it and it will be fresh in your memory and what does this model do if it is not that we define the performance monitoring telemetry information so these are the two yang models which augment the T model and the VN model and it includes the performance the performance monitoring parameters which you could subscribe to and apart from that it also has this scaling information so most of the changes that we did in the recent this was to describe the scaling but much more clearly because I think the performance parameters were pretty clear but the concept of what is scaling and what do we mean by these terms that we are using that was not here so we worked on improving and adding clarification for that added a terminology section etc and also why are examples described the network autonomics part and what do we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "mean in the context of this document there was a comment with respect to what is the right reference for the notification mechanism the security section I on a section and all the other yang style guides and references etc thanks to everyone who commented during the adoption process while we made these good changes to the documents so regarding the terminology this is something that we kind of put down in our document the key performance data that\u0027s pretty clear these are the set of parameters performance parameters delay delay jitter things like that that we are monitoring on the VL level and T level we describe what is scaling in our document that is either you are scaling in your resources or scaling out so within the context of a tea tunnel of how your resources can be modified that\u0027s what we mean by scaling and with the intent what we meant was put conditions like while you are monitoring these parameters you could also put conditions that this condition on that parameter should be met and at that time I should scale in or scale out so that\u0027s what we meant by the the scaling conditions and the intent that we put so by combining the actual data in the yang model plus these conditions for scaling and scaling out we are meeting the requirements for network autonomics within the limited scope of the T and the VN model so that\u0027s how is with respect to the terminology so hopefully this can help clear up some confusion that was there earlier so this part hasn\u0027t changed we are simply augmenting these models adding performance parameters putting the scaling conditions etc with respect to scaling which is the one which we may have to drill down a little bit so basically how we are setting the scaling condition you are mentioning whether you need to scale up whether this is a scaling out condition or a scaling in what kind of metric you want to monitor at the time of scaling what is the value when it reaches that threshold that\u0027s when the condition is hit and also you have a ability to put multiple conditions that you can be monitoring multiple parameters so whether it\u0027s an aunt condition or condition min max things like that we could combine multiple performance parameters and threshold values via the scaling operation type and of course we did not we wanted to make sure that there are some durations involved that the threshold must be read must be met for a particular time and there should be some cooldown time before the same "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:05",
    "text": "conditions get hit again to solve those problems we had put these parameters and this is one example where you are scaling for while monitoring the two-way delay metric with a threshold value of 300 milliseconds and scaling conditions for utilized bandwidth for again some MB and by combining these two conditions you are saying that when this particular condition is met I must scale out in this particular manner so this is still work-in-progress this is the thing that we have we are open to suggestions on what is the best way to model this and if there is any suggestions from the group we are all yes thank you so when when the client tries to configure scaling of the tunnel right basically defines conditions defines thresholds so according to a model I assume that you have to take their leaves from their model and configure them properly right but what if if client has something in mind like combination of say two leaves that you didn\u0027t envision stuff like that so it would be very awkward so you have to go and modify the model so it means basically what you\u0027re trying to do is envision the logic of the client of doing such thing so well what I think the better way to do this is what net mode guys doing what for example we try to introduce basically some automation based on young which doesn\u0027t do it in the form of logic rather than in terms of configure beliefs defines the thresholds defines the combinations of different things that triggers particular event and actions according to this event greg- tzt in our discussion in IBM working group and with their feedback from those or using active measurement performance in the field on the network so what we learn is that min and Max are not very useful metrics minimum and maximum mean is a little bit more useful but what is most useful is a percentile and usually they do three levels of percentile 95 99 in 99.9 and these may be used as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:10",
    "text": "thresholds so once you have a test session you can determine their percentile of the test session and compare it to the threshold stampy and model stamp stamp it\u0027s a working group document IP game thank you craft about the te telemetry generally this model is augmenting the Tito Nova which is a very general and the technology free model so we have also the plans to integrate those kind of technology specific performance monitoring parameters here or we allow the augmentation for the technology specific performance monitoring parameters right now in T\u0027s of course we we don\u0027t but we hope like now if there is an interest we can take some work to seek out which can use this as a base and add any technology specific things onto it right now we don\u0027t have anything but yeah if there is an interest we can further talk about it what we can take you Zika thank you thank you emitter woozy from away and presenting the dimple assessing an extension for schirmer\u0027s protections on behalf of quarters and what is the use of this document is document as we recently adopted as a working group document at the beginning of this year and we have some just submitted before this that you have a new update with where we are try to address some comments we received earlier working group adoption one of them was clarifying the difference between SNP share mesh protection and SM RMS reservation as already defined in SC 48 72 and another comment we got was about what to do for APS configuration we have also worked with some new co-authors on how to describe notifications and we have new coders that provided input to this update so what is the problem we had arrested with notification what happens is that since the protection part that is reserved is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:10",
    "text": "shared by multiple protecting Alice pizza it could happen that the failure on protecting Alice pin number 2 will make unavailable for protection switching a protecting LSP number 1 and we want to notify the Edendale end of this protecting LSP that this part is no longer available such that it doesn\u0027t try to activate this part as the activation will fail and and the solution we have found is that we may be the solution could be that the node where the text susanna Binion available send a pattern or a reservation error with the sakoda policy control failure harder preempted them and also it\u0027s set the past state remove flag must not set it because the reason is that we want to notify the end until ended area the protection part is not available but we don\u0027t want the LSP to be tore down and we would like to get that\u0027s the solution we found but our discussion we were not under percent sure and we wanted to get feedback from the working group about whether we have resolved the problem and this exactly the right way or to implement to notify the endpoints not to activate a part but without tearing down the state and then when issues become an away available back again so the protecting LSP number two is no longer active you get the APS and then you go back to it put pattern reservation yes Perry from juniper I did not read the draft but something caught my eye why wouldn\u0027t you use soft preemption notification so soft preemption like resource not available and that would not tear down the LSB and maybe we can take it off okay yeah yeah almost not aware of this option okay yeah we can think about that yeah it is not to tear down and to let the end as the LSP is not don\u0027t try to activate it with ApS that\u0027s that\u0027s intention yeah okay good suggestion thank you okay then the second open issue that we are discussing is about the SNP preemption priority in edo edo tree there are the rules our order is that in case of competition between two different protocol SP trying to assess the same resource the first it will be used SNP preemption priority and if they have the same preemption priority will be the aps priority and if they have the same address parity we will use the LSP D\u0026D failure to decide which one of the of the two LSP will assess the resource and but after SanDisk we try to encode the SNP preemption priority defined in a tomato tree into GMP less at top and only priority but it looks like they are quite different because the MPLS a top priority in all priority unrelated to the activation on the state so to the setup of the LSP while the idea is that when the s and the protection LSP is preempted we want to keep the state "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:10",
    "text": "again as before so the ID our feeling is that we should not use the GMP let\u0027s set up and all the priority but we should have a new object that carry the SNP preemption priority and then we have two options one is to define a new object or the other option is to define a new field within the protection object and we don\u0027t have any strong opinion about which one of the two we prefer like we will appreciate any input from from the working group on whether you have a preference I think that the advantage of they did put they using the existing object means no new IANA location but may have impact on existing implementation so we don\u0027t have strong opinion but maybe others may have already defined we had a new flex yes\u0027m the idea here is to add a new field where you configure and I think is the three bit preemption priority bill yeah yeah the next comment is about issue is about ApS configuration here the situation is a little bit difficult the APS protocol is for further study in 808 or trim and the meaning of this is that the protocol itself which is using the plain the protocol and message format is technology and or vendor specific 808 or 3 is generic and it means that since there is no generic ApS protocol means that every technology can define its own one and for example in Ooty and we have it\u0027s basically vendor specific and and we need most of the ApS configuration is can be done before any LSP is a tapa so there is no impact on gmpls the only issue that may have an impact on the GPS is the fact that ApS protocol message when they request activate a given protecting LSP they need to identify the protection a lesbian and we think that may make some implantation meri use the gmpls LSP dent if I just identified the LSP or sort of a shinky like that other implementation may define an ApS identifier and this ap identifier needs to be configured when the LSP is set up and this has an impact on RSVP D because that\u0027s the time where you assigned is identifier and since this is not discussed in the itu-t data plane we are evaluating different options so for which we have not fully not only photos are in agreement so input from the working group is really appreciated the one is to kill say this outer scope since it\u0027s for further study in edo edo tree and let every vendor figured out what to do another option could be to define a new object and say is the content is vendor "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:11",
    "text": "specific third option could be to define a new object which is a sort of TLV structure where you can say some types are allocated for standard tracker in case of we have a standard technology specific aps we can develop we can say for this specific aps protocol that\u0027s the the days of the structure of the TLV and some other can be for example expert review or private allocation for vendor specific aps so i mean any opinion about what\u0027s the best approach because we don\u0027t have a standard reference for the aps so we do have these three options the please open issue we will get input and then we want to resolve this open issue and get further feedbacks and comments it seems to me that you\u0027re not being consistent and you look to see that to make sure you\u0027re recognized that you\u0027re proposing are aligned with with those RFC\u0027s in particular how you notify about errors and faults and protection switch over yeah well 4d yes the reason is that in the 40s 72 sm r LS the protecting Laspisa actually turn down when you have a preemption and no that\u0027s most my understand notifies okay when you don\u0027t have to change state in the intermediate nodes that\u0027s why the notify was used because then you can directly target that and they get a much faster switchover so your suggestion is to use notify instead okay okay okay symmetry as well okay yes okay and not saying you\u0027re not doing something a little new that\u0027s why we have the draft but okay thanks for really doing okay for the notification we will review that and try to align that that\u0027s a good suggestion but for preemption priority with the little bit different because yeah and I keep yes and there is nothing about that because the preemption priority for SMR is relying on gmpls a top priority but and that\u0027s with the fact that the preemption the prior the LSB is preempted and removed from the from the control plane and here what we want is to keep in the control plane and not activate that in the data plane and so I think is often - okay new feel the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:16",
    "text": "Redeem protection of okay okay okay and then what what about a PS configuration I mean it\u0027s just trying to allow people to add their own just basically to if they need to configure not everybody needs to really add a new object because if you rely on the GLSL expediently fire to identify your LSP in the data plane you don\u0027t need to configure anything but some many some people it may implement ApS and using one byte ID and then you you cannot get it but I know she has repeatedly said we have to be very careful not to be standardizing ahead of what the standard body that own these new technology is doing so I think we have to be a little careful here so I\u0027m I\u0027m a little bit worried about the options of two and three yeah that context so I think if we do do two and three we have to make sure that we\u0027re well aligned with the IQ TMS okay because at this moment in time there is no protocol definition in the specific so you prefer to keep it out of scope I suspected that don\u0027t embrace it okay you could say Deborah tell her I haven\u0027t following this one that ITU is this really the assumption and it\u0027s what my cutie the situation is the following eddo eddo tree it doesn\u0027t define any ApS protocol the sections is for further study so there is no generic protocol that applies to every technology so we in engineering gmpls we cannot define we have maybe to go specific and the only technology that is today defined for j4 SNP is OTN SNP or you SNP and in that case we don\u0027t have any aps protocol defined we didn\u0027t agree on the format so idea under the way everybody is deploying G SMP with its own SM people I think their opportunity lays on I to say we\u0027re doing this doc to document it it\u0027s when it\u0027s not working group yet but we had the requirements this is working it\u0027s--that\u0027s lays on and asked asked the question if what their expectations are because the other is we should maybe do a vendor specific one you or the authors "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:19",
    "text": "be willing to draft the liaison okay yeah okay okay okay thank you okay good afternoon this humming from Holly and I\u0027m going to present the interworking between the GM PRS and the central or centralized controller system so this worker is the 30 the in last month\u0027s and we have brief quick update in July to capture and incorporated some offline feedback from different operators and vendors so the main changes we also capture the open issue on the list between before the working group adoption to enable more interworking scenarios who is more explicit text descriptions on different scenarios so this time we updated by adding more details mainly on Marty Tom a scenario and we are continuously working on adding the multi layer as well so let\u0027s see what has been changing so far in the last update so basically we originally were focus on the kind of GMP RS domain what we have have been enabled on among the devices but now we are also received some feedback saying that this architecture should be general general enough to allow the interworking between the non-gm pairs to me and the GM parents to me so the red block is something we add to the figure saying that the architecture on the perspective of architecture the system can allow the interaction between the GMP RS and non-gm pairs but all the scope of this draft west still emphasizing the interworking between the controller and the GMP RS domain which is a red power part of this figure so and it is also worth noting that controller is a kind of generic term used in some in the system and it can be either the SDN controller or the traditional ms/ms system and the difference is between the difference is mainly about the different protocols used between the controller and network devices so and then we also update the scenarios by providing text on how to do the service provisioning and especially for the multi domain cases and from this page and the next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:19",
    "text": "page we are providing that has to enable both end-to-end service provisioning and also pass segment solution so this pay tree is about the end-to-end narrow and we have two we have two domains both enabled in GM PRS protocols such as we can run the r3 Apte protocol for signaling and in this given this architecture is a normal staff for provisioning and setup the RSP is to trigger the provisioning request from the orchestrator to one of the controller by using some existing young models in the restaurant protocols specifying IDF and also them and then the controller can transfer the kind of configuration to the head end node which is purely you done by piece app or not net calls protocol and then both the controller and the log history there are a ton of this itani in their job and the whole RSP enable would be covered by the head end notes and by using the RSVP tea protocols to do the signaling work and this processor can also be changed a little bit to make an alternative procedure and make best use of the controller saying that the to say the first step is still the same to trigger the provisioning from the orchestrator to the controller but the second step is slightly different because the both of the controllers in the domain can initiate their respective head and now the to start off the gen PRS signaling and we also assume that there is GMP our signaling in the domain and also we can we implies as the ero label is included the Internet\u0027s heater from the controller tools I had a note so this is what we have been done so far to make the scenarios descriptions more complete and we have also we have also have some considerations on provide more detailed about the multi-layer and the protection risk to toleration and also the controller reliability which has three subsections in the current draft need to be treated all the text and we are also targeting all adding more descriptions all non-gm parts domains are working which may introduce some different "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:21",
    "text": "issues than the previous version of traps that\u0027s how the date update yeah I may have asked this question before but I don\u0027t know our responsibility o ask again yeah so this work covers initiating the cannot set up all that lets me set up from the heaven just like if you see the adaptors it also include transit position and coming to you both provisional into em yeah it can be done end to end or segmented so I see a log segments being provision at every domain but do you also passes work also include the scenario very active go program every oh yes yes yes there you can do it so from the controller to each shop and just stitch it stitch every hop to form an end to end the RS billion thank you thank you you\u0027re gonna this is hi I\u0027m Adrienne yes so that we have a design team for revising RC 3272 which is the te architecture framework document that is about a hundred years old next slide so we\u0027re supposed to be revising it because technology has changed our understanding of te has changed and broadened and recent discussions in in a number of working groups in this area have become I don\u0027t know confused about the term te so we worked out that the terms in the document that exists are not adequate for today and the references are considerably out-of-date so we plan to revise it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:21",
    "text": "next slide so the chairs gave us a charter to make the update as a full revision not tweaks to strengthen the definitions and include new definitions as we needed and reference ongoing ITF work so the design team will produce regular updates and reports to the working group the time interval was not specified zero is a ray number by oh yeah so we were instructed to report in Prague which we did but that was really only as we were setting up and then produce an initial draft in time for Montreal which we have not done next slide so what have we actually achieved not a huge amount we met in Prague and decided how we would work and how we would split up the work and then we converted the current RFC to cram down to give us something a base document to edit and I did most of that AC created a github venue for us and put the mark down there and a few of the teams started to make some changes or whatever the magic term you used for doing stuff in github but then next slide we got stuck I think probably a lot of the responsibilities to being stuff is mine I completely failed to bother to learn what github is and there\u0027s a real lesson there about choosing your tools it\u0027s only worth choosing tools that the people who are going to use the tools will use I think that team may be sufficiently large that we all know someone else will do the work we are all busy people and we just didn\u0027t do anything so no draft not even close to having the draft ready to post next slide so I present the chairs and maybe the working group with four options option one reboot which we\u0027ve kicked the team that we currently have to do some real work option two is kicked that same team but used different "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:22",
    "text": "tools and techniques and hopefully deliver option three replace some or all of the team including probably me an option for simply give up on the idea of revising this RFC discuss to you personally the design team differently or the same or and please don\u0027t answer let me answer for me but then I think individuals in the design team should answer individually for them I think we should try for option two because I think that this is work that would benefit the area on the other hand I\u0027m not getting the sense that there\u0027s a huge desperate desire to actually do the work from so option for does kind of tickle away anyone else design team you want to say something even brisk and I think it\u0027s actually in my opinion it\u0027s asking too much from design team the the topic is huge it\u0027s in my opinion net amount Stoica okay several volumes of books so and basically to do it you either have to do it real seriously or you use option for hi rhetoric from with Jennifer\u0027s part of the design team I thought there was enough changes to review at least so that we can publish and zero zero draft partly they take the blame myself as well because part of the design team but I think we can deliver a zero zero version so I\u0027m leaning to two or one pleading guilty as well in non-contributing efficiently as far as understood option three looks quite pointless because you need to find replacing people on the first set of people failed to take the time I have afraid options really really quite fast to option for so for me between I\u0027m one and two it\u0027s up to the leader but I agree with deserve a second chance to try one more or two first I\u0027d "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:27",
    "text": "vote for trying one or two before anything else obviously we\u0027d like to see the work progress we charter because I think for a reason we don\u0027t really care what cooling uses so whatever helps the most productive I guess I\u0027m not leaning into the mic enough sorry I was saying whichever tools the the team wants to use is their call so for me option one and to the I\u0027m not sure the difference between reboot and rebirth if you get to choose your tool although that is the difference yes so the difference between one and two is if you\u0027d like an internal thing for the team yeah I think I think the difference is eternal from my standpoint that\u0027s a tea decision whatever works for you guys so I guess I\u0027m going to need some doggy treats and a little training in other words we\u0027ll proceed with the union of option one and two at the discretion of the design team which will continue to be led by you which you\u0027ll have to tell us form of doggy treats you\u0027d like yeah Julie treats that we should handle I need somebody young enough to know what github is and patient enough to teach me I could probably help you with you know young I don\u0027t have as great beard as you okay thank you we have six minutes and we have the next Danielle you\u0027re up next I guess we can get cookies early and maybe come back if you know we can start you want to start going not only if you want to squeeze into seven minutes or do you want to wait until I we\u0027re gonna stop we\u0027re going to break early we will have to start on time because there are people who "
  }
]