[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "foreign [Music] it's actually [Music] my small son from kindergarten nice yeah that makes sense uh Reese for the I guess two questions one for the slides that I uploaded uh are those oh yes let me see if there are because I yes it's ready to be shared I just wanted okay so later I can just share it through me Deco rather than yes and then when we want to go through the issues I don't think I'm gonna be able to share from my machine so I don't know if okay going to do it worst case I can do it morning folks good to see people trickling let's give it two more minutes until five past the hour"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:20",
    "text": "oh so would anybody be willing to take notes later please I mean obviously if we're discussing issues we don't need anybody to take notes but later we might I can only stay for the first hour unfortunately oh okay come on people that's an important discussion for Taps is anybody wanting to take notes please all right I'll ask again later um five pounds the hour I hope you're all here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "I've had people speak yet so I'll assume some of us are here uh welcome everybody to our Taps interim meeting and I uh sent an updated agenda in which we are going to be discussing potentially some of our outstanding issues on our documents first and then we're gonna dive into our implementation discoverability mappings and next steps agenda would anyone be willing to share their screen for for GitHub issues please Tommy said he can't do it today also thank you so much Michael for filing all these issues and everyone for yeah okay I can do it yay like uh thank you so much because this is in the browser strangely yeah if Safari lets me do it then I'll do it otherwise Oh you mean right away uh yeah okay sorry yeah uh let's see Grant English it's Queens here okay yeah yeah okay a lot of recursion here yep that's I can see you soon see that you you see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "it uh yes I can see it great sorry did you Corey's asking for screenshot as well looks good from Michaels yeah it looks good okay yeah yeah I did it's a mistake shall we go through this uh these pull requests yep sure all right um let's see I'll take you from the bottom I think uh mostly they should be easy yeah okay this one um I can see that Tommy here tried to get away from being just about sctp by saying for example but for example it doesn't really fit because that indicates that there would be a general explanation about this in the sentences before and then comes an example but it doesn't fit in that way so my proposal is to just explain in general when the underlying transport protections supports multi-streaming this can be done could we say something combined them like when the underlying transfer connection supports multi-streaming such as for sctp yeah yeah yeah yeah can do that uh multi-streaming um yeah is such as I guess you could just say such as yeah when the underlying transport connection when an underlying transport connections such as at CTP supports multi-streaming is that good sure yeah that's fine that's fine okay and if that's all right I'll commit it yeah any more comments anybody but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "not oppressed too early sorry you did it I can still change it I mean the such as sctp is uh shouldn't that be a that is right it should be in covers or brackets okay yeah I think it should actually be after multi-streaming when an underlying transport connections supports more yeah oh okay yeah in Brackets okay supports multi-streaming like this that works would be fine yeah that's fine okay to commit this that otherwise yeah this PR makes things a lot simpler all right and I'll match it uh oh it's still checking okay I can do it later um we have sand failures right I think gory had a few comments but I think they were okay and fixed um do you want to see the issue that's related to that I think the issue was that there should be something in the API about this and there is something in the API about this so this is just explicitly and mentioning the events yeah yeah and I just commented on a typo in there and we fixed that so that's good yeah right right you had those on that okay then I'll commit that one yeah that's right let's give this one okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "I can probably match the other one yeah I got I got it okay okay if you do that uh [Music] discussion text on receiving min max I think we were okay on this as a command from gory so no not no review from gory yeah and I just so the person was asking because previously we said minimum yeah like oh you can control flow control at the minimum and he was saying shouldn't say maximum and what I had suggested let's just say both because technically both can control your flow control anybody else any comments on this one yeah flow controls just like that yeah this was really just something that our reviewers stumbled over that uh it's at minimum here and he thought that maybe it should say maximum or should I say both or should it say which so we fixed that these are the easiest harmless things to do system policy oh yeah we have two okays already anybody any comments on this this was uh what is about even yeah there's an issue sorry yeah the issue suggested a number of things so one was just emitting that end Allowed by the system which I think is fine uh then there was a broader comment from the reviewer about oh should this all be normative and I I think we should avoid that yeah anyway part of this bigger other issue where we have to look through all the Canada I figured that we can close that issue discuss it there right um and then the other part was if there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "is an essentially not an error but you know if a connection can't be created because of some policy reason where does it when does it fail and I think that's what this new sentence here is saying is like it's when you create the connection like through initiator listen it's not on the pre-connection right which is good yeah that's what you were older this is a little bit I mean this can be read as you need to report when it's not when you have a violation even if you have some other that satisfies it right so that is not you only need to report this if you cannot find a solution you can't report all that Fame you're saying that if I have three paths and two of them are prohibited for me but I have another one that works that I don't report an error because who cares exactly yeah that's isn't that true and if I read this now it almost sounds like you know any ah yes maybe we should clarify instead of just saying such failures you say like if such failures prevent a connection from being established yes yes exactly exactly okay let me try to suggest text here I can do it like this if such failures I'm doing it already prevent it okay if such failures from being established this this should be communicated to the application by creating it when creating that connection okay I'll make it into a commander can take a look at it but I think that's does that work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:05",
    "text": "maybe if such fail yeah but maybe not when creating the connection because you fake when trying when attempting to create a connection yes yes yes yeah and it should be such a failure I think prevents a connection from being established it should be communicate application when it attempts to create a connection is that really a failure or establish I really I cannot create establish the common connection you don't want to say create establish you want to get rid of one of them no and then Philip is asking people but also create isn't really I mean what is create right do we have this pre-establishment that we have establishment because it is it is it talks about establishing anyway because they should be communicated to the application like this yeah that's good that's good production is probably not the is good and and then so my question still is failure the right word text on volume a bit like such a violation or violation yes I don't know why why I wrote to failure but this initiates probably didn't have just a moment um I think initiate is where you generally get the error"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "are you sure oh oh oh I think we have an event oh this is a separate event that's what I thought yeah exactly uh right so the initiate is not so you could probably buy an establishment error Yeah Yeah by uh establishment error event yes that's good okay that's good that's good three two one okay uh anyway I pressed the wrong button sorry system policy okay it's updating and then there was this from Brian with three your case do we even need to discuss shall we save time and just merge I mean these were all Knits open yeah I think with three people having looked and others maybe not caring enough we probably all agree it's almost that three two one pump uh intro update oh this gets a bit this is a bit more interesting oh it's normative statements maybe that's the right point to discuss them is this trying to close the big major issue from the guy not directly but I'm wondering if I mean if we have a statement like that would happen would that not be an argument to say that we shouldn't have anything"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "prescriptive or normative right because we we are very intentional about not having the implementation document be normative exactly so I mean on on the basis of having written that sentence here I thought we should probably just remove everything normative and don't make it lowercase and that would just deal with that isn't it already all lowercase well no maybe I can just check that's what I think it is we haven't we already had some kind of um consensus that we wanted to avoid uppercase language there okay I'm still added to the big issue so I don't forget this yeah I'm searching the document I do not see any normative language okay so much I think okay you don't see any yeah no I don't see any normative language anywhere okay cool to add to it okay then all right and I'm gonna I'm gonna merge this one if you're wrong it should be normative and that is what was confusing so maybe we if possible with the same words so I think this this sentence here is pretty important right it makes it clear that you don't this is just a list of hints and you can be free to ignore it all together let's be sure that we all agree on this but I mean I think that was the plan of this document so yes that would be a major change if we wanted to re-add normative language here so checks haven't completed yet why is that okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "oh no I can press the button oh okay this is uh Swift but these are not many pull requests and many more issues left oh yeah that's the bigger one from uh Brian I made a tiny suggestion which I think he committed already so there are two things here we can maybe look at the issue um well it is one one five three so let's see this one this was suggesting that there is no uh text at all regarding management of Opera yeah I think manageability considerations and we should have something yeah I think this is sort of like the stock up steer yeah um comment where's my operations and manageability section and so I made something up yeah they were pointing at like the system policy thing and you know we we had a bunch of discussions about this do we do we want to make system policy be a real thing and we decided not to right so so that's what this says yeah very much how you wrote this it does also this uh co-existence of the socket API question here that is also addressed so that's right which was like a like that was obvious to me but I've been looking at this document for five years right so yeah so is that the one yeah wanted to and have energy but then well we'll probably have done so yeah we should be doing this now we're gonna use this one right yeah right suggesting that uh we are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "rather than a colon yeah foreign I mean I think the text that Brian provided is fine and maybe we should intercorporate it but I'm actually not sure we need any kind of operational considerations because it's really an API document right exactly like we talk in yeah we do talk about sort of like the system policy thing and then we don't talk about it anywhere else in the other documents so I think that that having somewhere else we did that on purpose is useful we do mention it in implementation we're just looking at but it's you know non-normative it's not normative and it's not yeah exactly that's what I say I mean like maybe a little bit shorter version of the text you provided here might be useful but it really wouldn't call it operation management considerations just put it somewhere in the intro whatever I don't know yeah you want the different headline I don't want the headline I I think it's a standard request to people to provide it and we don't because we don't have it so it's fine foreign but the Helen is not there the headlines are not there what the headlines operations and management considerations very we don't want that we want to move this somewhere else yeah okay but then why don't we'd have to put it somewhere is the problem the the meat of this seems to be about the policy where do we mention policy and architecture can we put it there uh like up in section two section two okay I see I'll keep my hands off I tend"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:04",
    "text": "to mess things up I just put a command and I'll let somebody do it I suppose Brian and maybe we can take those look at the rest oh like Yeah so basically there's like up the transport services architecture and Concepts like the last paragraph there are Transport Service implementation includes the cache date and system policy I wonder if it could fit in section four right it's because there's section four where we have this big diagram and then we talk about system policy we are was that system is that transport services or architecture and Concepts is that exactly yeah just add this policy paragraph there yeah let me spend like five minutes editing text in the pr and we can come back to this I think I know what needs to happen I'll just edit the all that at the branch directly all right very cool thank you yeah I mean the other point is this um error logging or whatever which is not wrong but you know that's a very big topic and I think it's really out of scope yeah the error logging is basically just there to address the fact that that question was raised in the review I'm I'm less interested in that being in the document so if somebody gives feedback that we shouldn't have that or without it cool is there anywhere we would put in an implementation but I I I think it's out of scope for this yep cool I agree wholeheartedly okay um yeah then come a few more that uh well I mean I have to admit I didn't even just get too carefully read and deal with all of them it was a lot of luck to even just copied them over"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "um did does anybody want to discuss this I mean I can just make a stab at it after this meeting tomorrow or something and we can just I think it would be good to assign issues at least and then also for the one that is this big check all modal words we should discuss how we want to approach that okay so this particular issue since I have it open if I can do it okay that's okay because I think I've been dealing with groups a lot of it so I'll do that one and uh I was also gonna do the this one but I'm very happy if somebody asked us what I think what needs to happen is we just find these things and make sure that we don't make any prescriptive statements here that don't exist in the API so like if something's missing we should add it in the API sure but I mean just as a overall comment you know he's pointing out oh here's where you use can could May should would um he's saying like oh because it's not capitalized it's normative status is unclear my interpretation is that these are strictly non-normative and it's okay for us to say May and should if we want yeah nice question my suggestion here is we do one of two things one is we just write a sentence with the right at the top that just says this doesn't make any normative requirements"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "which we did it's purely informational we did that now okay fine the second thing we could do is I would happily go through and replace showed with whatever word alt to and may with Khan and whatever if people want it but I mean with that other sentencing I'm not sure it's necessary but I'll happily do it if you want yeah uh this may not help readability so much at that point right just make a difference it only makes difference for reviewers so I I convinced that if there are no normative language ever in the document and we just say it then we're done should I just thought that issue or essentially say that the question is is this closed by the fact that we added this explicit statement at the top that none of this is normal no I mean I I think I think what happened is that he has seen all these statements about what an application must be doing and not looking at your interface draft it made him think this should really be in the interface draft so I think it is worthwhile looking for the implementation job to see if there is anything that we say you have to do this and it maps to behavior in the interface draft to make sure that it really is there just to see that we're not missing anything I can do that it's an annoying job but I can do that I think it makes sense to be thorough here I mean I think if you want to do that crochet that that can of course be good to ensure that we are aligned yeah I mean for example this connection closing thing that he found something there that I thought we had mentioned in the information in the interface stuff but it really was on the implementation draft so there could be others shouldn't be but might okay so I'll write this here all right uh given that introduction"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:05",
    "text": "s clearly states that the whole document is non-normative uh the agreement is is to just check through all these sentences and make sure that all rules that need to be described in the API are really a prescribed a really uh written that ideally just delete the word just so it's like you're marginalizing the comments is to check fine and I'll assign it to myself and then I'll be happy if I can assign a couple of the others to other people let's see yeah uh the next one is three nomenclature and language needs so that was quite some text about uh we did did we address 1137 sorry 11 37 oh no I skipped up on by accident sorry racing yeah no that's it's also connected I would like to potentially just close this since he's saying can you make you know can you clarify what's normative and can you add some shoulds and must and I'm like I think we should just close it I mean this kind of follows from the other one right exactly yeah yeah thanks to clever which statements or no yeah because it's all just suggestions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:04",
    "text": "okay then I close it with this command uh you can say that we clarified that nothing is normative dumb beautiful tree text structuring candidates as a tree the usual term is root note I agree with that yeah consideration multiple candidates in the Gathering so it seems to me that this would be something to assigned to Tommy if I may yeah sure yeah okay that's fine thank you okay back to this handling marked connections oh this could be seems like it's I I believe I'm to blame for this I have a feeling that this is from me I would I would assign it to myself and see what you all think well I mean if anybody else wants to have it I'll be happy extreme responsible because I think the original text was mine I don't yeah I'm looking for it none of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "this seems like uh a huge problem I mean he's not pointing out that we're saying that some like some streams don't require a handshake and so and we just say like that so it's unlike TCP you're saying we should call it that it is like UDP instead it was like okay I don't yeah yeah I'm not sure if it's even valuable to change it uh because you want to take a stab at it yeah exactly understand it to myself I'll have a read again think about it see what happens um handling connectionless protocols that was the next world oh yeah this was I think also just a tutorial the reason I didn't do it yet is because he's proposing to shift some text from here to there so it's a bit more work anyone I can have a look at it it needs to move some suggestion here maybe an improvement to God all that information into this section I'm giving it to you it's a little bit unclear if anything needs to be done but I can have a look yeah I agree it's not super clear that yeah if there's anything wrong with the text yeah yeah but having a look is what we need"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "so listeners huh these were pretty long all of them to live a new connection and what controls the condition if the connection is mapped to a multiplex stream that was a weird one because we want that to happen automatically in either case this is describe the API definition that sounds like a I mean I think you shouldn't be in the API I think it should be something that can just happen or would it only happen when you when you clone I guess it may only happen when you clone which which part are you talking about uh this if the abstraction of connection presented the application is mapped to the multiplex stream I mean I think this is a artifact of how we say you know at the bottom different Protocols are mapped into Taps and we say okay this like the mapping of a connection for this protocol is this yeah and different protocols could choose to map themselves differently and so I think we're just leaving it open to say that something in the future that is technically multiplexing may not may choose to do it slightly differently well it has some implications because if you do Multiplex then you have these properties that if you change one it affects certain things that affects multiple connections right so they have this common this common Behavior right but for example like the for TCP the application the abstraction of a connection presented the application is mapped to the entire transport stream it is to Multiplex stream so that that is the other case and so in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "other cases like quick it is mapped to the multiplex stream yeah I think it can it can happen automatically anyway because it's exactly it's something that we can proceed I remember now we have a selection property to prohibit it if we want to but do you have to use clone for this to happen right no that's what I just thought but I think no I think clone makes it explicit that you want it to happen but I think it can also happen automatically unless you specifically say with the selection property that you don't want them to be grouped yeah yeah yeah yeah I remember that but he just wants a reference to the API doc as I understand it yeah maybe we just need a paragraph to see what I just said it sounds like he's reading it as an option rather than just an inbuilt property maybe maybe we should just rephrase it to say when yeah we're just clear about when it happens I can do that we might also want to double check for the API doc uh whether we would allow to magically mapping to things to um to Multiplex connections so let's say the HTTP case uh you're opening a new con HTTP Connection in quotes to send in um request the questions whether you would be allowed uh to be multiplexed on an existing connection yeah exactly so you specify the same house names you specify the same transport parameters is it fine so okay the only case where what I think this this could be interesting I don't know anyway um I assigned it to myself I make a make"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "a start with it and it shouldn't be hard I think it's just about being clear curiosity stuff uh I can't say even fully read this needs to clarify hard see what she did is handled oh this is kind of this is tricky how would we know where does zero two teams come from uh this corner case that he's pointing out doesn't actually exist right because if you select a non-zero rgtee a protocol that doesn't do zero rtt then it's not going to be zero but it's actually clear what I mean where it comes from because it's a read it's a read-only property right so the system knows right maybe he missed that it's read only how is it derived I mean well you know you look at the protocols and you know what they what they offer the minimum of them yeah that's what I will do because it says if it's if you have two"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "of them then then the minimum will be zero and the application will never get the benefit of fast open but yeah that's not correct exactly it depends on which protocol you pick so I think there's some other misunderstanding here isn't the problem that you have to create a connection in order to understand how much debt you can send into your rtt but then during crit during creation you already have to provide the RTD data but that is how much data the application is able to handle duplicate it so that is a different thing right than if the protocol can send it or not this is is another issue yeah you would always if you were able to do zero TT that means you have state from a previous connection or multiple previous and you look at that save state if you don't have any state then you can't do zero TT and so this Max message line is like infinite foreign could also be the minimum of all the connections or all the protocols that allow this kind of function and then the system tries and if it fails you give zero rtt data but it became a range of longer but then it's not a connection I thought this system property isn't this of this value from the application because this is what the application can handle that's what the cr2t message max length is right it's a it's a read-only property for the application here it is that's right maximum message size"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "concurrent with collection establishment uh-huh I thought it was there we have another one where you specify what what you can handle yeah maybe it's that one this is yeah thank you this message hasn't received never mind I mixed it up with another property okay this can only ever be a hint anyway right because it depends on the MTU and the path might have changed since the last connection yeah so extremely it's it's either the sort of protocols the minimum of the protocol specific um values yeah or something smaller based on a previous previous connection yes yeah maybe in the API it should also be specified a bit I mean maybe this would also be rephrased a little bit right saying to maximum exercise that lie that that you know the system is there is likely to be able to send or something like that represents an estimate yeah because it's not really clear anyway that it refers to can you just click there well well it's a see also section 9134 oh yeah safely replayable or that's just the Boolean for stating that something is curiosity data right or zero yeah this was the one I was thinking about yeah okay yeah so but I think you you either have to like call this value on the previous connection or it's useless and that's maybe something we should clarify I mean presumably is even the minimum"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "the minimum value of the sort of thing acceptable into you for the political or it's a value from the previous connection or actually how do we how do we define the zero rtt interfaces like when you establish a connection you have to provide the data right away right right well just be sent right away yeah so I mean useless I don't think is right because you have this minimum packet sized at all systems that need to be able to handle right so you can I mean there is there is a minimum that you can assume as the minimum of all the protocols the tools reports eurosity yeah but that's more a system parameter not a connection parameter what I'm saying is if you have to provide the data already when you establish it like when you create the connection object then it doesn't help you to ask the maximum length after that anymore because you already provided the data yeah yeah but I mean that number is known beforehand but then you need a difference then it's not a connection based interface ah or you have to ask the previous connection it can be a connection based in space because it can default based on the previous connection to that destination but then do you even have like an interface to ask something that your connection before you establish it and provide data yeah you don't have the connection yeah because you've got a pre-connection that tells you where where you're going to connect Isn't that with the pre-connection when you do zero Itt look look it is a readable connection property this right so you create a which is strange that's actually very strange right because now we have a connection that we can ask about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "no maybe maybe I'm wrong here yeah you can ask Siri what you've got yeah just throw it in your application which is stupid because the system's storing it down in the bottom bit so we've got it mixed up I think here yeah because you use that before you create a connection but it is a connection property which would only be readable after creating a connection that's what I'm saying now I get it okay so there are two solutions or we have to say you have to call this on the previous connection then use it for the next connection but you don't necessarily know which one you're going to be resuming yeah I don't think calling it before and keeping it in the application really helps because then you're going to erase different things to figure out what you're doing this is this is a crazy place to store it hmm it's that way I guess for you um today but we want to avoid it for tips actually UCI steel rdt so some interface that tells you if you want to like create a zero IDT connection but don't do anything just like select which one you want and then tell me how much data I have and then I give you the data foreign Ty is you create a connection and then you send item potent data on it right yeah yeah but usually that's one step right you create it and provide the data in the same call well Ness not always do we have an interface to do it separately because usually it's free Connection in this initiate with send right that's what we have right I think at some point we had had an initiate and then you send separately"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "and then now we have the initiative ascent on the other hand we have the pre-connection already so we can call it a pre-connection maybe that makes sense wait what were you saying you're saying that in the pre-connection we can ask how much yeah okay well then you require the pre-connection to at least have the destination set mm-hmm which it already has or you can just query it on different pre-connections article protocols so we have a pre-connection that could match a city here the HTTP and we accidentally have both open that's okay but I can actually give you a size for both of them exactly you get a minimum okay yep so this is no advice okay this is going to require changes to interface as well yeah right yeah do we want to I guess we could do it in one one PR then yeah please implementation it's not necessarily based on the previous connections isn't it it might be based on the middle of the protocols so they might just say well I do 500 bytes yes yes it it could be something hard-coded into a protocol but generally zero TT won't work unless you have some previous state but you're right that it's possible to do it otherwise no no no I agree with the state oh this is something I'm saying the length calculation could be done"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "based on the type I see that we have a name assigned to it so let me just go on here's the name no problem he assigned himself thank you Tommy so but do we even distinguish between connection and pre-connection properties really oh I don't think we have normally the concept that you can read properties of a pre-connection I think we have never forbidden it but we um don't talk about that we had discussions on that and we said yes you can read them if you don't know what you said why shouldn't you be able to read it it could just be a separate function on it I mean at minimum we have to clarify that it only can of makes sense to read it on a pre-connection yeah yeah exactly I mean for all other things it doesn't make much sense to read when it's a pre-connection just for this one it does because it created sorry I'm sure Tommy will find a great solution for you yeah we'll see yeah yeah definitely message framework clarifications that sounds like Atomic thing as well I'm sorry to say probably yeah the steps specification Define requires a part of a particular set of message framework applications which takes the defensive styles of not using them if they aren't required and so on and so on yeah yeah I I'll I'll take it but I expect any changes here would be quite minimal that's okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "yeah thank you um path changes if the device is able to redraw in with the same appear as a stateful transformation I resume I wanted to expand this a little bit to make the requirements clearer the connection can be with some sort of reasons uh no I I don't think this is valuable okay well I guess if we close up with that command we should have a better way to phrase that well right right it sounds like what he's saying he's like our original text is essentially just saying like look your five Tuple may go away and then if you come back yeah and because it can come back you know don't tear down your connections too aggressively what a given transport protocol does with this is entirely up to it um like sockets already can handle this like a TCP socket that loses a route to this cover I don't think we need to go into the detail of what every transport protocol does to do its uh data reliability again it's not relevant to this I agree that's what I thought we're not ready I thought well yeah sure maybe this makes sense but it's really part of the protocol it's the transport that decides this okay so does it just need a statement illicitly okay this is a more detailed description"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "of the Behavior or profit cost that uh Services System would be using we do not think that such details at here yeah okay ah it's okay oh mine as well yeah yeah now we have two yeah let's close it it's beautiful [Music] um specific transfer protocol oh yeah that was the one where we had quick Management in an example oh this is about mappings right it's like we need other documents yeah future work on mappings Boop Brian sorry I talked in parallel clothes with a pointer to future work on mappings Yeah okay or just take the label off and say like this is this is for mappings okay cool then we don't deal with it now because he didn't like that we use protocols as examples that we didn't have mappings for no neither do we but that's the way it is it is a bit awkward frankly but somehow it was nice to him that you know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "you could have other protocols than just TCP and SCP and so forth maybe if we put something as Brian was saying when we get to the mappings we say that this is mapping for a few of the key protocols and others can come what do you mean when we got to the mappings I mean in the implementation draft there is nothing more about mappings I think to be done no yes because you have first you have some yellow text right and then you have the protocol specific mappings or in the document yourself mappings for protocols such as blah blah blah can be expected to be defined in future and leave it Vegas to who and when PR is cheerfully accepted exactly if you would like to see uh having for dtls he's writing can we not write Shelly so what do we do I leave this issue as it is and we just go on yeah I think it becomes a future please yeah okay yeah you can write it I'll go to the next avoidance uh yeah I think that was asking for a bit more text regarding downgrade avoidance right you should use all downgradables techniques to specify for each protocol in the protocol standards we can write that sentence uh but I mean the architecture"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "Taps doesn't allow the application specify group protocols around properties right so maybe we just need a a reference to add app architecture yeah maybe back reference to architecture saying hey over here in section hold on right give you a section number yeah is it architecture or implementation that basically talks about that that's it's architecture right the security considerations see the security considerations section of architecture yeah as described to buff and equivalents oh equivalence okay it needs a name oops sorry select uh equivalent protocol stacks and assign it to Brian yeah yeah thank you it's just a sentence to add I think needs to be phrased right oh this I think that was an IPv6 RFC default address selection for IPv6 may be relevant and if so should be added I mean it's not just added it would be to be used somewhere so I don't know foreign like this I yeah but I I don't think this this is just the um this is what happens by default if you don't specify a source address right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "foreign [Music] if you don't specify the source address see here for an example of how it will be picked by the operating system ah I just said that as a sentence somewhere but do we do we want to I don't I don't think there's a good place to put it does it add anything no no just close it yeah it's fine I mean if you don't know how IPv6 works then you don't know how that bb6 works right like I mean one of the things about the implementation document is that it is not exhaustive about how to implement your entire networking stacks yeah I mean if it goes anywhere it will be the discussion of pre-connections in the interface here yes it belongs more in the API and the API already does have references or like whether or not we use a temporary local address are you okay with decrement it's an internal behavior of IPv6 which this document doesn't need to go into details about this basically if you understand IPv6 and you know you use it and that's what you get right exactly yeah close um oh yeah it's only the specific transfer protocol considerations isn't assigned to anybody yes I guess that's okay it's future work so then we assign that we think oh what about these here there was one yeah I I rewrote that that PR so let's have a look at it and merge it and protect it so we merge it all right here okay this is shorter now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "right input from an operating system on the floor can constrain an influence how can seems good to me yeah love it and it is oh yeah it's below the diagram it's where we talk about system policy yes exactly Let's uh change my command into OK somehow I don't need to do that I can just merge it find the buttons yes okay that brings us to the end of this issue list I think all right so we do these things soon and we're done with it huh can I stop sharing yeah very nice uh do we want to put an ETA on it or I think next week sometime that looks great yeah I think I'll be done with my issue in about 45 seconds very nice yeah I'll try to do mine tomorrow thank you oh okay so with that out of the way uh let's get into our next item implementation update and I will leave"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "Tommy has a slide set okay all right so you're gonna be setting context for a discussion on implementation let's take it away all right thank you yeah um these are relatively light slides but just a bit of a update and we can have other people you know chime in with what they're aware of what they think so we had previously had some discussions on implementations and you know we have a couple that we know of uh with within Apple we have our Network framework which is Swift and C there's also been a couple python uh attempts that we've previously presented on in this group and just the overall comment here that I wanted to make is you know these are not exact matches for the current API draft they're based on earlier versions or you know they have some slight inconsistencies there very much uh in the spirit of TAPS and they follow the general shape but you know you you couldn't port code exactly one to one between all of them I don't know if there are other current ongoing implementations that people wanted to bring up here but you know feel free to chime in if you want overall I think this strategy here then that's what I've been thinking of for our implementations um is that you know we probably want to see some rev of the API and implementations and see more implementations of that API once we have kind of like the RFC locked"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "up and finished and maybe we're at that point now or or maybe you know we just say you know in a couple months or so we'll be done enough and have the approvals such that we're not going to see a major change um you know since the goal of taps really is to have this API that allows transport agility but you also then you want this API to be stable enough over time and across different platforms that you can write at your application against this API and let the transport evolve it is useful to have that API be stable and so to have alignment with the RFC I think it makes sense to wait until that RFC is done um just as an example like I I don't we have not been updating the network framework apis every year to match up to whatever the draft has currently been because that would cause a lot of application churn and would not really be valuable to anyone but I think once we have the rfcs um what I would hope to do is have a revision of our public apis to align with that and offer more kind of compatible symbols that are really obviously Taps related not as a python Library author but I think it would be great if we could see similar updates and formalization of the Python bindings and this could also be an opportunity for uh seeing more formal efforts in other languages we'd had previous discussions um at least for our implementation of having C plus bindings potentially trying to pitch those as standard Library bindings as well uh it'd be great to see formal things can go and rust"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "Etc and just you know Drew this uh a little flow chart here so you know for the purposes of apis I think the first thing that needs to come to really uh cause the expansion of the implementations is having the standard uh reference that they can all use and build off of then we can see more implementation work we can see that after that deployment and release of the apis is things that are built into different platforms or into different libraries and then we'll see the application to option so all that to say I am expecting it to be you know a a bit of a road that starts with the RFC kind of finalization before we see the widespread availability and then adoption of something that is more formally taps I think it would also be interesting once we have this and once we have implementations deployed that's a you know we update our apis we get some other apis in other languages available to uh have a wave of trying to increase the awareness and promote those implementations and talk about how they are based on a standard right I think there's actually a there's a fifth step here after application adoption which is relevant to the working group which is probably updating the rfcs um at least this is what we call on ipfix right like ipfix with standardized based to off you know largely off of Cisco's implementation and then a bunch of people tried to implement it and um that led to significant simplification of the like the internet Standard Version and and I would expect that we're probably going to see that too if we get if we get to to stage four I think that you know uh either the tax working"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "group or some area successor organization should probably take on moving the rfc's to internet standard because I suspect we're going to learn a lot that was actually my last sentence on my last slide of hey you will probably need to come back like you know one of the questions Martin you know in general the chairs and ads need to consider is you know what do we do with the group and we can do work on mappings but the other comment here based on this chart is yeah like we'll probably get feedback we may want to do some businesses at some point uh which is like a long cycle so you know maybe one option is we you know go dormant for a while then have the option to close or reopen based on feedback we get um yeah so totally agree with you Brian there for the mappings work I think that is the only other thing that seems clear that we could do document wise quick and HTTP are the clear candidates uh I I would still need to revise the work I'd done for the quick one I don't think it's likely that those would exist anywhere outside of TAPS um we would certainly want to cross pollination in review but I I don't see a world where the quick and HTTP protocol groups would actually be defining these so if we want to see them happen we should do them here uh and that's all I have so what do people think yeah Gloria had some has a hand up yep yeah well um on would it be adopted in quick Martin thinks it would be adopted in quick so is it totally unfeasible that quick"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:04",
    "text": "I I would be surprised if it were um I didn't exactly promise that I mean I think I said that um it would it would certainly been setting aside the Practical questions like I think it would be nice to at one point we kind of had this and then the different protocol groups could could then do mappings rather than just sort of be in the matching business forever and Tommy's the chair they see this of course so I'm going to refer to his guidance there um I if we're interested in showing the Downs like I'm uh I think it would be sensible to to ask quick um what they think and if they want to take it um I mean certainly there's a lot of the same people so I don't think so the quick working group would have plenty of caps experience that wanted to take this on it's not like it's um I don't know like uh Co-op or something um on the on the dormant question so I don't think that head is is on right he's not on right now um and I haven't discussed this with him so I'm not so take this with a grain of salt but his pattern and RM cat was to leave it open until the um until the documents got published so uh that gives us a fair amount of Runway to be dormant assuming these implementations are forthcoming relatively soon uh but did you mean especially thrilled by the Arabic yeah but Martin I mean I I assume you just mean the base rfcs being published and like given my phone I don't expect I mean you know once once in the RFC editor Q then I think it makes sense to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "do a revision but you know for ourselves uh with our Network framework like we do you know major API revisions normally come out in June uh that's not going to be this June because we don't have it all finalized so like maybe next June it would be like the earliest that it first goes out to have any developers try and then we want to talk about other languages like I think it's a much longer time frame than the RFC is being published okay properly dormant uh and you know come back if we need to or just resurrect the group if you need to sure um before I give up the the floor here um so the other thing I would like to sort of mention as a possibility here is my my transport Discovery draft um which uh you know I my previous employer I was excited about I'm not so excited that my current employer uh and just to briefly remind people of the idea here is that if you like user space protocol implementation implementations there's like a secure way just for register those with the Taps that's running over the OS so you can use them and I I just briefly ask if anyone who actually has an attack supplementation is interested in that and she'll be resurrected or is it dead so we have a discoverability configuration as an agenda item but but yeah I think it's an interesting question for this item as well but Aaron has a hand up yeah sorry about that I'm trying to take notes while I'm thinking about what I want to say um I uh I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "um this is coming from 30 000 feet which has really been sort of my involvement in the working group for a while now um but it just seems to me that the uh you know the active group has become really down to just the sort of the Die Hard authors um and I feel like um uh the um what occurs to me as a reasonable way forward and I'm just putting this out here as a a proposal for discussion not really even a recommendation but um what seems intuitive to me is to um have the working group go dormant and leave the mailing list open as a point for collaboration between the authors and any implementers and then um when you get a critical mass of topics um you know when there's some like you know pressure to create a charter and restart the working group to do that and I don't think it's clear that the mappings work I mean we've tried to to see if there's a a critical mass folks who want to collaborate on that it looks like the answer is probably no but if it turns out that if somebody takes it up and they run into some problems um and it generates like some interesting discussion um then uh you know that might be sort of an example of an anchor that you could use to uh to reset the charter but I feel like just starting to add more topics onto this what it's going to do it's just going to put more stuff onto the plates of the folks who are on this call now um and um it uh it seems to me that what we want is to get you know some people who are motivated to drive the work forward um because it's useful to them not because they're invested in seeing Taps out in the world um so that's sort of my two cents foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:07",
    "text": "largely agree with that um what we seem to me to be too keen on closing working groups and which raises a very high bar to restarting the work rather than putting a milestone for three years in the future that says sort of review status and decide whether to continue or close down um I I guess you know the mappings are yeah it's not clear we have the energy to do them for the follow-on implementations I think it would be nice to see implementations and standardized apis for like rust for example um do we know of anyone who's doing that work or your other plans to encourage someone to do that work uh Tommy I mean just to answer that I don't know of any you know particular commitments for those but there are some cases where it would be there'd be some candidates I'm aware of who would be interested in doing that stuff but it will be easier to get those things going with an RFC in hand yeah I mean the rfcs will appear pretty reasonably quickly I would think all right but yes I agree that's Brian it might that sounds like I keep the list open and keep the working group open but dormant is is what it sounds like that discussion is converging on am I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "hearing that correctly I mean that it makes sense to me but what I was trying to convey is no Charter No Agenda no meetings but an active mailing list yep so the other option would be leave the working group open and Charter click and HTTP gender um protocol mappings for in three years not sure if we want to put something on the shorter if we don't have anybody identified to do I mean one thing we did in RM cat was to add a milestone for like a couple of years in the future from from the point where the documents happen to say so you review um your review review whether there's been any implementations and whether we need to progress with the group or close down um I'm not sure what the difference is between like running with no Charter no deliverables and no beatings but closed is different from just being but open as you think different from being closed because ultimately you'll just have to I mean closing the group doesn't mean that we can't reach outer it someday and bring it back if there's like a lot of capital specific work but I'm not um the difference is activation energy to restart it I I think that the activities that are required will be the same regardless so it's the same activation energy as far as I'm tracking unless you think it's a perception issue which creating a new working group is a much bigger esque than uh you know resurrecting an existing group and just saying so do we need to do any work here let's revise the milestones"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "well I I guess I guess it depends on the Goodwill of the transport AIDS at the time which is something I can't I'm not a responsible idea anyway but I can't really oblige the the um obligate the future ads to just sort of say yes this is an obvious thing and let's rubber stamp it to start again um I don't know how I mean obviously none of us know how big this this would be if it's a small business a small dish rather like I mean it seems like a good fit for tscwg um so I think you can certainly make a case this work and go elsewhere but if if this group has a lot of energy to like go do a lot of task works and um I suppose it's fine for it to be a different working group but I I do think that we get more eyeballs in these other working groups and they all all those working groups have a critical mass of like tax people yeah so I'm I'm as much as I would like to come back in two or three years and do a version like I think we can only guess you're wrong so I think if we if we do that what will happen is in two or three years we might just decide to close the working group then so I think we should rather close it now Martin is probably serious when he said tsbwg could kind of um play the keeper and do a small thing or do a presentation to try and bootstrap restarting this work that would seem well within the charge what tsbwg does so maybe putting the thing dormant for three years with the only item being a milestone to see if we ever wake up seems like a bit of an odd creation really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "gory just to a clarification did you say uh putting uh doing a tabs Biz would not be in scope for tspwg but only you know coming and saying oh we could restart tabs or no no no no no I mean once the ads closed the group if there's relevant work on a topic which has been previously published in another working group then there is an expectation that that would be bootstrapped somehow by tsvwg whether tsvwg takes it tolerance as well that speed to work we'll work on or whether it's talks to the ad and after it's being talked about and we say it was critical mass here how do you want to proceed maybe they want to quickly spin up a working group or place it somewhere else that's okay the difficult bit is getting to the state where you actually have a document and then a group of authors and then people say I want this published so that bit could be done and I you know I had already been thinking like for the mappings depending on the timing you know certainly a quick map I mean would make sense to present to quick but let's say you know quick was interested wanted to review it but said at not really in our Charter to do this API mapping work then we say okay you know the quick mapping document lives in tsvwg as far as how it gets published um that is you know an option we could try didn't we already try that with quick like I don't know a year and a half ago and there was an interest I thought that right I think it was more than that it was quite a while ago um so I guess the question in my mind is whether um Taps is sufficiently defined I mean going back to the uh go back to your your phase chart Tommy because I think this is this is I think the way we should be thinking about it um you know what we want is application adoption and is tap sufficiently defined"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "that we can do that you know modular the fact that we might learn things that cause us to want to make changes um you know is there is there enough Taps to enable that and if there is then maybe we should put the pens down and let that work happen and figure out what the issues are um rather rather than invent issues um that we you know we don't know what they are yet or you know be a a zombie working group um if there if if the gaps if you know if the mappings are a blocker and the other working groups are unwilling or unable to do the work then then that's a reason to do it right that means that our work isn't complete so error when would we know because I mean I can see the case where we might um if after three months after publishing people it already goes wow we want to implement this is too far out so do you have thoughts on how far well so I mean I I defer to our area directors but I think we have an obligation to keep the working group open until the rfcs come out because you don't know what's going to come up in the editing process um that's there that we want to bring in more than just the authors um I mean I don't think there's a race to close the working group but I think you know what we're talking about here is whether we want to identify new Charter items to work on right we can just sort of we can leave the group open in in you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:02",
    "text": "know kind of keep it flexible for a while but I I don't I think the question we're talking about here is whether we want to identify work items and rally uh the 12 folks on this call because there don't seem to be many others to uh to do that work and um uh and um I just based on and I I'm not close enough to the implementation efforts and and Martin did say that there was somebody wasn't ready to identify themselves but if um but the sense I've gotten from Tommy's comments is that it's going to take a while before we start to get really useful feedback from not only the implementation committee but also the application community on what to do and it seems like you know uh what are we going to do between now and then other than like try to to justify our existence as a working group so I just don't you know I don't want to be I don't want to dissuade people who want to push work forward but I'm just I'm not hearing anything other than people who um want to be available if something comes up and we you know we don't have that something yet I'm right on that last sentence you made as in I would love to see this thing fly I think it's really important I would happily make time available to make the next tax document but I feel what the responsibility here is that someone has to enter the room and say why that document has to be written so if it's Tommy coming back saying hey we implemented it we now have more wisdom we want to change it that'll be cool if it was someone else with the same thing or someone wanting to come and do something that would be different to us saying and we want to finish the work and therefore we're going to add management um system policy nibs really quick is what we're going to say but it falls in the same thing because it's not us that's going to do this it's somebody going to come along and say Taps is wonderful it doesn't support"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "quick but I want to do it and it's the I want to do it that really has a big swear with me right I'm trying to catch up on the on the chat Brian can you can you unpack your comment yeah uh no there's no blog post my yep was to yes we're going to it's going to take a while right like it'll take years I was yapping something that Tommy said and the thing I hadn't seen miria's thing we don't have a we don't have a a blog post somebody should write it I mean I think I wrote one for apnic like a long time ago when this was you know before we were mostly done but uh yeah I mean I'm I'm happy to I'm happy to to collaborate on that with somebody um Michael Tommy yeah and you know we should you know talk to Craig Wood et cetera um exactly but I think it's like as I'm drawing here once we have an RFC and once you know we have you know it's like our API has updated to match the RFC or whatever like once we hit some critical point of like okay the API is implemented and you know you can adopt it in a couple different languages that's when you want to do the push and I think that'd be a great thing to have the working group list open for and all of us coordinate on what should go into that but we don't and you know maybe even we you know co-opt some tsv area meeting sometime um and you get some time there to talk about it but we don't need the working group to be active to do that okay so I'm curious what that is to say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "I'd be very happy to call to contribute to a blog post or something like that but I also agree that it would be great if Apple at some point further down in time understand that it's going to take a while but if at some point uh there will be a more clear statement about really being aligned with Taps you know towards the public because I think this could also have an influence on other developers potentially okay people can we please start using the queue because I'm seeing people in the queue and people talking who are not in the queue excuse me please yeah thanks thanks for reminding me using the queue yeah I mean I joined late so so thanks for keep continuing the discussion I think I'm I'm at John late but I'm getting like very gist of what's Happening um just to answer uh goris Christian like how long we're gonna um keep this we need to keep this working group open uh the options are basically um we have the if everything goes fine we go into um RFC editor artist editor r48 I would like to keep this working group up and running until the output is done so that anything changed in the document that we have a chance to actually call on a working group and say like the changes make sense the other option is like all the things like we can close the working group right now and I do ads launcher or like anybody any area register does an area sponsor that's like a list preferred option for now um what are the other options we've been hearing like the dormant and all this thing I think my preference like close if we are not doing anything we're waiting for information to happen um then we close the working group and come back again later on with all our um questions and other other things and then you have like tsbwg quick or other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "working group or just somehow keep the test mailing list open so we can have discussions there rather than having that working group open um so that would that those are like my preferred Solutions um so keep the what types working on until we published RFC and then also keep the mailing list up if we are closing the working group um anything else other than that would need some sort of thinking and why you should do it just my couple of cents here thanks Thanks Martin yeah regarding just this Outreach thing um it seems to me that our actual blocking constraint this point is os's um I mean the value proposition that app developers is look you can like write this and run it everywhere right now everywhere is iOS um so like rather than just I mean I can't block those are good and it's something that we could point to but um to the extent there's like a Taps cabal I think we should try to try to actually actively Target um OS communities whether it be you know the Linux Community previously someone going over to Microsoft and sweet talking them that would actually be and you know of course Android as well uh which I guess Brian and I would have to have the ball for um that would actually be I think the most effective way to try to get it get this to be a major um a major part of the ecosystem okay Aaron so I have a uh um a question that will uh as usual expose my ignorance um I think to the uh to the rest of the group which is um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "uh I'm thinking about like one of the other areas that has uh activities that has been useful in encouraging integration implementation has been um you know the hackathon um but I you know I think what we're talking about here is sort of implementer support answering questions helping people understand things you know make trying to make it easy is the hackathon a useful form for doing that um we've also done some Outreach I think Maria went to uh like um you know like Linux networking stack conference uh kind of thing I'm I'm uh I'm reacting to Martin's comment which I think is really dead on which is um you know to enable applications we need to support OS implementation um what's the best way to do that uh I was going to make a comment to Martin um that well you know while I agree it's critical to have this available across a diversity of os's it doesn't necessarily need to be the OS implementers doing it uh you know it's certainly I think viable to have it be libraries that are open source and cross-platform or implemented in languages I know in the case of Android it's very very difficult to get things in standard libraries but you know people use chronet and people use other libraries that are not quite baked into the OS and I think that's a very viable option and I I think there are people Beyond Apple's implementation who have been talking about libraries that would work cross-platform on FreeBSD Etc so that that should alleviate some of the pressure for other os's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "and I agree that the hackathon would be very cool probably once you have maybe there's two projects right there's some of like hey let's make the library work on FreeBSD and then there's the other one of hackathon people you know please start writing your code in Taps and see how that goes would soliciting maybe uh like an ia uh sorry um internet Society grant for uh implementers in the open source World be a useful thing here Maybe but we'd probably want to identify implementers first right I mean so like we can certainly help with that with that framework but um we'd want to we'd want to identify like people to do the actual implementation work before we go it's like let's get some money and then find implementers I think is not a great model for that for the ice hock grants yeah that's that's more likely to be successful if we if someone is seen to be doing the work and then can be given some money to to be encouraged to keep doing it to make your you know production strength for you I think [Music] okay all of that makes sense to me I'm just noticing we have 17 minutes left until on top of the hour and I it occurs"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "to me we're already discussing our next agenda item what can we do to Foster deployment of tabs so I wonder if there's more on that right now because we haven't really talked about discoverability configuration however Devon isn't here and we also haven't talked about mappings in like concrete terms I would like us to at least touch on that so are there more thoughts on deployment for now or so on the deployment topic I think they made a good point do we have all of the missing pieces and I guess you know the only way we know that might be if for someone Trace to build another implementation how useful is Taps without an http finding this question I think my main motivation going into taps or moving that stuff forward was originally trying to do fancy stuff with http uh and additional socket options and finding that this socket API was completely unfit for it and so I think as we see that most traffic today is http and especially if I look at what I'm doing my day work at the moment this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "this is 80 HTTP at least um I would say this is extremely valuable especially if you think about programmers that often use http apis and would love to see it more on the operating system for from there I would say having an HTTP mapping and probably also nice HTTP implementation would be really valuable a large boost for tabs that the HTTP thing I think we should also need to consider about the web transport work that's happening in iitf I mean I I really doubt like HTTP people would would use anything else other than a web trans when they need transport support directly manipulated from the web space um so you also have to convince uh people like why we need an HTTP tabs mapping if the deployment is not there um so I think um web trans is quite of orthogonal to Taps mapping because web transport is just piggybacking different transport over Taps uh sorry uh over HTTP so we I'm rather talking to application developers that are not within a web browser but just using HTTP to access apis and other stuff and so yeah so Philips how much of your 80 traffic that you see and HTTP traffic is from non-browser application and how much they need need depth support for their their things so there's a lot of non-http traffic that is not web browsers um do you have any number like so that we can judge that okay now I have no concrete number of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "but I've I've seen a lot of uh API traffic in the in the background where we just have a rest model to connect some sort of API and usually the libraries used there if you're lucky it's uh actually lip curl if you're unlucky it's something that isn't able to do anything close to happy eyeballs and if you're unlucky it does not even um Implement a connect call based on Stevens but just trust the first not dress and fails badly if it doesn't work so having HTTP support in this socket API is it's a big selling point but on the other hand most of I'm I'm seeing that that's not uh eyeball traffic is a lot either implemented in go or as implemented in a JavaScript or it's implemented in Java and using these worlds apis which are not perfect to be honest yes I mean yeah I mean I mean those coming into those weird things like would be benefited upon HTTP mapping over tabs I mean if there is representation from them asking for something that we know and we can judge and evolve it so that we have a problem to solve there actually then it's a good motivation um otherwise we need to dig into bit deep so we work on a real problem yeah okay press yeah so I wanted to not just towards as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:02",
    "text": "we're talking about HTTP mappings and I saw a comment about quick mappings in the chat what's the status of a or quick mapping document which exists but I believe has expired and be in a potential HTTP mapping document do we have any volunteers to contributes tell me um I mean I I had written that quick mapping document I'm happy to keep working on it uh as time permits and also happen to help work on HTTP it would be useful to have you know other contributors or co-authors um I I've based some of the mappings on what we have done since we have implemented both quick and HTTP in here um but I I think to be viable to be very useful to have others who come from other perspectives be able to contribute as well was that you're asking for tax contributions or a co-author or both I I think a co-author so it's not coming from a one-sided viewpoint Michael oh whoever wanted to oh we have a Q now okay I can say it first lucky then uh so yeah on the quick I think Martin Martin you made a comment um if it is a quick mapping and then quick working on perhaps we'll have more audience and more like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:00",
    "text": "um expertise on those those kind of things um so the suggestion was like that work could go to a quick working group or something like that anybody has any concrete comment on on Martin's View I just wanted to know sounds like no we can't hear you yet I think we briefly talked about uh whether or not a quick document would be a quick mapping would be I guess how it would be received in quick I forget where we landed on that okay so so tell me what do you think about it right we have to ask the author can you clarify so uh the the I think the comment I I saw from Martin Duke was like if we're doing a quick mapping of taps quick working group would will have like more audience and expertise to actually because they will be the mostly the user of that API right a mapping so it might be good to actually move that word to Quick work we've done it rather than keeping it in Taps I mean I just wanted to know like what all other people here given I mean years ago we had talked about it to the quick working group and there wasn't appetite at that point no that was also a long time ago and before we were even doing multi-path quick Etc however I my guess is that it would still not be something that the working group the quicker working group would actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:01",
    "text": "want to take on given that that is where the protocol happens like we didn't do the TCP mappings in tcpm um and I I do disagree that I don't think it's the people within the quick working group that would be using the Taps mappings right it's the people who use the Taps mappings for quick are arbitrary application developers who don't want to know what quick is they just want to be able to check a box to say I want this cool new quick thing and get that via taps um so I think it's more likely that we would review that work in quick but run it in you know either some form of this spring group or in tsvwg okay I mean I'm just hearing if anybody else have comments on that one so this reminds me of trying to decide on that one I mean that's like not the not the point here pointers like if anybody has any other comments other than what Tommy said so this reminds me of um you know early on in uh in Taps we tried very hard to engage with the apps area when it was just the apps area um to um you know to try to identify users and users needs uh from taps and um uh I'm taking my Tommy's point which is a good one um you know um but I don't know if we've got the inside of this group because we never really had like great participation from the apps area um uh but but it sounds like the you know the the place to to focus on user support are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:02",
    "text": "people who who would get benefit out of TAPS but don't understand it enough to be able to use it or don't uh or uh uh not don't understand it but uh but um would use it if it existed um you know so early adopter types um you know uh I guess Tommy's got a captive audience uh at Apple or uh I don't know if it's captive or not but uh but at least uh in-house uh users where you both provide an operating system in the applications um you know maybe we should try to find a you know some other examples focus on me supporting them okay Corey yeah you you know we kind of half got there with with the idea of taking something to hackathon whilst it was an RFC and Tommy had an API and okay so is anybody interested in I guess"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "we're not talking about the next ITF for the hackathon thing right but is anybody interested in taking this on and like when trying to post office so like we're talking about like right a year out yeah or even further okay okay got it so what is what are our next steps for now I mean obviously we're finishing existing documents wait right so it doesn't sound like we're ready to jump in and have a meeting at iitf117 for example or yeah I I think that I think that well I mean foreign we're talking not an ietf meeting this year possibly toward the end of next year depending we probably want to another next step is is the ITF blog post um we probably do want that to come out around about the time the RFC goes uh and I'm happy to I'm happy to hold a pen there um I I would like some help on that but I'm happy to hold the pen there I think we do need a meeting in shorter time frame between this group of people but that's probably an open side meeting to very good at organized yeah Prague"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:02",
    "text": "might be good time for that yeah yep a side meeting about what specifically since it was my plan for my plan that actually probably came from Tommy in creation I mean the idea that we the rfcs have been put out there and we can plan a hackathon around it that's going to require a bit of planning as well so we do that and we figure out what we're trying to do and maybe at that point we bring anything else bubbly tough and say well tops is still active but this is not happening in the ITF yet but but we kind of discuss it working out I think this is a useful side meeting and I think we could even make it a little bit public by pointing people out while tapped isn't meeting as a working group so there's no active documents but come along here if you're interested in Taps to see if other people turn up or not if they don't we can still plan it if they do all the better okay sounds like a good idea any last words tell me all right hello just thank you all good to chat yeah thank you Tommy yeah is this the moment to say thanks for the fish yeah no I'm impressed we still have so much energy going okay uh cheers I think you uh you too and I need to talk a bit more perhaps on these things but let's catch up on that later thanks for today all right thanks folks bye thank you all bye-bye bye"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:06",
    "text": "foreign"
  }
]
