[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:10",
    "text": "Hi, everybody. I hope everybody gets seated. Welcome to the, IETF11A joint ops area. Actually, only ops AWS session today because for the first time, we've split this up into 2 sessions. It's a session number 2. If if the one on Monday. So, otherwise, hello again or hello. Okay. This meeting all this has been recorded, and therefore, also subject to the note well. Note well has double content. So you, ever you say that, say, copyrighting the, I wanna say, let's say, rule whatever you say here goes on record. And multiple ways also IP wise, excellent piece. And there's also a note really well, which is basically, well, of conduct and not content. So whatever you do, I hope that you treat others like you want to be treated. If that is not the case, you can approach the chairs, the ombudsman, the ADs, there are people here that you can, approach your confidence if you think something is going wrong behind the scenes, we can't see everything. And I think that's important for us that you have, encouraged them to approach us Right. There's a tool. Please, everybody, and this I mean, everybody either scan the QR code It's not a trick. With your phone and then be with the uh-uh hand raising tool online here or just join the full fledged a meet echo via the agenda or data tracker. That's important for us because that is the new blue sheet I know that there is an actual blue sheet, but this is yet again"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "only this QR code. Yes. So in order to track attendance here, and to assess how many people are in a room physically. For example, we need these numbers, otherwise, we can't plan future meetings. If you find any other issues with the tools, I would recommend the link at the very bottom. Please fire issues if you think something is really going warm. My echo has a very wonky feature that I have never seen before, and file issue for that. So, yeah, I haven't introduced myself and ourself, today. So I'm Hank. My esteemed coaches at Iran. And Joe And, we will have to stall on something that is called the minutes takers. Every session has to be, has notes, have sub notes, on the data tracker, there is a note link. And, if somebody cuts, a put put hastily note link into the chat that had would help even, I think. And, we need, volunteers from the audience, from the attendees, to take notes, which does not mean that we have to record anything with our team. But if there is a decision point, especially with, document progress. Or some other discussions that are on the mic. Not in the presentation these should go into the notes. So we need a volunteer, and we have one Rob? And an No. No. No. Bob Wills. Oh, no. No. No. You You are the auto default, but that is all. Thank you for that. And, Rob, if you could, would be the safety net then then we have a okay. Okay. Moving on to the next slide, I think it can It was the, newest call that we would like to do, just as an announcement, sometimes documents move in our IETF process, and, we're become adopted work of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "working group. And, that we want to know at that point, assign Shepherd early. Sometimes it's it's it's common to like the shepherd at the local group last call. That's pretty late because shepherd is intended to somehow accompanies a document's life cycle as an adopted item. It's also easier to remember happened when you have a a small eye on it all over time. So, whenever we will issue a called for adoption. We were, a compliment that was a, call for Shepherd. That's kind of an opportunity to come, like, a micro chair because, it had include some charities. If it's somehow blocked, you can you can, indicate that you can talk to our office. You'll have only small responsibilities. The biggest thing is the item in the end of what haps has happened as a working group item. So that is something to get more experience in the the VRHF process without becoming a full shared. It's really, really we recommend it if you're interested in gaining more experience. So that's asset. Heads up. And now to the status. So for those of you who are at our 1st session, not much has changed except on the updates to the TLS Transport model for SNMP that was just in the queue in the prior meeting. And export of segment routing over ipv6. I mentioned it was just about there. Well, it is now there as of this morning. So thank you again to the working group. This means we've got some slots free for new work, but as you can see, we are a a working group. So we have a lot happening, and we do appreciate all of the comments, all of the suggestions, all of the questions and discussion on the list."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "And with that, our minister is out of the way, and we can welcome first presenter. That is in the room. Wonderful. Alright. Hello, everyone. My name is Nagina. It translates snow white in English. If that is easier to remember me. I'm, here to present, 2 drafts in the front of the multiple contributor. One is called sustainability insights. Sustainability insight has been mentioned in the number of the site meetings, we have had now here as well previously in London and in Japan, as well. Pawith, we released we published couple of days back, we already received, couple of feedbacks. Thank you. We had no time to address it, but, we will in the next version appreciate it. So for the ones not familiar, with the our motivation to work on this is that, we are depleting the resources from our earth. And many companies have made a commitment to go carbon neutral by 2050. We see a lot of companies making, defining the milestones how to reach there, and they are mostly measuring the progress against greenhouse gas protocol measuring scope 13 and, emotions. Now in our work, we decided to focus first first on the power. That is because there are some data that suggests that around 80% a bit more or less. Emissions actually come from the products in use. So it's a very good portion. We plan our work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "later on to extend to what happens during the production phase, but happens in the recycle phase. So to be able to cover the whole sustainability picture, but for now, that is mainly focused on power. Now when it comes to power, there is a lot of challenges. And even though it sounds like a simple task in reality when we start doing it it is not, it ranged from data not being available all in the networking equipment, data being available in the data sheet, data being not accurate, data varies from devices to devices, different measure being used, different sensors being used to different accuracy of the sensors being available. And then, the implementation is obviously not consistent in terms of data modeling transport or encoding, but I'm guessing for this working group that is nothing new because not a sustainability, but rather wiser telemetry. If I can get the next slide, please. Thank you. So in order to introduce the power, we decided to start with, giving you example. So if we have a very simple task in front of us and that is to calculate CO2 equivalent emissions for the installed base. We need the 3 main set of data. First one is a location. So where the devices are being located, The second one is a current inventory. And there, we don't mean, only inventory in terms of amount of boxes and so on, but also but flying carts are available in their amount of ports and so on because each of the line card actually draws some energy and then associated power consumption. Now, our consumption when I say it, I'm thinking, our are we speaking about the real power consumption? So the the consumption that we actually drove from the ball, apparent power, estimated power. And if consumer a or operator a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "calculates the real power, for example, versus the operator B calculates estimated power from a data sheet are they actually comparable values? The second, complication or issue is that, we see that there is different sensors available. Sometimes we get what Sometimes we get current, sometimes we get warrant, voltage, we can to calculate a bit and so on. Then in terms of, carbon emissions. So there is molecules widely adopted how actually to calculate the carbon CO2 equivalent. And that formula includes the carbon emission for the particular location. That is why we need the patient, and the power being grown. Estimated or real, those there are calculators available that actually can give us, for example, carbon emission prague in the last hour, and that can be used. They use there is number of tools in our proof of concept we use the tool that is called the electricity map. For that, but then that might be not the real value because maybe e, we are actually having the solar panels, and we are not consuming any power from the grid. So is that the right measure actually, to use? Then I just want to mention that we have obviously a lot of legacy products in installed base are not meant to, optimize the power, but they are built with something else in mind. So they do not offer us any stability actually in scaling down the power and, not all the Caesar being used. And so. So you see me here speaking about multiple data that we actually need. And some of them fall into the inventory integrity. Some of them fall into the, but we call static data and that is the rated power. For example, that we get under very strict testing conditions that are being defined by other standard bodies. And then we are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "speaking about the live telemetry, that people potentially could get from a device. And then, we we speak, if we want to actually quantify the value for the amount of energy being spent via have to account for, for example, throughput or CPU usage, but are we actually getting for that value? Do I take the question? It's up to you. Yeah. I can take the question. Hello, Daniel. Speaking as the IV culture, So, I added the feeling, that part of this work, was related to inventory, and you just confirm Yes. So just to let you know that there is already some war her in IV on, related to this. So maybe if you consider creating the work of what goes into the inventory maybe needs to be worked why we what is not inventory better fits a year. Just just to let you know, We have, one of the call outs is on the other draft, and it is in the next slide. Thank you. So Warren Kamari, think I said something similar to the impact thing, but I think that it would be better if we focus right, for the moment, at least, just on the power part. And try and skip all of, like, CO2 equivalent, etcetera. That's a nice thing to do in the future. We can just at least start measuring and collecting and reporting that now. That would be a good, like, first step, and we could make progress. Yes. And that is exactly why we have addressed in the power draft. So we focused mainly on the power because that is we can do right now. Marisol Palmetasysco. I I want to live time to finish the session, but there is no only discussions in the IV related sustainability. There is a program impact, and it might be having more site meetings around the topic. In the future might be something more focused around sustainability, but just wanted to say Yeah. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "Alright. So if you go to the next slide, so here, it's a representation of the power of data Padolipika presented in a public draft. You see Ivy, right, on top So we are accounting for that. And here, we wanted to give example in the previous use case that I have mentioned actually that the data that we need to perform any calculations if we will or to gain any insights, we actually have to play them around, part of them is inventory, part of them is the static data, part of it is, and, life telemetry. We have proposed the young data model that is part of the draft as well. And if we can go on the next slide but we, once when data. So once when we agree about the data to be used, metrics to be used, young modeling and so on. We think it is also important that we actually have a sustainability framework that help us all together be consistent because if we are processing the data differently, then, we believe that is not going to be most optimal. So that is why we actually gave a proposed how the sustainability insights framework should look like. This one is a part of the other draft. So sustainability insights draft, the focus is more on the framework and a big picture use cases and so on. And then here, I actually want to mention, again, the work that has been present I believe in the NetComm group as well. So while we were preparing, for the actually came to the conclusion that this is not only sustainability problem that there is a major problem. Around processing the, young telemetry 3 processing, something that is maybe not young structured and so on. So there is a draft that has proposed and presented in the NetComm around,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "framework, that consists of the provider collector aggregator and processor how actually to to to process the data by their data, other data, and then, sustainability. So that brings me to the end. We have a proof of concept that we are working on using the public model that is documented. We plan to continue working on it because we have gotten some feedback from our initial partners that it is valuable work and helps process data more consistently. But we wanted to bring this here to see if this is something that, audience think it is work that should be continued. We are aware of the other work. I believe Klem, has presented already in this forum, but also in the other working group on the topic of green metrics, we think the our work very well complements that work we are aware of the other drafts, that are looking more into sustainability paid flow and, similar. So we think that the public could be actually used. There's a very good base to support all the other all the others use cases. And proposed drafts. Then we would like to get the feedback are the derived metrics. We are proposing the right ones. There has been a lot of controversy and a discussion on the mailing list previously. So we are actually looking to find any better metric if there is any. And then, I would like to invite everyone to point out any other previous work, or similar work where the we could call collaborate, and we would like to invite everyone to contribute Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "While you come up, Marisol, I have a question really for ADs It sounds like there might be other work. Other projects happening here, is this the right working group for this in your opinion in in the AD's opinion? So so maybe I think the key I think the thing I'm mean, is there interest in doing this work? I think so what I would like is could you do a show of hands poll for effectively is there interest? I think it's like, is there interest in this topic? It doesn't have to be with this draft. I want to know, is there interest in this room in working on this topic because you should mention there's other drafts as well. I think that would be worth knowing then if we if no there's interest, we can find where to take the work. It could be here. It could be IV. Actually, if I can kinda modify what Rob said. He said sort of doing this sort of stuff, and I think that might have been a little bit handwavy. I think we should be talking about all we interested in working on and then a fairly specific, like, constraints that are stuff. Like, specifically just the energy impact, not the rest of the environmental impact blah blah blah blah. Because I think this very quickly spins into, like, Mhmm you know, what's the impact of somebody has to cut down a tree so that they can then, like, plant corn that they can raise beefs that they can make the, like, wheels that makes the CEO's car, who has the, like, mind income comrade who makes the medal that then makes the junior per router that I use, right, that gets unwieldy. One thing that I I would like to add Marisol Palmyra from Cisco. I have been attending this side meeting, before. Closer to them. Oh, sorry. I have been attending this site meeting before on open and young. And this was one of the first questions we were coming on. Right? Where to go? Should we go to IPF with this data model, should we go to open config and many of the challenges that has been presenting apply to this, use case. A use case that needs to be solved in no time. Right? We don't have 5 years."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "To define those metrics. And if we can influence on how on some of the regulations that are there has been also raising the impact, discussion, there are a lot of regulations where IETF doesn't have direct feedback, loop to, contribute into that. I think it's a real problem. It's a real use case and it's something practical that we can use that could also link. That discussion. It was, around open conflict and young. And we could take the opportunity to to address it that way Thank you. Well, you see the results of the poll. It's not overwhelmingly of of all the participants, 50 70 six participants, but 20 said, of this topic, there is interest. So I I I do personally. I think it's interesting, and you can kind of see what they've got there. Whether or not this is the right place, could be. But that's why I wanted to know if there was thought of maybe This is, in my opinion, a good place, but there might be so much desire to spin off another working group for this. That's what I was kinda getting I think this might not be big enough to do a working group for. So I think I would rather starts here and if necessary, it can move somewhere else. And I know and this is again, it's my personal feeling. I'm quite keen that we try and move fairly quickly, if you want to do this work and and publish the stats, let's not spend a year talking about having them do is actually get the document adopted there's interest, if there's enough support, then sort of move forward and try and get some get this published because think we've been talking about this stuff for maybe 6 months a year and maybe more. So let's actually trust just had him that she'd get it Get it done, I guess. Wow. I'm not in the queue so I'm just gonna jump it. Yeah, following on from that, there has been some discussion on making energy operations working group or something, but, you know, that'll take ages because we'll"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "charter it and fight back the charter for 6 months and blah blah blah. I think, The reasonable idea would be started here with the understanding it might move to a new working group if that happens in the future, but, you know, there's no shame and moving a document. It'll just help it move. So Okay. I'm sorry. We we we went way over, Alex. We got a little bit of buffer, but not that much, and I wanna give fairness to the rest of the people Susanna, thank you very much. We have Sure. So it's gonna be shorty. Being welcome. Behind of the yep. On the on the pink x. Thank you. So hello, everyone. I'm going to present some work we introduced an exposure of communication and compute information, for infrastructure infrastructure aware service deployment and selection. X like Next one? Yes, please. So the background motivation and problem space is service life cycle and information related information exposure for services that are highly compute intensive. So one, two keys two key steps in these life cycles are service deployment where the action to take is place the service, you need information on both computers and network. And the entity who needs it, it it's the service provider. And we have already, work, previous work on that in the auto working group. The second key step ease, service placement"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "and, service selection, sorry, where you have to select the service, points, points and you also have to select the point the path that's going to the service. So that also needs compute and communication information. Who needs it? It's a network provider and the application player or proxy thereof. And there is already ongoing work on this one, at the Katz And Outer Working Group. And not to mention, of course, steps for service assurance, the next slide Please please So, this all requires to have closure of communication and networking, information but that requires to have a common understanding on what you are exposing as an information. So The regarding standardization, there is quite major work regarding network information, but that is still in progress in, regarding communication information. So As the first as a first step, we feel we need to define a common set of compute metric that you expose, that you provide to the decision entities. As to for to support the various use cases that are being served at the So there is already a work existing on this topic that we have categorized in 3 in three aspects, in the draft. One is raw compute information. So you just, go, dive into the machines and look at the CPU RAM and memory. And so And this is carried by bodies like, Etsy NFV,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "for example, the 2nd category is, one of them of, is, addressed in the ATF, with the MIB RFC, looking at what resources share, you get in a virtual machine. For your service. And the last one is more service metrics include including compute related information, this assessing somehow the the how your service is running in terms of delay, availability and other matrix. So next slide, please. So why we present this work here. Is that when we look at the related art, we realized that consumers of compute information can be divers and located at different levels. Of the infrastructure. So you can have applications, users, controllers, route till that needs this information. Therefore, the set and scope of these metrics is manifold, So you can look at CPU raw machine capabilities, but you can also look at the transformation into aggregated delay or availability see over time, short scale, long scale time, performance, etcetera. So the We also know that compute metrics are being defined in several body and this work is in progress. So, as I, already mentioned, we have IETF, Etsy, and bodies like, Linux foundations that are looking at APIs to expose them, and you also have cost the cloud providers. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "This calls for a common framework to specify these metrics. To support trustable compute capability assessment. And we think that the ops AWG could be a good venue to, federate efforts and, on this topic. So with the goal of leveraging already existing work and reaching out to whoever at the ATM, the working groups would be interested in working on this topic and, gathering of course use cases that we may miss in our current watch. So, to provide some more details on some this aspect. We will have a site need seeing, today at, 3:30 in the room, Carlene. Where we will, talk about exposure of computer networking metrics which includes, of course, defining a common set of metrics. So we would like to gather the feedback of this working group to see whether this makes sense. And who in the IETF would be interested. Thank you. That's Hi. I'm Adrian Farrell. I'm Co chair of Kat's working group. Katz has a specific charter item to work on metrics. So I would be enthralled by the idea of the ADs saying let's have two places working on metrics. I will say this at your side meeting later, but but compute metrics, have specific needs for specific applications and and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "you may find that grouping them all together in in a big grippy pile actually makes them unusable in any of the applications. So work out very carefully first what it is you need to know for the thing you're trying to do. And then move on to the metrics. And so I'm glad that Adrian came to the mic, so thank you for that because I was having that question is, is looking at the previous slide, maybe, which one you had a diagram of where this one, of where it goes, within the ATF, I think the plan is that Alto is gonna finish the documents it's currently working on, and then it's gonna likely close, is my understanding. So Alto will probably disappear from this picture in terms of what's happening there. And so then I was thinking is is the only consumer of this stuff with the item going to be cats, and in which case, then it seemed to be maybe working on this within cats would be a better choice, but I do take ages's point is that I think that the scope of what cats, the metrics they're looking at actually slightly smaller and tighter than what's been discussed here. let me give an example. Kat Let is trying to steer traffic in the here and now. Right? We have a service request. We need to process this is the amount of compute we need, where is that compute available? Other applications might say, where are we going to form new instances, containers, whatever, where are we gonna do truck rolls? Very different type of, metric needed there. Yeah. So, I would say that's exactly, our points. So It is not about defining 5 metrics that are good for everything. So in, maybe in one of the next slide, I just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "we illustrate that the user the application where you need these metrics depending on at which level when you do typically a service placement. Which is Another, another important life cycle step. So we when you do service placement, you definitely don't want to use the same metrics as catswood because then you you you really look deeply in the, in the infrastructure. Sorry to cut you off Sabine, but we we will run out of time at this point. So I noticed this draft was published on October 23rd, which was the cutoff date. And and I would encourage you to generate some of this discussion on on the list to see who in here might be interested, and it sounds like the side meeting and and what Adrian said about cats. There might be a different place for this, but, unfortunately, we're gonna have to we're gonna have to move on from an agenda important older. I think that's you and please. We've kind of eaten up our buffer if you can keep to the 10 minutes. I, yeah, I'll do I will from I promise I'll do it. Hi. I want I want to share some experiences we have its habits, habits, habits, habits, habits, habits, habits, habits, habits, habits, habits, habits, habits, habits, habits, habits, habits, modeling digital map based on RFC. They move by the next phase. Should alter the mind Okay. So, I will talk in front for the authors and contributors of this draft. Next place, So compared to the last version, we are now at version 1, and, we under the park to include 4 different networks. We have access to our to our to labs. We have Hubei Lab, and we have some simulated networks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "in order to support some corner cases that are not, supported in the labs. And in this if you remember, the last phase was kind of implementing from the bottom to the services layer but using, cast and extensions on top of rfca345. Now we included a layer 2 standardly. 2 topology RFCs, standardly. 3 topology RFC endoscars drafts. For, OSPF topology and ISIS apologies. There is a typo there with OSB advice. The term is our highest apology or fix that in the technology. And our focus was to see how to modelize size and OSPF apology the right way. And, defound the new limitations and the defined via the problems for these routing protocols and, we discuss some options, how we can address them. So these are the 3, changes in the job that there is a lot of editorial changes and improvements, but I'm focusing on this trend presentation. Next, please. So just to refresh on what we want to achieve, doing this exercises see if RCA 3, 4, 5 young model is good basis. To model a digital map where digital map for us is the topology at layered topology from the bottom layer from the physical virtual up to the services layer using the common partners, and and relationships. And to identify any limitations and come back to the the to the IETF with some changes and proposals. Next, please So, to refresh, these are the core use cases and requirements that we collected from the operators so far. So please, if you have any additional ones, come back to us So from the use case, perspective, we added some from the previous version based on the input from the operators."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:04",
    "text": "And from the requirements perspective, we are addressing some issues and limitations based on these requirements. The important thing is although we are trying to model from a bottom to this is from physical to the services. The important thing is the different users may use just some layers and have different requirements, you know, don't think that the users have to be aware of all the layers in the map. This is what has to be, for multiple use cases and for different users. Next, please. So the the folks of this, phase is kind of alignment with, RF CA 3 45, RFC 8 944, RFC. 8346 and, a draft for OSPF and ice ice ice. Routing, the rest is done via cached extensions, and I won't talk about it. So as I said, we already had 2 customer implemented. Next, please. Used for testing. These are the limitations that we identified and that we mentioned in the draft, the first two limitations have been there from the version 0. And the proposed solutions are in the Nagels an in job that we are working together, but it's Nigel stuff originally and and, he's focusing on these two limitations. We verified the next trailing between the main networks, network parts of other networks, and notes TPs and links in multiple networks during the evaluation of the ISS and OSDF topology draft by all to and we identified those limitations. And some of them additional ones And the rest is, requirements some additional supporting relationships. We need maybe relationship properties. Termination point roles, players, sublayers have to be further discussed because there are some kind of issues with Circular dependent potentially, etcetera. And then we have to see comparison between the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "network topology and network t topology. RFCs and which ones maybe we need to use some things from the tea topology draft. Next, please. So I won't go through the details, but just maybe to say that for the 3 limitations I presented on the previous slide that have red border we wanted to understand why is it problem to explain why is problem for SIS and buys a problem for SBS. So you know, when we have when we don't have links between different networks, we cannot really model properly as I topology. If you see on the top right corner, eyesized apology has links the ta shared between the networks. And and we have now didn't we don't have that capability, the RSCA 345 because the links are contained in the network and the the points, the nation points of those links suggest node and TPDs. So you cannot point to the termination point of the different network. So that's limiting. Also, we have ASs, we have eyesized domains, we have areas So we have have had our code network structure and the only relationship 9. CA345 is supporting relationship. Which you could use, but it's a monthly incorrect, really, to use for part of. And the third one is, that no tenant faces and links as well at the beginning belong to different networks. So So either we denormalize some of those things or is there some other solution? And for SPF, the second, and the third issue is valid, not first time because links in the OSPF are not Next, please. So these are some options and we did both of the options in our parks, but maybe I talk about these options. So we'll share the slides and if there is any feedback or any other options that you guys can suggest, it would be appreciated. Next, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "So this is example where we modeled, isomerias, Vitarif CA3 for 5 limitations. And you can see that the only network we have is the eyesized domain overall. Domain. And then you have the notes part of that. So we really can't represent the topology in the right way trans tier relationship. Application would have to go to specific isis attributes and understand the area addresses from there in order to build a topology. So there is no generic solution for this. Yeah. And it doesn't represent the eyesized apology. Next, please. So if I go to the second option that we implemented using areas as networks, you can see that it matches very nice. That processes are grouped in the area. We are a standard, network, no relationship, and and you know, this this is the situation where it can scale because for small networks. Maybe you don't need even the areas as networks that here you definitely do for the bigger networks. You definitely do for scale, and it is aligned. It the, I say it's the apology, and it's also aligned with all the manuals and training materials for the IGP's, you know, how the things works. So it it would match Perfectly. Next. So this is example from the customer log with the with the rec responses, response responses for both cases. Where we put, implemented, Oscar's, northbound. I and using southbound, both IETF and open config. Next So we had the side meeting important thing from this side and multiple customers identified the same, limitations and similar limitations, subset of them, different as an RCA 345 and, also the interest was very high. Like, you know, when when I asked, how many"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "operators are interested in digital map and and addressing these issues a vast majority of them reply that they're interested. Next, So can I just go to one slide afterwards, two slides after it? Sorry. Help next them. So this is the slide that I just did very quickly. And it's a draft slide, but I wanted to share it here because I just want position different things that we were talking about in terms of different drafts So the blue ones, you see, then the pop ups and the Ivy 1, I I positioned it as a physical and virtual topology. And and you can see that, these are this subset, of course, we have 60 augmentations, in the IETF, and we will continue to evaluate them. But I would like feedback, and from my team as well because I did discuss with them and this is my understanding. Can we go back? What's next? So, we will feedback some of the comments back to Oscar to update the young there. We we think, that's SIV6 should really be done the right way from the beginning. So we would probably want to continue working on those drafts for topology. We will continue our evaluation and pox and, do one by one of those 60 augmentations and do some some class occasions in regards how it's been augmented more operators and more labs. And, you know, we want to start with drafts, on top of Nagel's fund, with solutions for those limitations, what to propose and engage the community in discussions, how to enhanced us. Thanks. Just be quick. So my question is is what was being asked here is so one question I want to clarify. Are you asking to open 8345 to do a best fix it, or you are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "scheme to put augmentations onto 8345 to fix it or ask him something else. 8345 was done in, ITRS, I think, which now plays working groups, just looking for new this work will leave it down to her house. So it was I would say this would be ideal, but, you know, if if if there is a need for different drafts, fragmentation, but I if I would be voting, I would go for peace, but It depends on the what what's the preference of different stakeholders. Let's put the question another way. Is it extensions to the base model you need do, or is it changes to it as in is it like nonbacks, capacity changes, fixes need to put in. If you go to the the draft, Davis, say, a WG, he proposed 2 options, like, you know, through augmentation or changing the draft. So you can you can do both, but we could achieve it through augmentation. You know, we can augment the draft, but the preference would probably be to do the best Okay. That might be good. But backset compatible based, of course, like, you know, you wouldn't you would try to do and the proposal that is there for the 2 limitations is it that it is backward compatible? Info. It might be a good question to take the list since there's interest there and direction. Yeah. Tomo? Yes. Oh, Mike. Really quick, please? Question is that comment is that some of these issues have been already addressed Bayeras C8795 guarantees working group. And the solution is quite generic. So I suggest to take a look, at what already exists there and see whether there is a gap because I don't think we need to have a a solution for a yes, a solution for a SPF solution for the transferred and engineering networks, whereas we have already a solution that lies broadly. Yeah. The the important thing for us in in this, activities that you know, in Ivy, we have inventory use case. You guys have traffic engineering use case. We have many use cases. So what we want to try is to kind of come up with the approach that would be suitable for all of these different use case. I agree. And that's why"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "if you look at the topology, that is quite generic, so you can We can use the same, and we can use a subset together. We could add your staff as well. Yeah. Yeah. Let's keep this going on on the list. Thank you. You all, Thank you. Who's next? Modeling digital map. We did that. Alternate lurking. Giuseppe, I think. Okay. Hello. Good morning. This is the the the first time that I present this draft of, 0 0 version and about the epifix alternate marking information. Next slide. I'm presenting on behalf of the co authors. That, you can see on the slides. Excellent. Yeah. Just few words for those who are not familiar with methodology. So ultimate marking is, standard tracker Fc already standardizing a PPM. So you can see the reference document, that are RFC 9341and9342. Just few words about methodology. So it basically can use 2 bits, to calculate loss and delay. So if with one bids, we can batch packets based on time interval to measure loss. With the second bids, we can create a new set of market packets to measure delay. Please have a look at the RFC if you're not familiar with methodologies. Next slide. Yeah. There is also an RFC 9343 that they find the ipv6 option. For the application of the alternate marking IPV 6 that are playing and, of course, also to service. The FPC option contain the flow monitor identification, the loss, and delay flags. As I mentioned in the previous slides. What we want to do with this, new draft is to define the API fix extension for report"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "for data report. So that of the composition, we, analyze that we can basically reuse the packet header, section and the IP payload, the packet section already defined in that be fixed. So In general, the the draft basically analyze what already exists in APVIX and can be used and what can be defined as a new information elements for that agree aggregation, new FPPIX entities, for flowmon ID, flow monitoring and identification loss and delayed flag are needed. And also the period identification. While for data correlation, of course, existing epitheics entities can be used such as hostname, ingress interface, and saw. Next slide. Again, for management, the packet count can be done by the using the Okta Delta count, the existing information element, and our pocket Delta account, to calculate delay, we can use the flow start on milliseconds or milliseconds or according to time precision and timestamp granularity requirements or floorhand millisecondmillisecondsandnanoseconds so in the end, after all the gap analysis, the document requests Yeah. IANA to create a new subregistry. Call the epics alternate marking and include the flow monitoring and and duplication loss and delay flag and period data. Next slide. Okay. Yeah. I'm I will invite to read the document and to share your comments not. Since we are the IP fix expert in this working loop. So Thank you for being quick. We do have time any comments, in the room or online. Top. Please go."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:04",
    "text": "I just want to add that there is also related document on young extension and deployment document in my PPM. So there are also related documents, It might be worth uh-uh bringing that up and and trying to kick something off on the ops AWS list to get people I've seen a few me to to read and comment more on that. I think you have posted on this. and and, hopefully, once the IETF 118 wears off and people get around, we we see some discussion. Okay. Thank you, Jeffrey. Thank you. Luis, hello everybody. This is Rusk from Telefonica. We'll present this that has been prepared, whether with, Bit or Lopez from Nokia. So next place. So the the the other jetty that we have problems in this work is essentially to work in automation of the OEM test. The OEM testing is essential for getting a knowledge of the health of of the network, how how the network is, their performance is is in a compass according to the SLOS and SLAs. So the idea here would be to work in in modeling how to schedule different tests so that can help in that purpose. So we essentially focus on on this automation of the test. Re trying to reuse the work that has been done in the past in in IETF. By defining a specific test methodology, some text, the technology, so I am technology. So next, please. So we introduced some terminology for the purpose of of automating this sequence of test. So we define first the what could be a no I am unitary test with that, essentially, we provide identification of the type of test that we want to to run. The configuration parameters for the for that particular test. And the target results. So somehow we we can check the test with the expected result"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:04",
    "text": "And then also we define the OIM test sequence with the would be this this list of, or a unitary test that we want to run. Together with the, the time constraint for running the the sequence, the number of repetitions, order and sponsored file. Next, please. So the the use cases that we we let's say, elucidate for for the justifying the the work of this auto dimension is first the troubleshooting. So so how reactive sequence of test, when we identify some events on alarm or on alerting the network. Something is going wrong. So the the idea will be to run a test, sequence of test in order to assess what is happening in the network. The second case could be the bare certificate so that we can run this sequence test just to be sure that the service will, behave as expected so we can ensure that there will not be any problem once we deploy the service into the network. Third one will be the proactive supervision. So running periodic tests just to ensure that everything is going fine and that the SLAs are being met. And finally, the performance based file routing. So in this case, the idea will be to, mean, to provide informed decision to the path competition elements. So in such a way that the PC can calculate the the path according to the, I mean, ensuring that the the behavior of the past will be conforming with the expected, performance behavior. Next, please. So we we are defining very preliminary, your models probably, you know, for sure, to be refunding in in further versions of the document. So we first post the, your mother for the unit that he test. I said, adding the the name of the test, the the type of the test, the periodicity of the test, and also the record rental of the of the test. And and the test status. So if the test has been, run successfully or not. Next, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "And then the the sequence, again, we define the the the name of the sequence, the the list of, unitary test that are part of this, specific sequence. The period of the city of the sequence, the recurrency, I mean, how recurrent we run the the sequence and and the status. So it's, successfully run or or not. Next, please. So, essentially, this is, I mean, we are in the iminarily steps of of this course. So we would like to call a feedback from the working group if there is interest from this activity, and, yeah, our idea is to keep working on that and prepare new versions for for next IT meetings. That's good. Thank you. Blush. Hello. One point that We see a lot of scheduler type. Items, shouldn't we have a general scheduler model somehow in yank. Instead of everyone defining their own Well, there there is an activity on the schedule definition. I think that that we have a side meeting in in this working on this as as scheduling stuff. So I think we cannot anticipate now of the what will be the the the approach follow-up to be followed, but already able to be to really there is a kind of common scheduling, way of, yeah, we will be open to reduce that for sure. I would like to see that in the Net Mod group if possible. Okay. Just a quick comment. I think this is quite interesting what you're doing here, so it's an interesting idea. My only question is why they define as like configuration notes as opposed in, like, an RPCO action. You're telling to run the test. Is that is this the configuration, then you have a separate RPC or action to actually execute the test. Sorry. I couldn't get you. So it looked me from the yang tree diagram. That it's modeled as, as configuration. Whereas I would have thought this is a test. You're running a test. This is more like an, an ephemeral action that you take"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "in which case, defined as a action or a or a younger, obviously. Well, it's it's, I'm not sure I got properly the question, but there is no necessarily a female. So what towards. I I can answer, Rob. There are two parts. So there is if if if example, in one reflector, you need to configure the reflector. This is the part that we we need to keep working, but you are right. How to reuse the models, how to let's say trigger reactions is something we will need the feedback from the group and and improve it, but we are starting with configuration for that won't reflect to as an example. Thanks, sweet. Luis, thank you very much. Again, discuss on the list, please. Thank you. Oscar. Take us home. Thank you. Click here. Just the next slide. So here, just the rationale why what what are we trying to achieve? So what we're trying to achieve is to have a representation of the operators network and been able to to send it so it can be a consume by planning tools, and you can do if analysis, So here, what was the goal? Talk use existing IDF Technologies to build that. So we are using all the topology models. So before you someone jumps now, you can use the topology. And, yes, of course, this using the all the IP, the topology, the loggers 3 d topology, etcetera to represent that. But, okay, when we did that, we needed just some extra things, okay, that, we wouldn't require to be able to express that, hey, This is a, I guess, I just don't mean this is an HP domain. So next slide, this is why we have two documents. Okay. One of this is the is this ICS. So we did some some of this there. Some some editorial changes and also in junk based what we did was an alignment also with the device models. Okay. So everything that is I just said, specifically, we took it from the ISIS junk model, and we'll put it here. Okay. But for the first version that we did on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "the track is on the principle. Is and this is, I think, the the value of that are how to represent a network like this. This is one of and represent a network like the ones that will have you wanna of our operations. So here are dividing them in clusters or or processes. So here, one instance of the ATF network for each of them. And for each of them, the information that is gonna be there is, for example, if you have let's say some bandwidth or some packet related or packet may information shown, you take it from the ITFT topology models. Okay. So we don't really find them here. You can already take it. Take it from there. So we'll just add this extra thing. So let's just slide. So what are the the one, the extra things that we it's same in the ISIS draft and in the OSB address. So just in the network type UGS. Have one parameter that says, Kate, this is a representation of, topology that runs ISIS. Okay. So it is not saying that the source of information is ISIS. Okay. So it just that you hate. This is and a ISIS cluster or in the on in the SDFA. This is We have a a part of the model that also contains some information about the the timer because it's useful to make simulations, and then there is some information that depends in the yes, I just model or in the OSPF model, there were very a few particular attributes from either ISIS or or yet in this case, okay, that were also required to make the to make the simulations and, as mentioned, they compliment, okay, what is already existing. In the layer 3 d topology and in the d topology documents. Okay. So here, go to the next slide, So here what what we want to do is keep improving the models include which are the examples that, based on the implementation where you can see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "how all the models fit together and see an example of putting everything together. Day. Also, as we are relying on existing documents. Okay. We are also taking having the limitations from there. Okay. So That means the way to build that apology that the one that you saw at the beginning with the different processes means that you need to have multiple. I just put a multiple if net worth and repeat the note multiple networks. So here if there is some engagement that can be done. We are happy to to do them and please review the documents. Here as we are using anything from lot of topology documents. Maybe some things can be optimized. Okay. So here, we are open to feel that. And was working obviously. If you are interested, you you taking this pack of work And Also, we want those up to to check with the different routing area working groups, some something about this Are are you presenting it in routing area? No. Not not not this time. Maybe maybe next one, or we can just after this. Yeah. We can ask. Well, it is got a few seconds here, but we're over our budgeted time, comments, Well, in that case, thank you very much, Oscar. Everyone have a safe home, as Warren says, please get your nomcom feedback in. And we will send out the minutes. We have a few AIs here. So we'll start some discussion. Please read some of this work I know it's tough. You're traveling back home when you get there. Find some time, comment on list. And thank you very much for everyone's dissipation in ops area working group. I knew I I I knew I knew her luck was running off at some point. I think one way is to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "or or or it will go for the next slide. Yeah. Like, just take this night's away. It's like, oh, this is not my name anymore. Yeah. You gotta you gotta get it was litigated. I mean, it's horrible. It was, like, adjusting. I've got a good point there."
  }
]
