[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:07",
    "text": "[Music] hello welcome to six slow working group meeting if this is not where you want to be is the contrary we won\u0027t take it personally so we have before we start we can the NIC is going to take minutes worse but we do need jabber scribes and Buddy willing to serve as Java scribe or jabber overlayer ever anybody willing to bring questions in from jabber anybody know what javelins okay I\u0027ll go for Jack so hello everyone I\u0027m so meter and Gabriel is with me this is the 6lo session as we mentioned before online agenda and jabbered room vertical and it\u0027s a pad are all noted on the first slide we also we already "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:10",
    "text": "announced in the mailing list that our secretary James Sudhir has moved on to other responsibilities I just wanted to announce it we wanted to announce it again and we wanted to thank him for his service so going forward we have a very tight schedule today in the agenda and if you look at the agenda and see if you have any comments so we will try to switch but we will start with the 6lowpan and the SG review presentation and then we\u0027ll follow up with other two updates on the nd related then we\u0027ll go for NFC ipv6 over NFC then we will go for the routing header lifetime and use cases and we will end with the fragmentation design team report so any comments the agenda Pascal are you happy with your time allocation okay yeah I think that because everything is on this one take you Center so your last presentation in her information-sharing to the six low working group that will be moved up yeah and just spend five minutes okay so we and also attend we have Benjamin from Etsy from plaque tests I think they are doing some practice they were here for IETF hackathon and they want to talk about their test cases and future plans we have written just me Eddie Jenna has a lot for me presenting the minimal fragment I did a presentation yesterday in a week don\u0027t think we have to repeat that so maybe you can give the entire lucky Thomas Oh where\u0027s Thomas Thomas so there\u0027s a section devoted to the design team the fragmentation design team yes so Thomas gonna start off and then you\u0027re gonna have the short you know one section for your drab a Scullion hapless issue for them but consolidated set of slides for that that yes all I wanted to propose is that we don\u0027t have to do the victory assembly profess again because we do such All Hands because of this 1946 those with you know most of the everybody here has "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:10",
    "text": "seen it and we can skip that part but you can do that during your section and just gauge if there\u0027s interested okay I\u0027ll leave it up to you maybe you can just even not everybody was in L week so if you can give her five minutes overfilled that\u0027ll be consolidated slides and okay so the draft status for working group since last I\u0027ll give we have RFC 6775 update to that is is GED field and the comments were address backbone router is preparing for a working group last call and six low AP and D work is in progress and really mesh Carla so send the updated status about the implementation and the progress of the draft to the mailing list so with that document also is in progress draft ality of six low use cases will be presented today it\u0027s in progress six low deadline time they are also in progress and probably ready for for the last all I\u0027m not sure but they are we promise there will be presentation on that and draft who six low PLC it\u0027s still an individual draft he has updated version number three from the comment from IETF one hundred last time and also I Triple E PLC standard he also says that he has discussed it with itu-t SD 15 to 15 and he will have a newer version in the next IDF timeframe and six low fragmentation design team update will be provided by the design team late Thomas were Tony we have several members of the team the names are on the screen they actually made a good progress came to conclusion a nice in isolating the implementation issues and some simple fix that custom has proposed for the implementation side to avoid fragmentation packet loss and delays and overall protocol solution for higher reliability when you are using fragmentation over the network end to end that is proposed in a solution that that Pascal is going to discuss so that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:13",
    "text": "brings to the last page and we are going to discuss some of the some of the items that are probably miscellaneous but things are also important one of the things is that Carsten mentioned to the chairs offline and we also discussed in today\u0027s IOT directorates meeting that lot of the thing time we do develop protocols over here and we don\u0027t see much deployment out there and also we don\u0027t have a good 6lo information page we key to provide details on the implementation or what exactly we are doing how it can be applicable so Carsten used to maintain a good 6lowpan page but that has now expired or taken away we are looking for volunteers to help us out on updating some of the materials so Kirsten do you want to say anything yeah cuz more this actually came up in it in a class when students who had already sown seeing pages like seaboard oh and quite a technology asked me is there something like this for six No and there is nothing like this for six no there used to be the old 6lowpan dotnet but maybe something that that\u0027s really just a landing page with lots of useful links to implementations words and to reference documents would be useful so if you\u0027re not if you don\u0027t know seaboard Oh or the Corp the technology just just go there and have a look it\u0027s pretty low effort to run such a site we put this on github so actually we help people have updates they usually just send apoyo requester hints you can just merge that and then you are done so I think it\u0027s relatively easy for us to do that but of course will require a little bit of work to collect the initial content of that site please contact the chairs and Kirsten Thank You Kirsten and for the sake of the time I\u0027ll just go quickly for the second and third bullet point there was recent t2 RT side meeting where there was a research presentation which showed that there are some issues performance issues due to the protocol "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:13",
    "text": "interruption in the wireless networks and their lyrics they expect that there might be some impact in 6lowpan stack protocol performance although nothing has been identified that we know of Laura Mary Feeney I don\u0027t know whether she\u0027s here okay so she is the contact for that research and if you if you are more interested and if you like to provide some more information to the mailing list Laura please do and so you we will follow up from there so the last point is six low o\u0027clock taste test cases and they they included in the slide contact primary contact is Alan reball and they currently support eight or 2.15 dot for NFC and ET alien plan and they were are interested in doing any participate in IETF hackathon and practiced so with that we will start with the next presentation naka asking so I have about with alpha level to discuss four drafts which are really saying a single story and the story starts with the update of the 6lowpan neighbor discovery protocol the goal of the whole story put together is to enable a large building or large factory to have small devices which just support 6lowpan 6lowpan and e and that\u0027s it and those devices would be able to move seamlessly inside the whole factory join different route over the other go whatever shape that takes and maintain their routings without having to remember the IP address etc so that\u0027s that\u0027s what we are trying to achieve across all those [Music] yes so so basically there are a number of elements that need to be put in place in order to enable the whole story that I\u0027m talking about it looks simple but actually it takes a lot of effort to get there because you have to have a number of those right over networks to appear as a single network for the moving device the device has to be able to move without remembering without reforming a security Association etc and it has to be it has to have a very simple host side implementation so just the radios radio security whatever 6lowpan aunt "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:13",
    "text": "doesn\u0027t need to know anything about the writing that takes place in the network and that\u0027s pretty much what we end up doing with this series of documents this thing here is that what the powerpoints land and this is the PDF that\u0027s the difference it was it was before but not now you want to switch to you so you know what I don\u0027t I stop my story because I just have an hour so I\u0027m gonna skip the backbone watery because nothing much change there I\u0027m going to talk mostly about the iesg review of the RFC 6775 update and I have a few questions and she validation I need to be made by the working group because number of thing have changed and that also applies to the address protection draft there are number of things which have changed and I want to make sure that the working group is happy with what\u0027s going on and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:54",
    "text": "this may not work then may not work so there is quite a bit of text at the beginning that I encourage you to read but we won\u0027t have time to go through all this today it gives you some background about why we\u0027ve been doing this and what we are doing so this it\u0027s not a that\u0027s okay I\u0027m skipping the previous slide you won\u0027t be surprised so there is a group of three documents at 6lowpan which are the update itself which tells you about the changes we are making to six leopard ND then the address project project protection thing which is basically Savi protection for six weapon so how do you protect address against somebody wanted to steal your dress Wendy and how do you prevent somebody sending packets or signals and dress which is which belongs to you and the last draft is the backbone router which is as I mentioned earlier as you want to be of this build a big network with multiple what about you dogs or whatever that is and of an Ethernet or some type of I spin network interconnect with these routers - they\u0027ll be ours how do you what operation do you do if you have classical nd on the backbone so it\u0027s really interaction of a classical nd on the backbone and the 6lowpan ND / whatever protocol that you may have on the 6lowpan network there is a fourth document that I will present at the end which is how that works with ripple so at the end of the day when you take those four documents together you effectively can be out this network which spans this the big factory with thousands and thousands of devices and they all reach the nearest gateway the nearest lbr the formaggio dock there and they are all interconnected into a single subnet so they can move smoothly similar seamlessly inside that network without reforming addresses or reforming keys etc but they so let\u0027s see now let\u0027s go through the changes that we made since the iesg review started so the first thing was naturally consequence of the LSU review itself but was the consequence of the work which is happening with the address protection thing something with this case very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:56",
    "text": "early in the six up and energy that was not there for a while and now it\u0027s there it\u0027s the capability to have lags which is not to and that is not backward compatible with the previous six top anandhi so if you are in a world where you have to to co-exist with backward compatibility to all their devices then this cannot be used right there are there is tax which says that\u0027s only when you know and we\u0027ll see that now we can really know whether we are in the backward compatible or not world if if you are in a world where you are you have only upgraded devices there and you can use a lance which is longer than two and the reason why we need a life that is longer than two is that this field which is now called a registration under severe fire and that\u0027s another consequence of the is you review will be longer than 64 bits because we put a cryptographic token and the way that we thought we could inherit from CGI to be under 64 bits token is actually very expensive on the client side and we thought that some clients could not afford to do that and if they can\u0027t spend all the cycles doing the cryptographic things that you find in CGI then the only alternate was to make this thing feel bigger and so that\u0027s why we actually provision far ranks which is like a larger than two so if there is any problem with this and anything any problem with this and the rest I\u0027m going to present please raise your hand but this is a big change next slide please so the second thing which which aperture is also a consequence of this which happened during the initial review bit was not an issue review come out it\u0027s the the problem of telling the router over world whether this is also a router or which will under its wrought ability later I\u0027ll participate in to repeal for instance or if this device is a plane live meaning that it doesn\u0027t know anything about the right over doesn\u0027t know anything about anything else you just want the infrastructure the routers to do their job and make sure that these packets will come back to him and the original idea was that the this ripple devices would set a bit and that the leaf would not suit this spec would have been transparent but the discussion tended to say eh there are many report devices out there which don\u0027t set the bit so the backward compatibility will be very hard but the plane 6lowpan in the right of our world don\u0027t exist so this is a flag day for them let them all set the air bit to odd okay so the a bit now is host setting which says oh I\u0027m a host I\u0027m not persuading two twenty rotting I don\u0027t know what\u0027s writing there is I don\u0027t want to know I\u0027m setting the bit if there is a router please do everything I need to be done because I won\u0027t do it myself you see so basic basically a six up a node which does not participate the right over us "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:56",
    "text": "to set a bit so this has been there for a long long time this is the tid so the T ID is a sequence counter and this is how we can do this seamless roaming as you know when the device moves from a place to another place the infrastructure has to figure out out of the two information which is the most recent and there are two ways to cluster ways for doing that you have a timestamp of your sequence counter and the timestamp when you have a very constrained space to put your timestamp is a bad idea we don\u0027t know the resolution will need etc or some things and move very fast and things can move very slow so what\u0027s your unit what\u0027s the space so the sequence counter is much easier to deal with but it has to be provided by the moving device so that\u0027s why it\u0027s one of those two information that 6lowpan is now provided while providing to to the routing protocol with easy repo so this is this tid so that was one of the biggest thing wanted to do with this update next slide please so the registration lifetime is also in well no it\u0027s not much change issue no no actually this change this shit one dose was not child right don\u0027t think so next please so this is this is the the most important change that\u0027s the change is that we don\u0027t necessarily use a new i-64 as the identifier of the device anymore actually if you think about what you want to express you don\u0027t want to say who is the owner with a unique ID or something you want something to an able to correlate the second registration for the first for the same address so as to see if the second registration for the same address is coming from the same guy that doesn\u0027t mean that the token that you are using to verify that as to be a unique ID if it\u0027s a unique ID one of the ing commands that I heard is that you have privacy issues around that that\u0027s good now you\u0027re leaking the UI 64 the device there are privacy concerns with that so one of the ideas you reviews I got is even asking whether we should take the path of duplicating the use of UI 64 for this purpose okay anyway the new term insist on what this exactly years it is not an idle failure of this source don\u0027t there is new text which says don\u0027t do we do it for that don\u0027t do it for correlating to registration which have the same identifier because this is a different thing the scope of this field is registering one address okay that\u0027s that the scope of it that\u0027s its value it the same device can use different further field for different registration don\u0027t think that by looking at all the Deva the registration with the same raga field you\u0027ll get you\u0027ll get everything from the same yard it is not the meaning at all so that\u0027s why the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:56",
    "text": "name has changed it is used to verify that the second registration for the same address is is about the same guy registering the same address not two different guys that\u0027s what it\u0027s for so we had a lot of new text to clarify that and the name has changed actually two times during the review next slide please so I have some oh it\u0027s going to be very quick I have some limited flows there we can go quickly through them what\u0027s important Shira that\u0027s the bootstrap of a network is that now we have mastered a six cio option which is an option that customers actually standardized sometime ago we must the presence of a six cio india rice actually that must is inherited from from Justin\u0027s rosebud and that\u0027s how we know that the sender of the array supports this update we have new flies in there it\u0027s an option with flags so we have no flags which tells the support for this draft and that\u0027s how we know for sure that we can use it on that with this router and there is also a flag which tells with other six lb or supports a draft because this has consequences to not only the eruption but also to the data exchange with the system do so initially in the draft like before the ideas you review there were two ways of getting there and one of the review commands was a it\u0027s too complicated we need one way I think that was that real so now we have one way and we discussed with caste and blah and we ended up saying the six CIO is the right way here I\u0027m giving more details on what goes into registration so they are option is called now an extender oh just to discuss it easier the source of the registration is always an ink lockup and the address that you\u0027re registering now is in target of DNS you know there is Target Field in the ICMP header that\u0027s that\u0027s where the registered address goes and that\u0027s good because when when you see on the right the the registration goes between a 6 lb arrow and the six VBR the source of that packet cannot be the 6lowpan note at the end of the network it has to be the guy who sends the packet so to do this proxy registration by the 6 lb I\u0027m sorry a lot of a laser but you see between the 6 lb are on the 6 DB of there is this NS here oh I\u0027m missing an e here you see that the source of the packet is the 6 ampere but the target is the 6 foot peg note right so so that clarifies why we had to change the source because in the original six up and ending the source address of the NS was what was registered now it\u0027s the target okay but we know from a six cio without we\u0027re in the compatible world or not so we know what to do and yes optionally in the NSC arrow you can see the AP and the options that come down next slide please "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "and there is the the flow back so after a time out on the backbone the address is unique so that\u0027s the six backbone router size in a row to to the 6 lb r and that flows back as previously nothing very surprising that\u0027s pretty much what thanks like so I will give you more about the eyes I have like four or five slides one per review so I think it\u0027s worth going through at least my summary of the review because these are were all great great reviews very detailed a lot of comments so I\u0027m just giving you a short summary of the main items so Tim Shawn from interior told us that that\u0027s that steam we told us that using UI 64 at all was probably a bad idea so we have it for backward compatibility the group never discussed about completely des practically Despres creating that so we may and that\u0027s something to be discussed here I have a plan to duplicate it there was a lot of text from him and I guess with Dave as well we discussed the text on privacy at Rice and how we can clarify what we do about privacy yes Tim asked for because you remember we have we had this document about requirements we are we used to have a requirements right these requirements is is dead now stand out but I copied it mostly in appendix so people would know what we serve and actually it was not clear what this document serves us as what\u0027s left to be served by further documented or what is already served by different documents so I made this table with the state of the art of what I know which document do what so as so we can figure out of the long list of requirements that we knew which one I\u0027ve served by which document also required us to add the glossary and part of the further review move the glossary from appendix all the way up to terminology last but not least there was this important command by team and that\u0027s something to think about and please come to the Michael to the main list about this since we are holding a registry of addresses in the six row and then in the 6lv are there might be a day where this registry goes out of space it could be an attack here there is text in the Security section about protecting oneself from attacks and the question there was like is there a minimum number of addresses that we should be storing for every device what what\u0027s that value what\u0027s the minimum what is what is a good value and and the question is not really for us but for six months so maybe there is an interesting work to be asked from six man about you know when when you have a device which has to store information about bottles to store "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:00",
    "text": "information about the devices how much space does it need per your device at least the many says I cannot support this amount of device or something like that you have to do something about creating more autism okay so that that was an interesting question by Tim the draft doesn\u0027t have an answer but either comment on that but if you have it on Twitter slide away I hope it\u0027s on yours as well but maybe because we\u0027ll see otherwise please come to make anyone so then we are we are joking and Chris and so yes some terms were found to be offensive like legacy talking about the original f 675 so we moved we changed that or FC 675 only meaning supports the Sierra 6725 but not des that was the first change of the name so if you look intermediate draft the UI 6 2016 4 field which was the unique ID field was renamed to registration unique ID to really refer to the fact that the scope of this information is the registration itself not the whole world and it cannot be used for inferring things in between registrations and the new option came in new requirements set on the operation and management so there is a new attempt well it has requirements maybe nothing matching them but at least we have those requirements stated now what was yoga next slide please Dave now please feel free it\u0027s just a short summary I mean I just picked some highlights maybe I was wrong picking those just correct me so that\u0027s this version fear 14 where the DF flag came in it was not taste come out like I say it was the power of discussion with all the wrong people tiny a the inflection had been a rolls back sign put it down it should be in the six lows back to put it down so that the role device the backward opportunity with repo still works a lot of rewarding on the rover field explaining what it is what its copies etcetera and yes they comment stated here as well what is the minimum number of addresses so Dave Taylor my question is partly for Eric who\u0027s sitting back here so if your question so this is in response to your point Pascal about saying well maybe this is a job for six men in the normal neighbor discovery right the router has some cash that I can\u0027t forward about an entry in there but it can evict entries in the cache and repopulate them with new ones just with performance issues and so you can evict stuff in the cache whenever you want as long as you\u0027re willing to do the extra exchange to repopulate them my understanding is you can\u0027t do that for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "the for the things that are registered with aro so my question is really is there any other case in six-man where you can\u0027t evict a particular thing the cash or is this really a six low specific problem that quite and the answer belongs here I\u0027m wondering maybe it\u0027s not appropriate to throw it over to six man unless there\u0027s some case that comes up outside the scope of six well I\u0027m asking the technical question because if there\u0027s no other case other than the six low point about aro then it\u0027s a six low problem not a six man problem yeah so I mean this thing only shows up in this specification and 6775 there\u0027s the I tried a couple of years back to get six month to say well this could actually apply more broadly across other links and that didn\u0027t go very far so you know it\u0027s efficient to have it in here okay thank you for that so I believe that you cannot throw this over the wall the six man it should be addressed and this working group and potentially with review from them but it\u0027s your problem because you created it so you well we right create it so we should solve it in this working group and not trying to throw it over there and so for what is the minimum I argued my email well obviously the answer isn\u0027t zero okay and I think most people would agree that the answer isn\u0027t one because that means you can\u0027t use both local and global addresses or something like that I think many people will also argue that the answer can\u0027t be two because that would say that you can\u0027t use privacy addresses and on privacy addresses and so certainly the minimum is greater than or equal to two but is there a higher number it ought to be and this is the group that I think is the one that actually needs to make a recommendation because we created the problem they should review it or whatever but I claim the number better be at least two maybe higher yeah and of course six six man would say infinite right but because we created the problem right so you gotta come up with some number that we think is reasonable well we can come up with a number which is reasonable for all case because we know a number of things yeah but then when you want to port this document for a large of couples like six men they would have to revise this number probably the world something much higher use in here what we have is we have a link loco at least one which is derived from the UI 64 that\u0027s used for making the registration the reservation the registration we have a global address or ul8 rice which is derived from the UI 64 and that\u0027s used for the trade process and at the end of the join process and mostly we have one which is based on the short address on the pan ID that\u0027s the three sixth of an original 15 4 so on 15 4 you end up with 4 or 3 addresses at least right on a normal host meaning one that just follows RFC\u0027s on a regular that the number is approximately 10 right so you get that from one link local maybe one ula and the one regular global address "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:02",
    "text": "and for privacy addresses you have the address of the day for the last 7 days yep and so you add those together and your minimum bound for normal behavior would be about 10 and that\u0027s assuming that you don\u0027t have multiple subnet prefixes per link so if you get into home that cases we might have multiple subnets / link then just multiply that by the number that you want to allow for but it\u0027s on the order of tens or tens not ones yes and that\u0027s back to your question do we serve this group in which case three is a good minimum I\u0027m not saying you only three right but it\u0027s a minimum of six not by only saying three is good for going anywhere outside of this constraint network where you comprise the IP address based on the MAC address blah then you need a lot more and so should we expect for just our minimal minimal minimal need or should respect for something broader you can see description you can must for the three and should for something larger if you want like that would be one way to deal with it I\u0027m here for a completely different reason so like do you want to go through this first I do only like there\u0027s something that\u0027s been bugging me and I have to say it like and then kind of like think about it in the working group as well so that\u0027s the tip processing in the draft the transaction ID so I\u0027m a bit uncomfortable with the text there currently because it says like this is like the same as ripple for for being consistent but I\u0027m copying and pasting the text but okay so yes okay so it\u0027s one or the other so either like we say this is the algorithm we use and just put it in there or we say we use the ripple algorithm because the the issue is like if the ripple thing gets changed at some point in the future we are gonna have an inconsistency from this document it says like hey if you want to do our triple does and also do this so I I thought about this quite a bit like ever since like well hit like I\u0027ve been thinking about it\u0027s like something right from 80 well time but I just wanted to like the working group to make a considered decision on how to go about this because I really don\u0027t like it okay I just don\u0027t wanna push it on the working group but I would either like a straight reference saying go look at 65 50 like you know take it from there or just put this algorithm copy and paste but don\u0027t say it 60 or 50 say this is the algorithm and be done with it so that\u0027s 80 hat off comment leave that to the chairs because this discussion happened once already and this is a result of we changed from pointing to what we have so I do what you asked me to changed some text and then you went back initially it was a pointer to us in 65 50 and I took the inline text of 65 50 instead saying it is inline text of 65 50 and now it\u0027s suresh telling us he is either I come back to what I was before or I remove the fact that it\u0027s a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "reference I just keep the copy tags but I don\u0027t say it\u0027s copied from 65 50 right that\u0027s fine with me so keep the text don\u0027t say it\u0027s 165 50 like you know IETF V Lee we provide outgoing writes for every RFC so we can take freely from any IETF document and copy and paste write like because like you\u0027re kind of putting in the expectation of being in sync because I don\u0027t know why it needs to be in sync with ripple right that\u0027s like personally may or may not be an implementation thing but you\u0027re putting in like a false expectation that will be in sync because ripple might change independently that\u0027s really my concern I don\u0027t mind whichever way it\u0027s done but well even if we recall challenges we have those difference repo by name we were front c-65 shifty right so it\u0027s that one people change 6550 is of the leader right at some point people are gonna say hey like do what do I do right it\u0027s really good if we want this device to follow it we\u0027ll have to revise this as well otherwise we\u0027ll be mismatched I mean whatever we put there I mean this is no solution to the fact that the implementation will have to change I am a Shan but if like that the reason for linking the Drupal as you\u0027re expecting the implementations to be shared yes if that\u0027s the thinking then you\u0027re on the same loader then I would just say like a straight reference otherwise I\u0027ll just say copy and paste and don\u0027t say anything about ripple tornado so oh thank you I would hope we\u0027re doing this beyond ripple right this is being done in signal because supposed to be independent of rocker off you don\u0027t want to use work or you don\u0027t have to you can use something else and hopefully this might serve as oh it cannot depend on ripple it\u0027s gotta be self-contained it\u0027s all second ocean yeah copy impersonal reference if somebody else wants to change its their owners too maybe hey sit low would you you know consider this change because it makes things better for these routing protocols fine we can reconsider that you should because well contain get mark agreed to be self-contained but if you worked in this room you wouldn\u0027t know this so you should actually capture this in the document which has at the time of this writing this is the same as in repo have a rapport might change and we might not that\u0027s what an implementer needs to know saying that when ripple changes because he compared the command say it\u0027s the same right and Angele use a library for that and then someone goes the changes like no provide the information don\u0027t have them guess did you understand no say at the time of this writing this algorithm is the same as in RFC whatever so that people that do the diffs actually know what was discussed in this room saying that well just because ripple changes doesn\u0027t mean that these things change okay so my pazzo laws just say this is how you compare tea IDs for this document that\u0027s it it doesn\u0027t talk anything about ripple "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:03",
    "text": "and if you make the implementers life easier you should then make it explicitly be different it\u0027s like saying you\u0027re using TCP sequence numbers arithmetic well does that mean that if TCP were to change does this thing change or not you need to be explicit about what happens when change happens as opposed to saying well the words are the same if I read it does it mean it\u0027s the same or not I have to guess well the fact that it cites something today without being explicit what happens when change happens makes it fuzzy as well at least it says the origin but if you want to say this is the origin but they can change independently of us but that\u0027s what matters an implementer he says doesn\u0027t change what what I was asking for what I was asking for is this be completely normal and came within itself it could provide extra informational knowledge like what you suggested that\u0027s fine that\u0027s not normally correct it\u0027s just explaining that these things are independent they happened to have been the same at some point in time but it cannot be normal ya know in self-contained so we agree with the Reg we say at the times writing this this operation is compatible with that in RFC 60 5550 okay yes sir two minutes okay so um I see I\u0027ll have to go to AP nd then I guess so I already discussed that the arrow length is now changeable I want a working group to be very very aware if there is any problem because we have very short time in front of us 60 IO is the only option to discover the only way to discover whether we\u0027re in the backward compatible world or if we can use this back in the full capability name of the unique ID is now rather because it\u0027s how we verify the ownership of one registration then Peter again gave us very very good and deep review a lot of help for my French even after Dave there was a lot left so sorry for that yes I have to go to a PNG because there are big changes there so first big challenge is now we align to the name of you see it\u0027s called a rover now as before we have a sea flag the sea flag indicates that the rover is a crypto token as specified by this specification which allows us to basically obtain a proof of ownership of the address later so the first come first serve first time your register latrise you provide the rover whatever that is but then later we can use that to do a cryptographic "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:04",
    "text": "verification that you\u0027re the one who did it in the first place yeah so the challenge in the flow is like this right when there is a crypto ID and I will need my laser [Music] oops obviously the resident working so when when the CBT said the rover is of type crypto idea right the Lance tell you tells you it is 64 bits or more so if the six Allah doesn\u0027t add the crypto information and the first time that will happen then there is status saying validation requested in the notes and basically that nonce was missing in the specs like somos ago so it\u0027s very clear the nonce is there and we have a router announced but we don\u0027t have a 600 knots so if you guys thinks we need both nouns maybe for some security reason we need both Mouse nonce then please let me know because we need to add our second nonce option then we actually changed a little bit the content of the second and s because we wanted to reuse options which we are present in CGI but the problem of this options in RC 39 31 32 is like the we\u0027re cold for instance eres a option and we don\u0027t do anymore Oh si right we are doing ECC so I could not really keep the name of the option we have to so the proposal here is basically to use the same formats the same code but kind of extend the name and the meaning of the option so that we can do other things then there is a pretty much and so the sepal is is the parameter option and the ndpa so is the NTP signature option and they are both derived from existing options so we are not consuming more option space and well that enables the six allow basically to reconstruct the public key because basically the crypto ID is nothing more than the ash of the public key so to make it shorter right and the the ndpa option is is the public key Li in the clear press small parameter which allows you to build more than one token with just one private key and the result of that is signed by the public key but by the private key so so you have the public key which validates from the token and sign with the private key you validate the signature okay is really honor that that\u0027s how it goes now this flow as we\u0027ve designed it and that\u0027s my big big question to this group the first big question was deluxe is it okay to extend the lungs and do you understand why we\u0027re doing it so if you don\u0027t I can explain we need to go through that and the second thing I hope subs what was it so let me go back to the first we we had "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:07",
    "text": "a 64 UI 64 field we are extending the legs or that field the reason is in CGI or a season and 72 there was there were three bits which were actually meant to make the computation of the whole thing very intensive because you were building sha ashes many times but until some bits we are already well ten with a zero you had to add a to counter and we do the ash again so that created a huge number of ash computation TL und that we a token of 64 bits which had this number of bits that you wanted with the right value that was highly highly compute-intensive on the device if we do that we can live with the rough token of 64 bit but that\u0027s highly compute-intensive on the device can still do it but the spec has removed that so if you want to come back to a model like that you have we have to talk about the mailing list what we have instead noise don\u0027t do any of this complex operation we remove the field which allows you to do that instead we say a if you want more security then you put more bits in the rubber so remember the rover is a hash of the public key okay and so what was the second thing I want you to talk about well that was the strength okay just give me so the Fela was talking about what\u0027s called the modifier so there is a huge modifier field in CGI which allows you by incrementing incrementing to go all the way till you generate a hash which has those bits that to zero but that\u0027s a big field but if I go as long we made the modifier much shorter why because if it was kept very long it could be used as an attack against what we are doing you have any key and you update the modifier you ask us you ash to till the point that you get a small Rover equal to ours so we want it for a given key to have very few tokens that you could be a lot of that we wanted to be able to build more than one token for privacy reasons so the urge that you build is really your prize you public address and the this small field but so you can build multiple tokens by changing this counter the small field but only a few of them because otherwise yet another car could use that with a single key to brute-force till he reaches that again that we have you see the point question ah disclaimer so I don\u0027t have tons of six load deployment experience and I am one of the authors of this I think it would make sense to make it longer but how to do it is is for the group to decide so do we just do 128 and that\u0027s it do we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:07",
    "text": "allow 128 256 longer short or something in between personally I think 128 and then just live with it but as I said I don\u0027t have tons of deployment experience so I don\u0027t know how that affects backwards compatibility and if somebody wants to comment on that well there is a lot of text now in the draft about this and the backward comparative compatibility is not a problem with a PNG that\u0027s why I mean it\u0027s a prime with the RSC 6775 there\u0027s a lot of discussion about that so remember with a six year yo we discover with all the six LVR and the six raf support this back and in this RC 6725 allows all the way to I think 255 256 now it\u0027s a matter of deployment it\u0027s not us right we know already 256 is being used some people are talking about 512 so should we increase the lag I mean we I have put a boundary to the line I guess to five something like that which gives us 256 so your complete part might we have to to check whether the boundary I gave is high enough I mean a recommendation could be 128 doesn\u0027t mean we have to bar it 2-2 against longer right I think at least allowing 256 is seeing a future but you could tell me go all the way to 1k I mean it\u0027s not hard it\u0027s just setting the boundary to the ranks field but we have to decide that note that it impacts the dark deck exchange remember the dark as the the same rubber field in it and today since the doubt doesn\u0027t have an option there is another consequence here since the DA doesn\u0027t have an option we don\u0027t have an option Lux so the only way to infer that the dark is the new dark is the length of the whole message meaning that if we have a longer unless we change something in the header like you know a new cmp code or something the currency simply simply code the only way to ensure the size of the rover is by the size of the whole message so we cannot add a new field and say because the lines have changed you have a new field if we say the the length of the rubber is derived from the length of the message which is what we do now the dhadak is recon strained in its current format that\u0027s because it was not designed with an option so there was no way around this so that\u0027s why it\u0027s written that way okay so think about the strikes that we need think about whether we can use 64 bits meaning we have a lot of power or the device to compute the CGA the way cg8 in it or whether it\u0027s a better idea to make a rover field longer how long it\u0027s mostly a deployment issue I mean what is the upper bound that we can give today but no it\u0027s mostly a deployment issue but then is it the right way to do I mean that\u0027s what we have now [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:08",
    "text": "good people now maybe okay I skip the Backman writer because doesn\u0027t change so we\u0027ll have to discuss the workgroup last call of the backbone router there is one thing that they can mention about a barber by one water is I gotta feel bad feedback from implementers and they tell me a we\u0027re using that but we\u0027re using it in a slightly different context because what we do and that\u0027s kind of command in intercloud etc we are using a list type of operation a resolver so that we don\u0027t have to broadcast DNS on the backbone or whatever it\u0027s not the backbone but it\u0027s what serves as a backbone they actually look up a resolver meaning that they don\u0027t need to broadcast and the just go unicast from the new location the new backbone router to the old backbone router that makes life a lot easier on a large fabric mostly issue do something with ex9 or no siree so the result of that is you don\u0027t want a broadcast message like and then that\u0027s dad to figure out where the guy was or something if the ones duplicate what they really want is a unicast from the new location to the old location and so they looked at out spec and they said ok I will do it but I will use a data exchange for unicast and I actually think it\u0027s it\u0027s ok it\u0027s a good idea and some people are doing it so can we call that in our spec say you know on the backbone router if you know Reggie well the old location was because you have a resolver or something just go unicast and you should go unicast and use a data exchange question to the room is it is it something we could document is there an opposition to document that probably it\u0027s kind of premature I don\u0027t know how many people have read that draft and understood the question right now we can take it on the list it would and so for the RFC\u0027s 6775 updated we need to do some more editorial work and then we will just fall far like right next question that\u0027s what you mean what what a tutorial it\u0027s done direct writing we need to agree on the longer thing and we need to agree on whether you know going longer is better than having this yeah yes the Bedouin water about the backbone uses using data actually cast as opposed to an SMA broadcast okay so I guess "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:09",
    "text": "moment can I just put in my usual thing here can we use internet technology here the host is called a host from host to host the the meaning of leaf is a host that is attached to that work so either you say a hose that is attached to a repo network all the time all the time all the time all you say leave host:okay a leaf can be a leaf is can be a ripple no not forwarding exactly so so it\u0027s it\u0027s actually attached to ripple Network so if you say host you\u0027re losing that\u0027s that meaning now it doesn\u0027t mean the exceptions where a leaf is actually a router for instance if it doesn\u0027t know the instance ID you I sitting on so it doesn\u0027t know how a ripple is operated there I can still inject packets then it\u0027s on the leaf its router it\u0027s a host if it speaks Richter a ripple it\u0027s a leaf if it doesn\u0027t speak it\u0027s a host okay sorry Karsten and Pascal we need to cut it off right now because we have lots of other presentations we can discuss offline or on the muse list but this term is already defined in 6550 the way i\u0027m saying okay this is yes it is it is because I was presenting a roll presentation for the interest of this group that\u0027s what that\u0027s why it\u0027s here I think we agreed yeah so okay there is a new draft now a triple and because now we have our CC 735 update and all this work that we just served so now we can have a real host doing only 6lowpan attaching to a repo network and getting all the good benefits of ripple rotting of seamless moving morbidity between do dogs etc etc so that means a little bit more work on the raw side but on the 6lowpan side we are all set that\u0027s the con news so now this is a new draft at all and we\u0027ll be discussing it tomorrow and it explains exactly the challenges we do enroll so that now we have the fall star and thank you I think we need to stop here we are almost 15 minutes over slides please look at the slide show interested I\u0027ve come to rolls tomorrow morning oh good my name is Jung Hwan choi from a tree I show you I\u0027ve got "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:09",
    "text": "just quite cake presentation for this time and this is the first story on status of my happy bestow NFC I should have got me to eight times our division at this time is the ninth revision the photon that the nine is about the end and the issue actually there was a meeting of fry meeting miss Pascale in the previous meeting in Singapore actually at a time I just almost all reflect the comment from the comment and but I just miss one thing there was from the paschal 6ln to T cell and how to exchange or their own information each other but I just put four there I just put just the last sentence fool but the new Lesbos just that just take they used it the LLC RSVP in link layer and I\u0027ve still Rocco so they used their protocol to exchange at their own information start to put they want a quick change just so they saw and just we I have we have just 3d view photo walking Rosco and actually I just put this behind but maybe something maybe you can see that the slide the under in your wrapper is yes yes they show this document is in last call last call for March is saved 20 2018 but that\u0027s all thank you thank you so there were some reviews before last call but during last call I don\u0027t think I saw any understand no no comment any comment varying telescope so if you have looked at this if you care about this document please send in doesn\u0027t have to be a deep comment if you just think it\u0027s in reasonable shape and it should go forward please do say that but positive AK is very very useful by the way we\u0027re hope let\u0027s call us over on Monday right but please still go ahead and send your positive X or more but at least positive acts would be very different thank you thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:25",
    "text": "[Music] hello I\u0027m Charlie Perkins from Huawei and I\u0027m here to tell you about a recent update for the deadline time document how\u0027s that okay all right so I\u0027m Charlie Perkins and I\u0027m here to tell you about the deadline time routing header this document has gotten pretty good comments for the last previous IDs and I think we\u0027ve made good progress on it basically what it does is and allows you to tell what deadline time is for packet delivery and if a packet is not delivered in time to meet the deadline then you can drop it you can also include the origination time so that devices along the path the routing path can determine how long the packets actually been going and this enables you to do some digital indecision so for instance if you see a packet that\u0027s just as an example if you see if you receive a packet that\u0027s sort of getting close to the deadline maybe you allow it to be routed in preference to other things that have less urgent delivery deadlines as it\u0027s assumed that the networks are the devices that are looking at this header are in time synchronized networks otherwise they can\u0027t really know what the deadline time actually means and then there\u0027s a simple mechanism for allowing you to make sense for the deadline time even if you cross over time zone boundary so drafts been around for more than a year and we\u0027ve presented it and got some good comments and they included the origination time made sort of compression mechanism for representing the time in the header and then we for the next revisions we included the slot number as a time unit and made some slight improvements in the header compression all along there\u0027s been implementation and that\u0027s available for open WS n and you can look on github and you\u0027d look in the presentation materials for the for the URL I wouldn\u0027t expect you to want to read those so then after after all that the draft was adopted as a working group document there was a lot of interest and now we have our last update is actually quite a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:25",
    "text": "minor updates we read through it and fixed a few little editorial things it was requested that we put in some information about how the time synchronization can be achieved between the networks and it\u0027s not I think it\u0027s clearly out of scope for this document to make a normative requirement for that but we did borrow language from another draft that had a similar similar goal and we just put in the time synchronization mechanisms that were appropriate or at least feasible and the or was in the previous draft reference to the OEM which has been in the meantime been adopted as a working group document in IEEE ppm so it was we should cite the working group document and this is not normative and also the most substantive change was that you modify the meaning of the drop flag from should to must so actually I still think it\u0027s a little bit in the middle somewhere and like strongly should but anyway it\u0027s now says must and the last thing we did was according to a comment received on the mailing list is to describe what kind of delays are observable in the network and this is purely informative and I don\u0027t well anyway as far as I know the draft was already pretty close before we made these changes and now it\u0027s extremely close so and like to have requests any comments or suggestions about the draft just to briefly review here the changes you can see as there\u0027s a must is in red and there\u0027s a slot I mean there\u0027s a time unit for the network slot number and then other than that oh one thing about this could be slightly misleading and that is that the fields for the a delay time in the origination time which are called DT and ot they are not mandated to be 16 bits they can be optional lengths and according to let\u0027s see do I get a pointer here so to the values that are specified in the delay time length in the origination time length that determines the length of these fields so that\u0027s it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:31",
    "text": "I think documents ready appreciate a more review and consideration and if there\u0027s uh if you agree that the documents pretty much ready we\u0027d I\u0027d like to request a working group last call is this one you want to see okay that\u0027s it thank you very much [Music] good afternoon ladies gentlemen my name is Jung Geun hyung working for ETL I so this is the presentation of update.zip throw up credibility and use kiss threat okay this is the history of this trip so this this time is the first revision so I would like to emphasize the goal of this document the goal of this document is help zip troll g-proteins tech adaptation by air to contain technology and help a newcomer understand how she pretends there can be a global in practice so we onto this trapped could be useful for new adapter over IOT add idea Piscotty do you mean adoption here on trade Fiat help six losses Levin stack adoption attrition adaptation is adapt over you so after all the update since the last meeting so we add to a practical six row deployment scenario one is g3 Piercy uses and another is net ways to use easier and we update MSTP part so thanks to Carolyn and they were loving so they have to obey the MSTP part and we add the sixth row bluetooth matched on draft in this document and we made some editor of the so in this thread we have seven or specified "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:32",
    "text": "wrinkle a technology G Waverly that really MSTP and NFC I took a PLC and I\u0027d refer eight it that if in that echo and one might or one we have potential candidate that is the LP MPC so I concert eight and the check that the one of the author of this rep to Nyong\u0027o of who he\u0027s working for SK Telecom in South Korea the largest number one mobile operator so they have a friend to deploy ipv6 on-air t and l TM t she but importantly in this case the cipro the patient layer is not needed because the LT LT empty she can provide transmission ipv6 without the help of the six role technology so I want to remove in the extra vision so this is the current status of the regarding LT MVC cases so if I was wrong so if there are some missing then let us know then we can check once again the case of LT MVC so is the comparison across the zip through the creatine ology so letter part is the obvious part so the MSTP uses we modify the building automation and really MSTP the earth can already and sub Annette was changed like this so in this draft we have the guideline product in IP which tests that you can check that yes I think that the most important part in this rep is to sit row deployment scenarios so in this doctoral working group we are talking about the Trotec analogy or more interesting is the is there any real world to adopt isotropic analogy so until now we found the poor area one is Jupiter mesh and why son disrepair see and yet risky so wiesen is what so described in the last revision so on the behalf of the Weisen Lyons a poor toffee have to prepare this text and also to fight image we have attacked by the help of the micro lab salinity and dozens to be R to provide his text okay so in this revision we add g3 Piercy G\u0027s repair see is narrow PNP analogies so now it support ipv6 and ipv4 at the paint layer so Jin Cong Hui at Hawaii to help to prepare these texts also the aresty program in home flow of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:32",
    "text": "powerline Alliance they also have a some diploma Janerio pasted on door six rostec these texts also come from the Qin Qin Hui at Hawaii so this is the design space dimension you can see it there are some a couple of the design space dimension okay so in the appendix section we have a couple of the 600 use cases so each of the six wrote canal ad so we update our use case of MSTP in this division we describe the building automation network based on MST Aitken allergy so edges test to Carolyn and they were live in to apace to dispersal thanks to and the other Li the same as the previous version so picture so I think that this draft is a kind of the stable version so what we will want to or caterer will track other the useful information to deploys a 6-row technology in the real world so if you have some deployment scenario in real world don\u0027t let us know that we can add world obtain this threat so teacher now in Montenegro so um I like what you\u0027re saying about removing something that is not really related to stuff we\u0027ve done here in six the working group this LT think we have no document that points that like the work we\u0027ve done here for to I to adapt that so we should delete it definitely along those lines new tricity I couldn\u0027t I couldn\u0027t grasp very well what document that we have done here or that we have adopted points at what the adaptation for electricity also why is the NFC NFC is the 0-9 person so we have the Pierce document Piercy is also individual draft so so the enough electricity is NFC oh no no it is the Piercey Piercey analogy PLC oh the one that is not yet adopted that\u0027s nutritive yeah okay but we\u0027re discussing it here and okay got it yeah interested yeah I think that criteria in general should be we\u0027re doing work here then okay sure we otherwise it does yeah if you see the comparison table we add some electronic document so among them the pearcy is individual draft so we yeah have a some conservationists it\u0027s progressing and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:32",
    "text": "arguably this document will help them to know what they need to do to get it to be adoptable so yeah that\u0027s reasonable but yeah if we don\u0027t have a document down there then we shouldn\u0027t have a column for it okay okay thanks okay thank you hi Bob hi Sun Alliance just a point of information nutrition is now part of why Sun yeah yes yeah so I just noticed that in there a more I want to say that I heard that there so it will fit for - why\u0027s that in pewter yeah so it is not OB sir announcement so I don\u0027t date it as we all right thank you okay okay so next is a design team okay good afternoon my name is Tomas latina I\u0027m chairing the six low fragmentation design team that we created a couple of months ago and together with at the last tight yes yeah I I have a slide on that so there\u0027s six of us looking at added what we believe is a rather old problem which is fragment forwarding and we believe that we have some elegant way of dealing with it so this is the context so pre IT f99 fragmentation has been brought up a number of times in these meetings and so we decided to to look at it and so the sexto chairs asked us at ITF 99 - there\u0027s four volunteers to create a design team the design team met for the first time at ITF 100 Singapore we formally created the design team and so here we are four months later to present a number of things I\u0027m going to present problem statement and goals it will take me about 10 minutes Carsten will then present a draft on minimal you know an implementation technique to do fragment forwarding without changing anything due to protocols it\u0027s a kind of elegant thing and the Pascal will present fragment forwarding now I need to say that we have been discussing this quite a bit for the last couple of days this has already been presented l wig so some of these slides are a little bit outdated and some of these sides you might have seen already but we wanted to to do a full report during these 40 minutes that we have now so this is the this is the goal of the 40 next of the 30 next minutes I\u0027m going to start by giving a overview of what the problem is and what the goals are and I\u0027ll hand it over to to talk about the implementation technique I think that we so as a design team we have some something to report "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:32",
    "text": "six law I think we will live it to the end to talk about the future of the design team and how we how we move on from now on but that but we have very clear idea and we\u0027ve already discussed it kind of privately with us with the chairs just one correction we have 30 minutes 20 minutes seems sounds good that should be good so problem statement we have had fragmentation part of RFC 49 forty four and six to eighty two for a while and so the naive way of implementing it is doing per hop reassembly and I\u0027ll show you that that has some some problems there are some candidate solutions that will do fragment forwarding including Karstens book and carson renamed it to jackson person\u0027s book sorry I will correct this orally and then Pascal has had this draft for fragment wording that also provides a piece of the answer to that to that problem and I\u0027ll finish these three or four slides by the goals of the design team so that everybody\u0027s up to up to speed so in 49:44 what is defined as a link layer fragmentation technique which which is used in route over which allows you to reassemble at every hop that means that the packet that\u0027s too long is fragmented too many little pieces these little pieces are sent to the next hop and then the next hop you reassemble them in a recently buffer and then you either have raised level that completely form a new ipv6 packet and then and then and for that further on or you weren\u0027t able to resettle everything and there\u0027s some time out that will cause that reassembly buffer to be to be dropped so the naive one remaining in this is to do per hop reassembly that is at 1/2 pi fragmented I said it to my neighbor my name resembles resembles everything reef Ragman sit sends it to its neighbor a teacher etc this has not changed in RFC six to eight two there\u0027s a one sentence about reassemble it says basically six to eight two does not touch the fragmentation part of 4944 so the problems are that if you do pro pre fragmentation and reassembly you have two major issues the first one is latency you have to wait for the last fragment to four you have to read wait to receive the last fragment before you can start sending the first fragment out to your next hub the second problem is probably the the biggest one that is a problem with reliability because you need those huge buffers to do reassembly in if you\u0027re reassembling one packet and you receive a fragment from a second packet it is very possible that you run out of RAM memory especially on these little constrained devices and so you have no other option but to drop that packet and so your your you know your your network that you\u0027ve been building so so with so much love kind of don\u0027t deliver any type of reliability and so everything goes goes bad so we want to solve that so the proposed solution is to do fragment forwarding fragment forwarding means I have a fragment that goes from A to B well B instead of having it in the buffer and waiting for the whole packet "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:29:32",
    "text": "to reassemble it will for that fragment immediately so if I\u0027m sending data from a node into a mesh onto the internet for example the source node will fragment the packets will send it to the next hop that will immediately for it immediate and it\u0027s only at the LPR at the egress point of your network that you do the full reassembly before sending that as of course surely valid IP you six-pack it on to the internet so there\u0027s been a couple of example solutions there is this paragraph here in Saxon Carson\u0027s book that that shows you one implementation technique I won\u0027t read this because that\u0027s actually the the purpose of the next slides is to kind of ride out how this how this works another solution RAF was Frank the fording fragment draft bye-bye Pascal which not only does fragment forwarding but also adds on top of that fragment recovery meaning if I\u0027m a source node I can as the destination node whether how many of my friends it had received and that the destination can then tell me hey you I\u0027m missing fragment three and five and you resend it so the goals of the design team so that\u0027s kind of the context of where we were beginning of the Singapore meeting the context of the design team is to produce two documents within the sixth row workgroup one is an informal document which summarizes the fragmentation and kind of critiques what is going on right now and what the problem statement is the second bullet point we have been this is where it when I told you those sides were a little bit outdated we have discussed this with Carson with six or chairs to produce that second bullet point to have it be its own standalone document that is progressing in the El Whig working group which is the technical description of the virtual recently buffer but the informational 6lo document will still discuss its limits and how kind of life is with everything the second sexual document is a standard stock document which looks very much like pascal\u0027s a fragment forwarding draft which defines a new protocol that does among other things fragment recovery which deep implementation that knee does not do okay so the philosophy of the design team is to to move fast close it as fast as we can let\u0027s discuss a little bit later what where we think we are and that\u0027s I think the end of my slides Carson do you want me to run through these we want to send these so I did the full presentation in Arabic yesterday I don\u0027t really want to repeat that was there yesterday okay good so in the mineral fragment document there there are a few sections about the context and the battery assembly buffer "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:32",
    "text": "technique the funny thing is that I submitted my draft my person here after how to do this about 24 hours before Thomas did so we now have to draft with essentially the same information so just to remind you what happens normally in every assembly buffer is you a reassemble all the fragments you get and only when you have all of them you actually forward the packet which means you would then burst out those fragments and that has a few problems as Thomas noted and the ideas with the virtual reassembly buffer is simply to implement a reassembly buffer but will not actually store the data any longer then you absolutely have to and normally this means that as soon as a fragment comes in you can actually forward the the equivalent fragment of the the new packet you would have sent out by changing the header in the first fragment and just copying out the fragment in the rest of the cases the only thing you have to do is the thing you would have to would have done with a winner recently buffer as well of course you need to remember under which Datagram tag you are sending out the fragments on the outgoing link so on the incoming link you got a Datagram tag designed by the previous hub and you have to manage your own Datagram tags because that Datagram tag might have been taken that you actually now get there so you essentially just have a table that pairs source and destination addresses and Datagram tags and that\u0027s all you need to stop so that\u0027s really very little information and the nice thing is you can have many many more of these virtual reality buffers then the big rear ones now what I said is not entirely true because too far were the fragment you actually need media access and of course if the media access is under contention you may be in a situation where you get more fragments in that you actually can can get rid of so you still need to have some some buffer space of course but this is buffer space that is measured in fragments and not in entire packet buffers that you need to have reserved but that are unused most of the time so things apart from what I just said things you have to consider is you might have to wait for more than one fragment "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:35:33",
    "text": "if the first fragment doesn\u0027t contain all the information you will need to make the layer three forwarding decision for instance if you have a giant salt rotting table that is not going to work out of order fragments are a problem of course one question that would be really interesting to see is do we actually have them in real world networks and a little piece of complication is that the incoming fragment and the outgoing fragment can actually have different header compression efficiencies so you might get a 127 byte fragment in it might have to send a 129 bit byte fragment out which you can\u0027t since all the header compressions that happens in the first fragment the recommendation is to just put the slack into the first fragment so instead of fragmenting 128 1:28 50 your fragrant 50 120 80 to 128 so if the 50 turns into 54 that\u0027s not a problem you don\u0027t have to the forward that doesn\u0027t have to create a new fragment the the Desertec situation is essentially the same as with rear wheel assembly buffers except that the resources consumed by every assembly buffer are much smaller now so it\u0027s somewhat mitigated but of course somebody who really wants to over load you can still send you tons of first fragments um there is no fragment recovery in this technique it\u0027s just an implementation technique and also just as with with reassembly buffers you have to send out all the fragments on the same link so you cannot do per fragment routing and as soon as you need one of these things you actually need more protocol so you cannot just use 494 for and implement it this way you need additional protocol I just looked it up Pascal submitted the the grandfather of trivial Sixto fragment recovery on february 6th 2008 8 yeah happy anniversary I\u0027m yes from India so this shows previous simulation result I implemented both RC 49:44 resembling a fragmentation mechanism and also the the drug patent asks or the minimum fragment so that what the court sent now explained so I\u0027d like so maybe you know the the idea is the blue line is a fragment falling "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:35",
    "text": "that\u0027s using the via the table so that\u0027s consumed less much much less memory compared to the 49 portable so that the x-axis it\u0027s a number of a fragment or pocket so one fragment per pocket means no yes fragmentation so that but why the graph starts 100% so there so I\u0027d write you as everything which are not covered in this slide so the the unless I did the topology that is used to in the decimation so link period of 100% there\u0027s no frame loss and also I said at X buffer in each mode is large enough that means yes no frame loss due to the text buffer overflow and also the sink node at the top of the root node have no memory limitation to try to understand what happened in the intermediate node so yeah so that\u0027s very appreciative dissolved and I\u0027m I\u0027m around there so it\u0027s contact me if we want to know more details thank you thank you yeah yeah you can run this yourself if you want at this address actually I want to ask one quick question so did you analyze something that in what kind of situations like the the number of hops the by its scent in which cases we can use the minimal fragment type of solution or in the other case we will go the full-blown yeah we so this slide here is to illustrate the usefulness of minimal fragment compared to 49:44 it does not attempt to compare minimum forwarding compared to fragment recovery that that Pascal is is going to present at all we have known as that all the the only thing this shows is that if you even if your the the links between the nodes are perfect the packet of the ratio is 100% you\u0027re still losing a lot of packets because of the lack of ram memory in node one here and so this one you know basically node one gets a fragment from node 2 starts reassembling then it gets a fragment from node 6 and drops that because there is no not enough space and so what you see here is and if you had an infinite memory everything would be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:41:35",
    "text": "perfect rather you do fragment forwarding or not it would be perfect but as soon as you introduce the limitation of memory which is very real you lose data so we have results with one reassembly buffer to resettle you our first really buffers it gets a little bit better but but you never get to 100% the way the way the minimum fragment plus you see the difference on ram there\u0027s about a five x factor of ram memory i mean there\u0027s no question this is this is just this is just working better as an implementation technique that everybody should use of course this this slide and this work does not at all compare this the limits of minimal fragment with fragment covering so just playing with minimal fragment what we\u0027re working on is is is more big bigger scenarios with real traces to to see like large deployments that we know that we master at least kind of things kind of going beyond the simple canonical case that you see on the left here to something more real but we don\u0027t expect the results to be very different I mean we\u0027ll just provide some fancier numbers but it will be the same bass message we haven\u0027t thought about comparing the tool approaches yet it will happen somewhere so so one point of clarification and probably this slide here is is wrong but we had this big you know because we had a decentralization of one day between our different drafts what we will do is have two 6lo I mean what the plan is is to have two six little documents and one L wig document the first six will document explains the context and the limits of the different implementation techniques the yellow wig document contains the actual very short description of the implementation technique itself and in the six second six goal document this pascal\u0027s draft about Franco\u0027s recovery so that\u0027s the plan we chose me to discuss it in the meanwhile and I\u0027m just looking for the blue sheets where are the blue sheets everybody signed them so in interest of time because we not have it I won\u0027t go through any details about what this drug does but just what the update here\u0027s the main update is the title has changed because the draft was doing two things it was doing fragment forwarding and he was doing fragments recovery and over least ten years history of this draft that Justin has been talking about the name has changed back and forth between insisting on the recovery side and and the fawning side and I never knew which one to pick up for the title but now this is finally resolved because I just took out of the draft the description of the forwarding because now it\u0027s in constants raft so that that makes my life simpler about finding a title to it that also makes my life about explaining how the forwarding works because Caston is giving a lot more and better details on this so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:38",
    "text": "basically the main Tiff\u0027s between this drop zero zero and the fragment forwarding away that was in the original agenda is that the details of the mpls operation using the data can tag our god right but that doesn\u0027t did not actually take out a lot of the draft that was a small piece it was a very important piece obviously but it was small now we insist on the fact that because we are doing the acknowledgement back we not only have one LSP from the source of this nation but as we are forming this path we are also forming the return path from the destination to the source which labels us to send the acknowledgement so conceptually if you and that\u0027sthat\u0027s to be synchronized with Gaston but if you see that the VOB as as part of this constituent label switch path they are for my draft I need two of them so it will be better and I don\u0027t know how will synchronize with Gaston but the draft actually the customs graph shows the VOB as a buffer but also an LST and so I can say okay now I\u0027m doing sign but I have a second SP for the way back okay that that\u0027s what I intend to do the other thing is because the description of the three draft was not exactly clear at the time of the publication of this draft I\u0027m pointing untrust batini for for the forwarding and they would have to change that to point on draft custom right and that\u0027s that\u0027s how it\u0027s gonna work otherwise I mean you know like Gaston say that the operation there it\u0027s been there for a while so if you want at a next session I can go into more details about how the acknowledgement works etc but we don\u0027t have time today so let me just show you the difference between what we do here and what when the value of changing ever having the new Donna track format is first we can do selective recovery of individual fragments we have a bitmap pretty much like we do in help Iran and the bitmap expresses the individual fragments so the acknowledgment back all the way well tell which fragments were lost it\u0027s not the only problem that we solve if you remember the presentation I made several ATF\u0027s ago I listed like five or six problems and forwarding and the size of buffers were one of two of these primes but some of them were due to the second stall sending of multiple fragments which could interfere with one another and even if you have the actual buffers if you push too many buffers too fast I cussed and said into a device you may still have a right number of buffers that it has since the DCP days we know that the optimal number of things that you can put on the network is at most one per hop so the idea is how can we control the number of fragments and how can we face the fragments that we send about the networks so we don\u0027t eat conditions to stay in the condition of college of congestion inside the network "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:47:38",
    "text": "so there is some congestion control here so this goes beyond these benefits from everything that Thomas said but this goes beyond into protecting the network and preventing the loss of individual individual fragments even if fragments are lost then we can we try them finally since we haven\u0027t when signaling now because we have an Espeon both directions we can explicitly notify the source and every hop that there is an about condition or that the flow is complete this is kind of interesting because you know when you can clean your gob so thanks to the design team I think we have good answers for some of the at least the initial questions that we set up to to to resolve at this point the the question for the design team a team is are you okay with the direction you\u0027re giving the work at the drafts that you were giving to the working group is there anything else you would like to still attack but before the solving promise yeah I see Carson standing up I wanted to wrap up but if you have any comments please reason no no I just wanted to to remind people that of course the normal working group process no start so we need comments on these three the three documents are not done they\u0027re not the intended to we go to regular class next week absolutely something yes would they go back to working group so for tiramillas Christian we know of three documents that will now come into the regular working process is the design team done so yeah so that\u0027s exactly the point I was going to make I mean in the end these are workgroup documents they\u0027re not design team documents so III think we\u0027re done once once those three documents have entered the pipeline within the different working groups I\u0027m asking actually asking for your for your advice if we were in two documents I think we should close the work the design team right now since we\u0027re talking about now three documents one elevate to six low I think there\u0027s a little bit of editorial work to be done on my on the on the first six real document so I would feel more comfortable if you agree to to not close the design team right now just let us do this for a couple of weeks and then once it\u0027s in the pipelines we just close the design team yeah I think I think that makes sense because we know in theory there\u0027s gonna be three but we have to don\u0027t have them so until we have them there\u0027s probably you know to continue synchronized swimming and meeting or discussing yeah now I make sense yeah until we see them up here yep yeah so I should notice I don\u0027t should we should "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:39",
    "text": "we wait for workgroup adoption before closing designs in where\u0027s this orthogonal I don\u0027t know I it\u0027s orthogonal I think it goes into the design team output this like an individual\u0027s okay okay so there\u0027s the video would go into the work little process and eventually you would get hopefully okay so there\u0027s no requirement of that\u0027s okay no I think like suresh krisshnan so I think these are like orthogonal you can keep it going on if you want like you can keep down like for the myth design team like we had the stuff in parallel right but everything still goes through consensus so we had a call like once every two weeks or whatever it\u0027s just to make sure that like anything coming in the working group process is funneled in and the results are found back right so I like you know it\u0027s like bunch of people going together and doing something right like we cannot stop it or like tell them not to meet right so that\u0027s I\u0027m personally fine just let in okay so then keeping them independent that\u0027s it okay thank you thank you so in that case I mean let\u0027s let\u0027s let\u0027s will deliver the three documents let\u0027s close it afterwards let\u0027s not leave it open for no reason thank you going once yeah thank you so now last comment from our informational just a few words from our Benjamin thanks for giving me some time to talk so I\u0027m Benjamin I\u0027m Benjamin chato I walk for Kyle we walked on the hunter platform to implement and travesties for for this platform so so we provide them from we provide some test specifications from the quraan terraces of 6lowpan for neighboor discoveries aid occupations and and all suits on testes without it occupations so you can we will send we coming to communicate to you through the meaning many missed more information from how to access to the platform and outperform the test and etc for you to be able to use this platform and while using this platform given giving giving us feedback on out who to integrate more things and ought to improve this this platform also we will also organize a 6lowpan plug test in the next six months to come so during we will send you more informations about the diet and the place for those who don\u0027t know I will explain a bit what in short run platform is girl the goddess is to provide intro txt testing Cruz who\u0027s through the cloud so you have one device in one place in another device and also distant place "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:53:39",
    "text": "and through the internet through a sexual channel you will be able to send those packets and in and make a bit of conformity or I transmit those packets to the other device and see is divisive able to communicate on it and the goal is to in is the goal is to reduce the cost of doing in trouble TTC\u0027s so if you have some questions or comments to make you can you can or we can talk after I just unfinished implementations to share to try to try and test the platform a bit more because we only used 66 depending fermentation on Linux on raspbian to test the platform so we could be good for us to have another pod implementation if you awesome any comments Domo so Taylor the physical layer that you\u0027re addressing is it are you yeah I didn\u0027t say yeah it\u0027s only IEEE 802 15 4 okay and we intend in near future to add a more more physical layer okay because you said something about some Linux implementation yeah we use the Linux in the pen tool on raspbian to perform the test and test a platform I see but then there\u0027s a 15-4 dongle on your Raspberry Pi GPIO recipe okay so 6lowpan on from the rs4 yeah okay perfect it\u0027s good thanks for attention I know maybe next time you start the process early so people are aware and make plans thank you is there any other issues or questions otherwise we are done for this time thank you very much see you next time you "
  }
]