[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "hello everyone hi tarek okay well my audio is not working I'm yes now it's working okay okay I can hear you thank you you will do you have slides two slides is PDF do you want me to email you uh maybe turret but uh yeah yeah uh what what I would like is to upload them so that we can share them and um right now no problem yeah thank you there there sent the PDF okay you sent it to me right just so I understand I sent it to Tarak and Loa oh okay I'll do that no problem I figured I'd send it to both of you and you could figure it out uh let me make sure I sent it to the right address for you I think I bought it yeah I sent it to to tsat.net gmail.com got it okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "let me upload it now thank you I figured they'd need to get uploaded at some point I don't care doing it first works fine for me and then you guys can drive the share works yeah the interim has a different page for uploading so not easy to find no problem so should I title it as multiple ISD discussion uh you you can call it whatever you want I called it m a and pushing because that's the focus of my particular two slides but and yes the point is the interaction when you push and when you're pushing labels with the presence of other of isds in the stack but that's it's a generic it's a generic case besides [Music] and if at all possible I would hope to depart at 11 o'clock because I have another call coming then and what time do you have now 10 o'clock 10 o'clock now okay yeah from what you guys said about the agenda it feels felt like an hour should be fine and if if we're really engaged in a useful discussion I can stay and just send my regrets to the other call but I prefer to be there because if something comes up I need to vote there [Music] okay would Mr unduke please identify"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "themselves yeah I was going to our school so we have a participants [Music] that start with thorough when Duke [Music] foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:07",
    "text": "foreign I have an issue with Anonymous participants yeah that's not what you may expect so I mean the tooling is supposed to require a data tracker login which means he made a data tracker login but that doesn't tell us anything about who he actually is and if you're looking at that profile it doesn't say anything yes that's zero or C 0 internet series buyer draft and nothing more yeah if he wants to speak up and identify himself that's fine otherwise we probably need to do something because otherwise this actually undermines certain important principles foreign do you know what we can do uh yes so I I'm looking for what we can do with meat Echo and uh as chairs I don't think we can um bump out any one we don't have that privilege um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "or or if we should to begin with um but maybe we can ask for meat Echo support on that you can send something to to action at ietf.org but it'll probably take a little while I thought there was a um meet that could help somewhere yeah maybe even slower [Music] let's see that needs to help um I think there's nothing from from the mid Echo menu right screens and video I can mute them I can yeah that's it so given that it's public the answer is probably Force mute and then he's effectively not participating I mean the session is being recorded folks can listen all the time but if he tries to speak up just force mute him makes sense for me that's effectively giving him no more participation than he would have by viewing the recording which is being which anybody may do and even anonymously yeah so we should probably get started although I don't see steward I was gonna say that we uh we have ten"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "attendees right now and many missing in action including Stuart um I know that you have time constraint and we should get started so let me just go through the administration slides and by then hopefully we'll have more people joined that's my plan let me know if anybody disagrees a question from indirectly fungi dong Jesus that he didn't receive a meeting announcement is that the problem for anyone else it was in the it was in the calendar that's that means it was properly I thought they sent it out yesterday I'm I don't think I remember seeing I don't know I may have forgotten I don't remember seeing an uh an email from you with the agenda other than the request for slides yeah uh I I didn't get their uh request so I assume that if it's not explicitly canceled that it's on so um so I think you didn't send out any an announcement of the agenda for today I did not get an announced uh okay so that something happened I checked my outbox and see what happened [Music] um no it's probably my mistake okay so what what should we do about that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "he just say that it's not if it's not canceled it's on and then we'll go ahead yeah okay and the the the one presenter who's missing certainly knew that you were planning to have a call today yeah just Carrick seems to have fallen offline it was also listed on the um mpls meetings on the dose tracker when I ended up having to go search for that oh I find it all the time he has the power out oh well that will make life a little awkward yep yeah and I tried to send a message to Stuart and I don't get the reply he says he will try to use hysterics as he will try to use his phone to log in that should work as long as you may need you to drive the sharing but so let's see I think this one is if anyone wondering what I'm doing yeah I'm just checking what happened to my mail I think I sent yesterday the I can't find it so I'm problemist one way or another okay um but anyhow I uploaded the new agenda and the slides so we should be ready to go if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "Terex comes back on he will probably run the rest of the meeting but I don't feel prepared to do the action items and see if I can presentation where do I share the ah I can share the agenda I mean okay good hang on it's there okay so as usual and we get started and I think when we get to post the the share slide we opt directly to uh what to hear what Greg and Tony has to say and then uh try to get Stuart back online and so next slide please yeah and that's the note well uh shouldn't be any surprises for anyone it should be familiar with the content of that slide so go ahead um uh the previous slides has um that one the administers administrative slide so if anyone anyone that can participate in taking notes please do so I think this is updated yes it is okay next slide and again again that is fairly simple we are doing one again the bashing we postponed the action items until Sarah gets back"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "we have a discussion on multiple RISD instances in the packet and if ye is ready to go we have a discussion on ISD limitation analysis uh G if you hear this can you send your slides to um I think Nick you can upload them and you can upload them you could write Nick if you're trying to talk you're muted yeah I guess yeah okay good and in fact I have one minute there's already one hello and everyone I am back but um on my Hotspot iPhone so uh um I might drop out uh cell I have power outage I'm not sure what's going on in the neighborhood but I can go through the action items that I have because I saw you okay okay uh we have three open Action items um uh I'm going to go through them and update them offline while uh I uh present them the first one is the investigation of any uh existing PS features uh so uh the owner on of this action item is the working group and uh we wanted proposals to solicit proposals on how to tackle that uh the presence of MN apsd with existing mpls features we didn't have any update last week so I'm hoping we have something this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "week or we can postpone for next week as well okay I guess no one has an update on this so the second uh second action item it's an open action item and we have a presentation will be done by Greg on that net intersection with m e and that's later for July the 6th and uh okay that will happen okay all right and the last open action item we have is a discussion on the agenda today uh the presence of multiple isds and specifically we're tracking any updates that are needed in the in the working group documents that we have uh so we have assigned this action item to the owners of the working group IDs or drafts but there will be a discussion on the need for such updates today so I won't update that now but maybe I'll wait for the discussion to happen but feel free to you know let me know if you want to track anything on that okay and I didn't see anyone come to the queue or raise their hand and that was the last action item and back to you uh though I think or Nick whoever was sharing that uh I was trying to do my best but we actually ready to get"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "we need the Chinese slides oh I need the um yeah I think anyone can share any one of us can share this slides I can share it again I think Nick is doing it it's coming up Nick Nick are you doing it I was gonna do it but I don't have the slides yet so if you have them okay Terry can you up here yeah I will do that in terms cheers sorry okay all those lights yeah I meant the only slides yeah okay one second one second so Nick Jones slides are also uploaded so yeah yeah yeah I mean this is it uh two slides I have are you sharing or am I yep that's you're sharing my slides thank you okay foreign so yeah well I think you can go okay so I've only got two slides here they the request from the chairs was quickly summarize what I'd sent to the list so that that's what I'm going to try to do the the situation that that caught my eye is that the current protocol draft doesn't deal with what has to happen when an MMA aware node is pushing labels onto a stack that has at least one hop by hop m a sub stack and presumably that's visible to it within the visible region otherwise we don't know what it'll do similarly the reason I say an m a aware node is we can't specify what an m a unaware node a legacy node whatever you want to call it does because it does whatever it already does"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "but an aware node needs to comply with the drafts and behave in a way that allows other things to comply with the drafts and for example that the draft says that a node needs to examine only one hop by hop and then a sub stack and only needs to look in its visible region four things unless it gets an indication it should do otherwise so that's what we're trying to address next slide so what does it have to do if a node is pushing labels onto the stack and it isn't itself adding a hop by hop in a sub stack then it has to check for the case of it's pushing the hop by hop sub stack outside of the visible label range if it does that in order to preserve visibility it has to copy the hop by hop m a sub stack into the stuff it's pushing on in such a way that it is visible fairly straightforward you got to do this it's actually implicit for example in entropy labels already that you got to do that the more interesting case is if it's pushing if the node that's pushing on labels is pushing on a hop by hop m a sub stack if it's doing that and there's all sees one coming in it has to copy the content not doesn't need to copy the m a indicator label but the content of that sub stack into its own sub stack so that the result is that a little later examining node only has to examine one hop by hop and then a sub stack there is a buried Corner case implicit in that what if there's some sort of weird conflict between the two actions I'm not even I don't think we need to say anything about that I think we just say it's it's the job of the node to sort it out anyway it thinks appropriate uh this is minimal Behavior if an act if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:04",
    "text": "a node wants to Define if an action wants to Define additional behaviors I thought the action can Define whatever it wants and we can debate whether that's the right thing or the wrong thing to do but independent of any specific actions this is a general requirement for pushing on label stacks and particularly pushing on label Stacks that include ahap by hop m a sub stack that's what I said to the list that's what I'm saying now questions are welcome yeah we have one question yep go ahead yeah I have a question like um so uh do you really need to copy the content or just indicating that uh that is hop underneath now that you have to copy the content because as far because the rules in the stacks in the I mean we could make up an action to try to work around this that says You must dive deeper into the stack but we're trying to keep the whole the the actions visible in the visible region of the stack so my proposal was you you could that you uh copy the content I guess you could we could Define an action that you have to add to your stack that says there's another hop by hop m a sub stack you must examine go look for it that would be an alternative way to solve the problem yeah exactly that's what I mean no like just indication it would also produce the right result but it could well result in a node having to go diving through the whole label stack which I thought we were trying to avoid but the thing is that uh uh jonak uh if you have multiple hobby hop options right so then we need to copy all the uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "eBay options no you only have to copy the next one this is the trick you only have to copy the one you can see because by definition it has a copy of any lower ones and usually they're all identical so there's only one you need to examine it's recursive the recursion automatically takes care of the other problems so no I mean like if you have a two different uh up codes how to help up codes encoded right so yeah they have to both be in that parent you have to copy the app codes from the second one into the first one and you but you don't have to go looking for a third one to copy because by definition the second one had the same content included the content it's a the higher ones are a superset of the lower ones so you only have to do it once and it just works if you're worried about label stack depth then the other alternative is to create a difficulty where you have to go diving looking for things and so I was trying to avoid that in particular in the very common case where the only thing being pushed on is one new action it seemed to make much more sense to copy the stuff up than to tell people you have to go looking past your visible data your visible depth but I will grant you putting defining an action that says go look for the next one would also solve the problem foreign Matthew dropped oh verification is there an assumption here maybe I missed it but there's an assumption here right you're doing like a hierarchical LSP so you've got a label start coming in with hot by help Mna in it and then you're pushing another label stack on top of that but some intermediate early art um and and that and then you're copying the the hot by help M A from that into the that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "um outer LSP are we assuming here sorry yeah and copy the the behavior here is to copy the stuff that came in into the stuff you pushed on because by assumption by the definition of a hot by hop LSP a hop I hop m a sub stack it's supposed to apply to all label all lsrs along the way so you can't mask it now if somebody wants to Define an action that says don't do that they can define an action but this is the default required Behavior so so I think we just need to be really careful on our definition of hot way hop here because um it's not an LSR for that the in that tunneling LSP is not an LSR for the for the LSP that you're carrying um it's only an avatar at the edges of it so if you think of an ldp over RSVP case or a bgplu over RSVP or over SRT type of case um it's only visible where you swap that in a label so I'm not sure that the hot by hot that the lsrs for that outer tunnel are actually hops for the inner LSP I guess that depends on the tunnel mode but the way I understood things that they were otherwise you'd get aware otherwise for example if you push nffr on and then something else pushes some other action on you would be masking the no further reroute yeah I mean I agree but there's well I think just think we have to think really carefully about this because it means that the ultimate head end of that inner LSP has to the Ingress early earlier has"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "to know the capability of every single um LSP uh sorry every single LSR in every Downstream domain that it may be tunneled over no it doesn't have to know the capabilities because if if an LSR ignore doesn't understand an action it ignores it so there's no problem with if there are lsrs that don't understand the action that the original head ends put on that does we don't get a break from that the question is if we assume it's tunnel mode one can one could argue and I think you are arguing that the outer that the original M A substance is not intended to apply to the inner tunnel that's not how I read what we were doing but because it clearly there are multiple cases where it is intended to apply and we don't have any way of knowing the difference between the various modes of these tunnels because if we're doing it this way if we're the kinds of things we're doing we don't have indications of pipe mode short pipe mode print tunnel mode so I had assumed we had to assume it applied you raise an interesting question Matthew should we assume it doesn't apply but I think that would break an awful lot of things I I mean I agree with you for you know for the no further fast food case we Bishop faster enable of course it makes sense but I think it's a kind of case-by-case basis as to whether or not it applies and obviously sorry sorry I should have let you finish I really hope it's not Case by case because that's a nightmare and for example given that this is all within one domain we're not mpls doesn't run into well mpls can be interdomain but that's a different case the general case is this is all in within one domain and for example if you're doing ioam"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "in an intra domain case if somebody pushes some labels in the middle of the domain for example to do a reroute you would want the ioam to be collecting data preferably by direct export from the rerouted path so that you get reported this is the actual pass it took not the one you think it took uh and so there seems to be a off it seems like the default case is you have to push yeah you have to copy it up and we have to treat it as as visible but you raise an interesting question and some further analysis is probably needed by somebody who knows all the pi the modes better than I do yeah I think I think to say it's not doesn't run into domain I mean I agree you wouldn't you know it's not that common to have say an end-to-end RSVP LSP across multiple domains but the the kind of principle of being able to chop things up into domains and have tunnels across those domains and then have BCP or ldp labels within those tunnels that's very commonly deployed so um yep that's why I corrected what I was saying that but but at least in the intra-dome internal case you would normally expect the hot by hap labels actions to apply to the the thing and we have no good way to to distinguish them I mean oh creating two different cases saying at a domain boundary you you don't copy in it at a internal boundary you do copy frightens me well it's just a local policy decision isn't it I think it's not a yeah but I hate I hate having local policy decisions that require different Behavior by routers because that complicates implementation and complicates diagnosis and you don't know what's going on so I really prefer getting a stable decision that is where alternative"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "behaviors are indicated by things in the actions themselves but that's just my opinion not but as currently written that the current draft doesn't talk about this case we the the clear thing is we have to describe what we want to have happen this is what I thought we had you do raise an interesting question about the modes of the tunnels okay thanks all right and Jimmy if you can hear me go ahead Jimmy if you can hear me go ahead I guess you can hear me you hear me now yeah yeah hi okay okay yeah oh yeah thanks for this analysis actualizing this is something missing in the current existing document I think this is maybe one option of the behaviors but I'm not sure this should be the default one actually uh for different um cases has just discussed with Matthew maybe different behaviors will be required like in this case uh Joe mentioned that the a copy of the content of this the next hub MMA should be copied but in some other cases maybe the the newly added information in the have a new hobby should be added to the next on all maybe every however Hub MMA exists in the label stack so I'm not sure whether we can choose one as a default or we should document all the basic behaviors in the document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "no okay that case I thought about behaviors I if if there is that's why I said if there's an action that wants to cause a different behavior that is specific to the action this is the default required behavior in the absence of an overriding action I do not want to have some nodes deciding they have to copy and some nodes deciding they should be inserting things into other m a sub Stacks that if you want that differentiation that is clearly triggered by some specific action and that action should Define that behavior not the default base Matthew's case is a different point his point is that independent of the actions there may be a situation where we need to do something different that requires more analysis I really hope it turns out not to be the case but I can't tell and I'm not going to try to I certainly am not going to assert that he's wrong because he raises a valid case but in terms of if you have some specific action that requires copying it down that the action that defines that not having a knob that you have to implement so that all routers have to implement that even if they don't implement the specific action that might require that I I we should be aiming to avoid creating multiple choices for how actions behave and how how lsrs behave because every time we introduce a choice we complicate the test the interoperability we complicate the testing and we complicate the implementation so we want to avoid choices that's the ietf preference that's distinct one of the historic distinctions between the ITF and the itut if there are cases where we must then we do have to allow choices and that's why I need more time to think about Matthew's case but having an action that causes you to copy things into other sub Stacks well I want to see the proposed action and then we can debate whether we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "agree that's what it should do but if it's needed it should be in the description of the action not having descriptions of multiple required different required behaviors where the operator has to configure it that's that's a recipe for failure foreign for me I agree that for each specific application where you should the also if you avoid the different options or beef behaviors but if we already observe the possibility of different use cases which require different behaviors uh maybe in the like the base document we should make people aware that this is all the required behaviors to make this uh mechanism work as a complete solution before we instead of when we introduce a new application and we need to update that this based argument right and we thought that I disagree until we have an action defined that requires a different Behavior there is no point in describing a different behavior and anybody who cares about that action will read that action and know they have to implement it we are not going to require implementers to implement behaviors for which there is no use case so it's until the action is defined that causes things to get copied into other sub stacks there's no need to describe it and when the action is defined that action describes it and then if we adopt that as a working group thing and then we publish it folks who implement it will do it but there is no expectation that every router is required to implement every action that was part of Matthew's point I I don't believe that that causes an interoperability problem for this but there is it's very clear that we expect things to not be implemented by every node"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "yeah I think last time Stuart mentioned in the case which is uh two indicator no for the first result and I asked him not not no further two numbers point he asked he said he described a case that is not the same as the currently described no further fast reroute I I called it stop reroute but you could call it whatever you want but it's a different Behavior we're going to need two different actions one for the current thing one for what stewards when Stewart writes up a description I'm not going to attempt to read his mind about why the draft he points to requires it when there's a write-up of an action that does the make sure nobody anywhere on the path does reroute even after the merge point he can write it up we can debate it if it gets defined it gets agreed by the working group it gets agreed by the working group doesn't change anything the base Behavior we have to have for interoperability has to be there okay all right thanks Jimmy we have Tony coming up next Tony you're up yeah there is a bit of a delay between uh hello sorry meet Echo is not letting me turn my mic on um so I would like to take an issue take issue with something Joel said about what happens when we're inserting an action into a label stack that has hop I hop um when we are inserting new actions it very much depends on what the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "semantics of the new action are if the semantics that we are inserting has a SK has a applicability throughout the length of the label stack then the node that is doing the insertion is going to have to amend all of the hop by hop headers throughout the label stack and in fact in the general case the point is you have to amend all the hop by hop headers that you can find that cover the length of the semantics that you want for that action can we agree on that no I so i i i two two disagreements first I think there's only two plus two meaningful bounds because and a note inserting things isn't going to know the significance of the various nodes in the middle of the label stack either it applies for the length until the thing it's inserted gets popped which is the normal case or it applies to the whole thing I don't want to create hypotheses for something else and what I said was if you want to Define an action that requires you to copy that action not the whole stack but that action into the other label stack and other sub Stacks in this in the label stack to find that in that action and that is separate from this required Behavior currently we have no defined actions which require that if we do Define some then we'll Define them I got lost in the this in that somewhere let's take a specific case suppose we have a label stack that has a slice identifier in it and somewhere along the path we decide we want to add entropy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:03",
    "text": "how is that not going to end up affecting the entire label stack because because the originator didn't think it needed entropy so only over the scope over which this pushed label the pushed labels are being defined does this node really have control and it's defining that it wants to add entropy over that scope that's fine it's privilege but I would not assume that by default it has to go find all the other label sub stacks and add entropy to them and first figure out if they already have entropy and uh see what what decide what it does with the entropy that it already has if it has it that that doesn't seem to match my understanding of what it means for a node to be pushing on a set of labels okay well we can how about the reverse case it has entropy and we're pushing on a uh a a um a slice identifier identifier only applies over the scope over which we're pushing it you can't there may not be an NRP a slice to be bound to beyond that it only knows the scope over which it's it's directing the traffic if it wants to direct the traffic over Inlet work resource partition over the part it has charge of because it pushed those labels on it does so but it was if if the packet was supposed to be directed to a a network resource partition over the whole domain then the entry should have done that it's not some other node shouldn't be trying to fix that particularly because again you'd get"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "into wait a minute what if it has you you end up with two nrps then NRP identifiers then that would be really confusing you can't get you can't change the one the other the the domain picked I will agree to disagree thank you yep and the list can discuss it okay thank you um I'm next so I'm going to go ahead um last time when we presented uh the uh the bypass uh you know adding an action we said we could do it uh in two ways one is adding a new ISD sub stack and the other was to amend the existing one [Music] ISD m a sub stack so the case the the latter case in your slide the the there is an existing hop by hop m e um so can we amend the existing one and I guess from what I'm hearing it's a discussion of what is the scope of the a new action being added if it's just between the plr and merge point or between the new Ingress and a new egress then we have choices there but if it's a global uh scope uh that's a we could amend the existing hop help so do we need not quite Carrick if I may if it's Global scope we have to amend all the sub stacks I cannot construct any situation in which it makes sense to amend just the top sub stack because then you don't remove it at the end of at the bound you don't remove the new information at the boundary of the then pushed labels but you remove it at the next point because it because it's not going"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "to get copied further down so it would be a really strange case to be modifying just one other one that we've been discussing the case of do you need to modify all of them we can have that discussed and that needs to be discussed more on the list I really don't like that but I can't I can't assert we don't we should we we should never do it we need to discuss that on the list but modifying just the top one produces just a mess so that's why I didn't include that as an option in this also having multiple different behaviors produces a mess so we want to keep it simple man so the implementation is doing it right okay thank you this doesn't apply to select or end to end that those are non-issues by the way they're defined okay I'm gonna have to leave probably lower I thought Stuart was before me but did you hear about all right it looks not on the list all right well that myself back on I I I'm not sure whether I am correct about um um uh maximum redundant trees requiring nfrr being sticky but the the fundamental reason for concern is that it no further reroute uh on in the presence of any failure is so fundamental to IP fast reroute um that it makes me incredibly nervous if it's not sticky and I need to go back and look at some work I mean hit you know maybe 15 years ago or so and remember what the specific cases were but we often got into trouble if we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "tried to repair a following a little repair to the extent where the general consensus of the IP fast reroute Community is that on a second failure you abandon all attempts at doing fast reroute I'd love to see a write-up which describes why so we can as a group make that decision yeah I'll have to go back and think what we did 20 years near nearly 20 years ago I suppose um why we came to that conclusion but it is absolutely fundamental to um to what we always do but it's not written down anywhere I can't I can't evaluate it I'll have to go back and look at some of the early work and see if we wrote it down but you'll keep finding the term uh abandon all hope uh my my memory I mean Stuart I was there my memory was that was the case of if you get a second failure while you're on the failure recovery path no it's um no no the problem is that it's just too complicated to work out what all the strategies are and which ones crash that um the general consensus was that we would never even attempt it but um I'll have to go and look at that really early work and find out why we decided to do that but abandon all hope was a standard um thing we did I remember the phrase I really need to see something in writing at this point because trying to say well 20 years ago we thought this was a case really hard to evaluate creating additional effort just on that when it's not in any of the rfcs I'll find I'll see if I can find out some uh remember if you can't find it if you can write up the case I'm perfectly willing to evaluate it now without saying well but that wasn't in the RFC if there's a clear description right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "all right anyway that's where I got to I'm not sure that it applies to the case I mentioned which was uh as I said if we if we agree if nffr needs this don't ever do that or if we Define two actions one nfrr over recovery path and one never refused to do frr anywhere further in the path those are specific actions which we can Define as requiring pushing it on even if the general Behavior says here's what you do because even if you're pushing that action into other things you still have the problem that other actions which don't need to be pushed into every individual thing require this base Behavior to preserve the uh semantics of hot by hap m a sub stacks right anyway I'll do some more work on it thank you okay so a couple of questions smaller questions I hope uh so we we have this you have described [Music] um consecutive copying of uh one network action up into the stack uh how much will this course a stack to grow and if it does is it the problem well it would it will cause the stock to grow less than if you take the entire stock you're adding and copy it into everything below it and you still have to somehow I mean Matthew the the uh that there wasn't some somebody suggested the other alternative of putting in single action into the new sub stack that says go look for the next one that is a viable"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "alternative and we should evaluate that which does reduce the label growth that's that's the one attraction of that alternative it does however require that we dive down more into this into the label stack but maybe that's necessary so so that that is that is an alternative I hadn't considered and worth and worth evaluating okay and that would reduce the label stack growth problem so in your mind do we have the labels that growth problem in this context um I believe we have the problem no matter what Behavior we dissolve the fact that you need to meet the requirement that you only have to examine one hop by hop label one hopper hop sub stack if we want to change the base Behavior to say You must examine all hop I hop sub stacks that would be different but uh I wasn't trying to change that base Behavior it's in the in the draft we've adopted as a working group so the second question is that you have described a couple of things that needs to be captured in the in our door in the m a document do you have an idea about which document will be affected it's the mnaisd document that Tony Lee is editing okay um nothing else not uh framework not requirements not use cases I I wasn't thinking I wasn't expecting I believe that this behavior is an implication of what is already in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "requirements and the framework it's just we didn't put it into the uh the ISD description document so we and as long as it gets into the ISD description document implementers will know they have to do it I'm not worried about updating the requirements document which if you just say in ISD ISD description what document are you talking about the 120 is editing what uh I don't remember I don't remember the draft names the one that actually describes how we do in stack data yes and that's the X document or I was told the editorship had been handed to Tony oh it started his tax document yeah okay but I believe Tony did the last editing pass on it um one correction I did an editing pass on it but I have handed editorship back oh because I was misinformed sorry okay the point is that's the draft that has to have this and and yes it's formerly known as graphic Jags okay then I'm but that has been in sync again yeah thank you and and that is a working group document now so yeah yeah it's it's draft ietf mpls m a header yeah that's the one that needs to be updated so Joel can I ask you to work with the or co-hosted on that document to make the updates not until we have agreement on the list on what the updates I know I know but they um yes I'm happy to work with the authors once"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "we have agreed on what has to be what it has to say okay thank you so I'm done Tony you're on yep Tony is still in the queue waiting for his button to to let him in I'm beginning to hate meat Echo guys um I I agree we are not yet to the point where we have consensus I have yet to hear anything that sounds like a concrete proposal for what the document should say differently well the first of these two bullets for example appears to be absolutely necessary and not subject to argument and so I would require and that needs to be said in the document we need to agree on what has to be said about the second of these two bullets and that needs to be discussed on the list which is why I prefer list discussion to uh interim discussions foreign okay well I disagree that this needs to be said because I think it's already there but that's okay I don't think it's there I think it's implied by the requirements but I don't think it actually says it if it says that I'm happy but I couldn't find it and I've got to run for another meeting Idol thank you okay thank you uh Joel and Tony on this uh next uh we want to switch to the discussion uh wait a minute I had asked Stuart for his opinion also Stuart do you have any anything more on on this yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:06",
    "text": "I think we need to go and look in detail at the text that Tanya said was there okay so you will be back um on the mailing list I think I think it depends on the case that much about which is whether you're bridging across something doesn't it okay okay so sorry let's go ahead the um you know what I need to switch uh off my uh hotspot so are you able to click on the the share slides button and you'll see the presentation from Jimmy um it should be there I think Nick can do it no let me I think that we need to refresh I have uploaded the slide and I'm trying to share but uh oh I yeah yeah I am working on that the problem is that the slides don't show up let me yeah yeah you need to drag them in yeah exactly okay I don't know which ones so I added all yeah me too yeah can you try now on it they should be there but I don't know which one yeah yeah now they show up okay okay to raise this one here I think it should work sure you should see something out here yeah we can see it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "okay so character you're going to drop off and come back or so I can share I mean I am okay do that that works yeah I know I should die begin with this slice yeah yeah okay okay so here is some analysis about the limitations with the MMA ISD and the purpose is not to say I think is not useful it's just to show the possible limitations in the current design and also with this limitations in mind we may consider in some scenarios PSD will be needed okay let's page this one first is the limitation in the size of the ISD we first uh firstly I'd like to remind people that the purpose of the ISD design is one of the purposes that to make the m a information close to the top of the label stack so that the Legacy devices can parse and process it and I actually it's not just for the luxury devices it can also help to make the some of them a information readily"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "accessible for all the network nodes along the path but this also indicates that the size of the ISD should be relatively small like the for example three RCS or even less this is a based on some of the data we collected from the existing devices capability otherwise you will have a bigger data for the m a it would be need to be encapsulated as PSD as putting it in IST would make the purpose of the easily accessible for the Legacy and for the other nodes not applicable so we need some information about the Legacy Hardware's capability in the last in the label stack Carson and also the processing so far we've got some information about the Galaxy in the typical number is a if you have more information more input about the data of the numbers you'll be very helpful among this label stack tabs we also need to consider some of the labels usually we need two or more labels for the tunnels and for the service Etc for Segment routing we would need more labels being used for the tunnels with this and it leaves the Maybe three to five rses for the total length of the ISD and if we consider the size of the ISD it will include the MMA label and followed by a format brse"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "this is the minimals format for the nurse and this leaves only one two three RSS for additional up codes and data so this is and he this is in addition we also need to consider you know hi Tony the slide this slide is incorrect as you can see the feet the length of the nasl ow the length of the ISD is not limited to three to five lses okay you've got four bits you could stick this is based on the second bullet if we can that doesn't make it a limitation because readable to the Legacy devices that doesn't make it a limitation because it's typical but if you have other numbers about the logs in Hardware's capability it can also give some input on this I'm not saying the the limitation based on the size of the of the NASA field distributed through the igp that's not a limitation on ISD that's a limitation on Legacy Hardware thank you yeah but if we want to make the ISD applicable to the hot Legacy Hardware this is a limitation we need to consider either so that doesn't help yeah I mean that is I'm I didn't say this is not a limitation to the PSD I'm just saying if we want to make ISD to meet one of the purpose to which is to make the Legacy devices can pass it from label stack this is something we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "need to consider for the PSD it may uh we can have another analysis maybe if needed this is the the analysis about the isd's limitation if we consider the luxury devices as a optional as a possible Target node or the node which need to read this information from the devil stack yeah maybe we can continue and when we finish we can have a further discussion about every point in this I sorry I didn't finish the last that's why in the previous page yeah the last one is uh we also need to consider if we need to encapsulate multiple isd's into the label stack let me have some requirements on the number of RCs the increase node is capable to impose so this is another thing we need to consider which can bring some limitation to the size of the ISD can be supported by the Ingress node okay next page please the second aspect about the limitation is in the encoding as we can see in this picture actually we have the different op codes with different formats and different RC formats are defined in this document so far the action flags and the data are carried in separate up codes we have defined Optical 3 for Flex with action ancillary data when it has been removed from the document due to some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "previous discussion then for the applications which need both the flag and data the encoding will be not quite efficient or you need to separate up codes for the flag and for the data respectively and if we consider the format of a specific Optical it will be constrained by the positions of the aspit and also the other fields defined in the sum of this RCR formats and with this we will need to consider some design with a data field of the up code for for example is the variable then State allowed for a one specific opcode how do we need to introduce multiple up codes for one application when there needs some one there need the different lens and doing can we uh filter that tells you how long the ancillary data is yeah this is one option but I think there will be some it's what we agreed to uh limitations we introduced for for one specific up code can we introduce a different data lens or is it like a fixed an opcode can use the Nal field to describe how much ancillary data is attached what it wants to do is it's up to the definition of the op code oh okay so the second is the question is can we support tlv formats in One op code or we just need our we only supported"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:03",
    "text": "like a fixed format you can do whatever you want um one second Tony I think that yeah I mean the Jimmy's trying to ask questions on the proposal so I I appreciate Tony coming in and answering the questions but we have Greg also on the Queue I want to give him a chance to pick his raising step and and do you want uh and you know basically asking questions uh at any time uh Jimmy or [Music] I I guess you're asking questions so yeah we can yeah it's valuable that uh yeah yeah we can discuss on every page it'd be yeah okay uh I I agree with Tony and uh I'm not really shared their uh idea that uh ISD m a must be designed uh to work on any uh existing platform so uh it should be safe to deploy ISD M A on existing platform uh so we need to have uh possibly extension or use extensions that already exist in igp and vgp that were introduced for similar situation with the entropy label but I think that it's up to uh developers uh to decide what options in ISD M A they want to support and on what platform so uh I think that the question the main question that raised or concern expressed uh is not really there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "so it's not technical it's uh you know business decision what you support um so thank you you're talking about the first first page the size right yeah I I believe that the whole motivation of this saying that ISD m a must be uh applicable on all existing platforms deployed uh regardless of their physical computational capabilities um is not technical this is not a technical concern so it's a business decision and I apologize for my dog barking on me not only really but working okay so um I understand that uh we have to leave for ISD with certain inconveniences as you pointed out that take uh make this data space somewhat awkward but again uh if you look at for example a proposal on supporting IEM decks as instant data m a uh it might be not pretty but it will work so again yeah I I I I I I think I think that we need to discuss the technical issues not the things that we like or don't like okay thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:02",
    "text": "discuss the technical issues but we also need to consider the reality of the network if we want to make this mechanism really uh applicable and really can be deployed in the Brownfield Network we also need to consider the imitational capability of the existing Hardware is something we I think we have been considered in the in the past right I agree with you uh that we might for example we have a a really huge ISD or maybe some delay here okay uh so there is all joke medical joke uh the guy comes to the doctor and tells him yes I think I'm talking uh guide comes to the doctor and says Doctor uh I pressed this uh every everything hurts doctor looks at him says you have a broken finger okay so uh if a network is a limited capacity then it should not use ISD m a and uh vendors and implementers must understand their implication of introducing ISD M A in their existing Networks so and work with operators on how to overcome that that's my opinion thank you okay Jimmy we we don't have anyone else in the queue so you can continue I guess foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:09",
    "text": "hello anyone can hear me I can hear you yes oh okay great so let's do this is is this the last slide uh Nick for Jimmy or they are like at least three or four more slides Hunter Rick can you hear me yeah yeah okay okay sorry I I think I reconnected um so this is about the format the second bullet is uh do we allow the okay Jerry was about to ask whether tlv's format is supported in the opcode and the answer is that's completely up to the opcode the action gets to Define what its ancillary data is like and it may be TLD formatted it could be an MIT Tico macro it could be a list s expression we really don't care you've got 30 bits of opaque data do whatever you like have fun hi can you hear me again uh um yeah my point about this um okay the network is really bad here feel free to manage I I was going to say that Tony had tried to answer your question but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "um I'll just go on go on silent now okay okay um the point is if we introduce the tlv format for the data field of the code we need to deal with the like the different IRS RAC formats and also the S bit in the which is in the middle of the data field and with the tlv we will it will introduce some difficulty if you did for different combination of the tlvs you will need to put the data at different position and then you also need to consider the not to conflict with the aspect right this is something we need to consider in addition to the previous uh in other data packet or the data plane extensions this is some additional considerations are needed and the third bullet is a if we want to introduce some application data which is already have a existing format defined and independent from the transport data plane like for mprs and for the IPv6 they want the consistent data format can we accommodate this into the a specific up code in the ISD because of this like the um the position of the aspect and other fields introduced in the different areas formats so this is something uh I think it would be a little bit difficult for the M A ISD encoding"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:11",
    "text": "could you say a bit more about that I thought I heard you say you were trying to put an IPv6 header inside of ISD yes no no I'm saying we have a specific application for if we want to use the iom we have iom data format already defined as a independent encapsulation uh which is can be which was designed to be uh applicable to different data transport like all the network data plane like the IPv6 or mprs if we want to be consistent with that data format that means we need to accommodate the existing data into the ISD but there will be some difficulty when we need to consider the aspit and other Flags or the fields is already defined in the RSE yeah uh if I may um yes but I again look at it as nice to have and not something that must to have and that's the result of uh ippm working group defining its format without consideration of data plane issues on another hand we have mechanisms in IP that and mpls doesn't use an IP encoding one of the examples is uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "icmp think so NFLs decided to implement this functionality differently and actually uh there are some things that were developed some functions that were developed for MLS LSP ping and they don't exist in iip IPv6 for example right so although it might be beneficial to have commonality of encoding it's not mandatory so again I don't see it being a hard requirement saying that in ntls we must use whatever encoding being done for itv6 it's different data plane it has differences it has different constraints and uh we must make the best out of what we have yeah that is uh that means additional effort is needed because uh that the application may not be designed for IPv6 it is designed for a unified as a unified application for different things right okay are you talking about specific case or are you talking about some abstract unknown yet application foreign and maybe that night will be something we can consider as the applications we uh which is uh being worked on in a specific working group and they may want to okay have a unified encapsulation for different data playing okay for that net can we uh put it on the back burner and talk about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "it next week because I'll be presenting that net and uh it's uh view because we are discussing in the devnet with chairs okay okay and this is uh not not only about the death net and iom I just give use them as examples like different working groups are working on different maybe data playing mechanisms and they they're not aware of the difference between a data IPv6 MPS or ipv V4 even so if we want to reuse the existing work or we want to introduce or design a specific data plane for mprs that is something we need to consider [Music] okay I think then we come to the processing limitations this is a about something we discussed maybe in the previous one or two weeks but whether we can change them some of data in the MMA ISD actually I think the draft already mentioned that to avoid impact to the traffic flow forwarding to the balancing the first 20 base at the previous label field of every LC in the ISD must not be changed so let's leave a very small room for the writable data in the different RC formats like for the LC form might be all the data are not allowed to be changed for the former C there are seven bits left and for format D in there's 11 bits"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "processing limitation is something we discussed last if we want to modify the LCS which are not at the top of the label stack let's require a new Behavior to the MPS implementation we need to investigate the availability and the performance of the Hardwares FR is just one typical example here but I think we already have some different opinions on whether it whether it requires to change the other the next however Hub a label ISD or just need to change the the topmost one and if in case we need to change the next and all the ISD is in the label stack when and when there are multiple copies of the isds if a node is only able to reach some of these IDs that will be out of sync in the replicated ISD data and this may be not expected result of the package forwarding okay I think this has been discussed uh recently and just here it just the documents as a one possible limitation in the ISD processing and for some of the use cases and this may not be required but as a solution we need to consider these limitations okay next page so here are some conclusions so first we think I still use so devices to support some of the MLA functionalities especially it is more friendly to some Luxy devices as we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "discussed before because it's easy to reach in the package and we also need to acknowledge or understand the limitations with mnaisd which may impact some of the applicability applications with ISD and some of the in some use cases they may be not that applicable with ice team but maybe PS3 is small suitable for this kind of applications like in the limitations of the data or the limit in the limitation of the data data size of the encoding or the processing we hope this limitations can be understood by the amperes working group participants and the documented in the suitable document in the working group and for some of the applications which required to break these limitations like the data size or encoding or processing PSD will be needed I for the iom cases in some modes the data size and encoding would require to maybe to exit the limitation with the ISD and the death net is a similar case no further fast reroute requires some specific data processing which brings some difficulty to the ISD processing okay next page okay so it says to answer the questions of the working group chairs for the first one I think the iom and that had two possible use cases which would need a PSD due to the data side limitation and in this uh in this presentation we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:03",
    "text": "didn't talk about the complexity of the PSD or the ISD he said just about the capability and the limitations with the ISD design and for the as data and stack tabs increase What iom would increase the data stack tabs as a past packages travel along the path and for the first fourth question is we think that for some of the limitations with the ISD psod would be a needy solution regarding the compatibility issue with the PSD previously we discussed the possible order between the PSD and other post stack data I post that information uh uh I guess we have reached some consensus that the PSD will be the immediately follow following the bottom label and other information will be followed postdoc data so that will be a resolution to this compatibility issue okay I think that would be all of my the slides thank you Greg Greg you're all right I I think that I understand their experience so the frustration Tony has because yeah switching the microphone it very uh lag time left okay so again I would interaction uh with their death net"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "because I don't find their uh in this presentation any technical uh cases that indicate that depnet would benefit from PhD and I can say that from our analysis that we're doing in a definite group uh it's quite opposite actually uh PSD is uh not a good case for that net uh secondly on amount of data yes uh in case of incident before yeah it defines the mode that adds uh operational State and the information in the packet some environments might decide to use it but I think that it would be uh unwise to do it in npls network and definitely it's absolutely uh prohibitive behavior in death net where the resources for the data traffic must be planned ahead so I think that a direct expert is a reasonable option for npls data plane to use uh to get this on-paf information and that can be done in ISD we already have a proposal for that um so with everything else I don't see a lot of uh concerns thank you so I'd like to point out that the Legacy implementations that have difficulty dealing with arbitrary arbitrarily large ISD are going to have even more issues dealing with PSD a typical Legacy implementation is only going to be able to see some way into the top of the label step say 64 bytes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "and if it can only see 64 bytes of label stack there's no way it's going to also be able to see PSD so PSD is not a solution thank you yeah with psds I think the benefit is some the luxury devices does not need to be aware of this PSD data and right and with the ISD there's a possibilities it need to understand uh I mean label and it won't try to pass the ISD but this exceed the capability of the hardware and that is something we don't want to see in the in the in the network well if the Legacy nodes don't process it then your action didn't get processed by Hub that would seem to be a semantic problem if you're doing ioam and only the non-legacy nodes process it are you going to get useful data I'll take that as a negative way you consider some application yeah if we consider what uh application is cannot be parsed by Lux in order with either sdl PSD that I'm not sure whether this is a still we want to use ISD to carry this information or not so this is a limitation with ISD I'm not saying the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "PHD is a solution to the Legacy device just to say that if we want to lock the device to pass ISD we need to consider the limitations I agree ISD is limited Legacy devices are limited but PSD doesn't help PSD is not to solve the Legacy device capability issue right correct which was the thesis the Galaxy Device cannot support uh yeah that that means if we consider the luxury device is not our Target we can revisit whether it's a deserve to be put in the label stack or it is a more applicable to as a PSD yes we've had many times like something we can Network for 20 years and you know they're not going anywhere and if we don't support them you've got no chance of deploying Ma I'm not saying about the I don't know I'm talking about a specific application if the due to the limitation of the kit Hardware in the Luxy node it cannot be passed in either as the PSD whether we still want to put it in the ISD or we just with some of the limitations as we discussed in the slides always has them use a more extensible mechanism we can put kind of applications we put actions in ISD and live with limitations or you can put it in PSD and it won't operate with Legacy devices at all I I have a similar question to what Tony"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:01",
    "text": "is trying to highlight if I cannot if if there is a concern with is you know ISD beam present in the stack and the stock growing um then how is this concern appeased by putting it in the PSD and assuming I can read you know I can read after the stack so in both cases you will have to process and read the the data wherever you place it so if a node can I mean if a Transit node cannot uh process a a huge stack it cannot also processary device have you yeah okay okay it's just yeah maybe you can yeah I'm not sure about those devices are you still talking I cannot hear you oh okay so there are I I wasn't following the specific device Behavior so I'll have to go back and and uh and read through your slide no problem thanks yeah maybe uh I can quickly answer your question I mean that if we we know that for a specific application the Luxe nodes cannot parse it or cannot process it but regardless whether it is in ISD or PSD so this application will only be understood and processed by the um new hardware right then we need to consider water it is beneficial to put it in ISD or whatever it is uh better to put it in the PSD so we don't need to consider the support for the Legacy Hardware as a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "as part of our consideration because no matter which place it is put in the packet the Legacy Hardware cannot process it to this for this kind of applications we need to consider and it's sorry approach will be more suitable interrupting apologize is it is it Legacy devices that you're seeing or Lex device maybe I can write down in the notes about it's not clear uh I think you're saying Legacy devices that's what I'm asking is it Legacy devices that you're talking about I mean I'm talking about the application which cannot be supported by Legacy device no matter it's carried in ISD or PSD for this kind of application when we consider the suitable place for this data we don't need to consider whether it is a easily accessible to the Legacy devices right because it cannot pass it or they cannot process it this is something I want to point it out okay thank you and if we want really want some application to be supported by the Legacy device we need to consider their limitations right okay I have a question because you said so no if it's a legacy device then how do you assume it supports m a it's a legacy device it means it doesn't support M A or it supports m a or it may support them it's support"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "enemy but he may not it may support MMA but it has some limitations right is confusing definition of legacy devices confusing to me okay you mean Hardware device is that what you're saying yeah yeah yeah okay I I still have the same point I mean if it's a limited Hardware then how is it helping putting the the metadata after the stack um if it is limited Hardware then it will not be able to process the data after it's actually yeah it it is not able to process it no matter it is in ISD or PSD in this case we need to consider what is the benefit I'll put it in ISD and what is the benefit of putting in PSD because we don't is the target notice will not be the Legacy Hardware nodes right for this kind of applications we need to consider which which place is more suitable not just too easier to be accessed in the package right I see okay thank you lower your uh yeah I'm kind of I may be a little bit confused but I think what I hear uh he's saying is that if you have a limited Hardware and you enable M A on it then there are cases that you probably not will be able to process and it may will be made worse if you actually increase the label stack out of what the specific device has a say maximum label"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:05",
    "text": "depth so trying to find out kind of a reasonable size that we can increase the label stack before we actually put it in put the data in the PSD fully knowing that it will not be processed anyway but it will not disrupt other operations on the label stack for the Legacy devices I think D is somewhere in that that context right all right okay I don't I don't consider that as a limitation of ISD then right or is it a limitation of ISD in this case for legacy devices because the title of your presentation is limitations to ISD it's limitations of the device and the way I can hear it foreign okay uh loan Nick and I think we are close to the end of our meeting I'm not sure if Jimmy still has anything else they had um are you able to hear me anyone oh yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:02",
    "text": "yeah go ahead please uh so if we are closing the meeting I would like the um the shares including Stuart to stay so we can coordinate a little bit before we we shut the meeting um I will on this point Loa I think we don't want to be recording the discussions it would disappear on us so we have to go to a separate meeting yeah yeah it will come in a minute I'm scheduling it now okay good that was what I was going to ask about send it out I will I will think [Applause] okay I just sent it out I will start it now so we can jump on the WebEx uh um it shouldn't have should have started um so please join me there and thanks everyone who is still on the call and you know we'll see you next time uh in a many interim meetings that we have regular ones thank you okay thank you bye foreign"
  }
]
