[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:00",
    "text": "yeah we're right on the time and we're just sorting out uh set up issues here um so just one more minute and we'll get started thanks for your patience"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:42",
    "text": "all right i'm gonna go ahead and start talking while greg is getting ready to share the slides to give a little bit of background we have a education mentoring and outreach directorate some of you are familiar with it and some of you are are new this directorate uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "has a fairly wide remit at the moment um and so we wanted to have a open meeting uh it was going to be a side meeting and then we wanted to allow remote participation so we made it in this particular context so hopefully everybody can figure out where the meeting is i do know there's an issue with which button you need to push on data tracker but it is on data tracker and it is available via meet echo and anybody that doesn't know that doesn't know because they're not on me echo now but i sent it out to a couple people that asked me individually um so i am karen o'donoghue and this is greg wood uh can we just do a real quick around the table and then remote to see who and just introduce yourself quickly and don't forget to turn on the microphone my name is michelle cotton and i'm with the ams the secretariat hello my name is libra glisha i'm with the iatf administration hi it's pete resnick first time sitter enterer he's on the ombuds team oh there's that too rich sols i work with karen on the working group chair stuff and long time emoji person hello hi i'm gentali from apple i'm new here hi i'm guy john from apple hi i'm daphne elizabeth from nsa hi i'm andrew kaplan from 419 consulting oh sorry remote people robert do you want to introduce yourself"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "i don't know how to do ordering but yeah that's i'm robert sparks ietf llc in tools team uh hi everyone this is drove uh drove today all right thank you um no success no success so um at this point i'm going to share yeah oh we have oh nick we have one more person added hi nick yeah sorry i'm late uh hi all nick doty center for democracy technology good to see you sort of all right so um we're going to use you need to unshare uh i also alice russo's here from the rfc production center hi alice let's see which one do i want that's the right one sorry we're um we're experiencing a unique intersection of um emo durr and having multiple sessions during the week and not quite being a full working group i think and me using old software well no so now the issue we have is uh i haven't properly set up my browser on that laptop but i know it's set up correctly on this laptop so we are on top of things yeah but just one second and i'll start doing the slides you want to talk a little bit about the plan before i get the slides up yeah sure um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "uh i'm happy to talk through that well first of all i think we need to say that this session is being recorded and the note well applies so it's super important if you haven't had a chance to read it recently i like to read at least three times a year just to remind myself uh and things like the uh anti-harassment policy and privacy policy uh that apply to all itf contributions of which this is one including uh and also includes email lists um contributions and in the chat and so forth so uh yeah take take a moment to read that if you haven't lately um it's good stuff um yeah so uh with that we can talk a little bit about um the overall plan and just uh how we got to here the um this group and others have uh worked to sort of create an outline of the things that we're hoping to get done in this in this year and it was the first time i think that we put together a shared vision like that so it took a little while to get together but now we have one and i know work has already begun on some components of that and as soon as karen shares we'll be able to share it but but you can you can also find it if you're logged into um data tracker and or if you can see the agenda you can download the slides yourself and take a look or if you go to the emo door data tracker plan you can get a you get a link to the wiki and there'll be information about the plan there so today we're hoping to just provide a quick update on it get some on the plan various aspects of it and uh maybe get some further ideas um or thoughts about how things are going and karen is like three clicks away from sharing the document any questions so far i'm just gonna pause"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "pete did i say the right things about no well okay and we we have slides [Laughter] pretty exciting oh yeah the other thing where it covers like included in the what's going on so far is the stuff that's gone on this week so far and and will go on so we've done this yep and now we're here yeah um so as a quick reminder i wanted to go over the emo door plan but greg has already pretty much done that since we're 10 minutes in i think we might move on that i did want to um just in highlighting this if you look at the plan itself maria is working with a group of people that are doing some quick start grind guide activities and so that uh activity is partially underway uh greg is doing a number of the things that are currently listed under informational materials so if you're interested in that you can speak to him about that as rich already mentioned rich salsa and i do the working group chairs forum we are interested in any ideas for topics that should be held in there and we're also interested in any people that are willing to help work and organize that um online training um this is some training that is being produced and greg is working on that and i have to admit greg i was working on getting my thing up and i don't know if you spoke about it in any details i did not yet excellent uh and then um then there's the ietf newcomers program and we're going to talk a little bit about what we did here and what we're planning for the future um and michelle and i are working on that uh and then we have uh deep dives tutorials technical presentations and right now with the exception of the work by the iesg to produce some deep dives our tutorial work is uh paused at the moment so that's also something if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "you're interested in pursuing that would be great um so at this point in the agenda um update on chairs training greg can i ask a quick question first absolutely so and maybe you want to answer this as you go through other stuff but obviously greg is you know a paid uh llc employee how much of this stuff is staff supported stuff with volunteer help versus volunteers have to just kind of take this on blah blah blah blah blah some of that is called out in the plan i mean if you see greg or ams staff listed there then obviously that is supported uh if you see it being led by uh or you know worked on by us chances are it has it's not right but i think part of what we're looking for uh is help in identifying where it would be best to put those resources okay so could you be careful because the microphone sorry uh would you like to speak robert asking if you could be careful to be close to the microphone you were speaking yes we will turn into the into the mic yes we'll we'll do a better job thank you robert um so it really varies but um i think if there are if there are good ideas that seem implementable and we can scope the resourcing then there is some resourcing available but um i think for 2022 we've you know you'll see the plan and i think what we're for additional stuff we probably ought to think about what we might want to do in 2023 and how we should get that resource and part of the reason i even asked the question which might apply to other folks is there's stuff that i would be willing to help but not have others sort of depend on my help existing at all times"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "um and if it's a purely volunteer thing if i'm not doing the work someone else is getting screwed whereas if i'm not doing the work and there's staff involved at least someone's getting paid which is better right um i i really see a lot of improvement i think we're we're doing a better job of utilizing uh paid resources to help us get the kinds of things done that we want to do and we and and greg's going to talk about the working group chairs training stuff and and that's a really good example of that in my mind can i just add one absolutely so one of the things that this first round of planning um actually was about was figuring out given a limited set of resources where did folks want to apply those and where was their energy to get things done when there weren't resources available so that's exactly the question that we tried to get an approximate answer to during the couple of months that we were going through the planning and i'm sure we'll do a better job of it next year um so with that actually greg uh now we're ready for the update on chairs training uh yeah fantastic so as as uh we just noted um this is an area where um uh it was pretty clear that outside energy and expertise was needed um to accomplish what was hoped being hoped to be accomplished and we also had the experience of our first run at this um last year uh so um yeah so just a quick update we're we've started uh conversations with the same uh folks that developed and delivered the training last year there's um a group of uh community members that are most of them are chairs or uh past chairs or and especially there are a few new chairs that are involved um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "to provide guidance to the subject matter expertise to the to the development and delivery of the training and um so that we just had our kickoff call on that uh last week and um we're on track to follow basically the same schedule that we did uh last year per plan uh with some um slight changes so uh one of the things that we really learned last year is that people found the interaction among chairs that the sessions offered to be really really valuable so instead of trying to cover all this material we're focusing on the material that was most highly rated and to have a longer interactive session so tweak the curriculum if you will to really focus on interactivity um uh for i think we have four it's either four or six i need to go back and look um multi-hour like two hour longer session so people the ideas that people get together have a chance to interact and then build relationships that will or strengthen relationships that will help them continue on even after the the training opportunity and then the other mode is a shorter delivery of more informational uh uh type of content where people uh have said they need to you know they'd like to know how get some more information about how to do a particular thing better uh and so those would be shorter you know like online learning modules but hopefully um uh the idea is to tailor them in a way that make them uh relevant and interesting enough so that people actually want to do them it's not a like a compliance training video that you have to go through and uh uh grudgingly do um they're they're interesting so that's that's where we are we just kicked off we're on schedule expect to deliver october november"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "and uh along the way we'll have a same kind of evaluation and dashboarding so we know what's working what's not working so we can build on that for any future training decided to do sorry that was longer than i thought any questions yeah yeah yeah you uh so mary asks if it's the same company and the short answer is yes any other any other questions any remote questions nope okay great um so the next thing is and this is what we've already covered is the plan is newcomers and i divided this into newcomers at ietf just to give you some idea of what we're what we did at this ietf meeting and then i'm going to talk a little bit about what our next steps are for the various newcomer activities um the first thing and sort of related to what what you were mentioning about uh staffing we we've had uh increasing amounts of secretariat support over the last couple times and michelle has joined the team and we also have jenny who's been working with us on the newcomer stuff and we have a series of meetings in advance to review what we've done in the past decide what we're going to do this time and then execute them and send out all the emails and those kinds of things so the activities that we have are the newcomers overview and i just lumped these all together because they're related it what was originally the newcomers tutorial has evolved into a series of videos that are online a couple of q a sessions that we've been doing in advance and then the in-person tutorial that we provided on sunday this time we updated the in-person tutorial but we did not get the videos"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "updated so we have some work to do there but that's the uh tutorial information on getting started in the ietf the next set of activities are networking activities which are really about getting people to meet each other and talk to each other we had a quick connections on sunday evening that was quite successful and we have the monday night dinner that the secretariat organizes was also quite successful last night and we are going for one virtual coffee break this time i believe it was earlier today and i didn't actually make it so um in gather so we're still trying to figure out when we were all virtual we we pretty we had a better idea of how to handle remote attendees on the social or hallway track part but we're really struggling with good ideas on what to do uh to incorporate newcomer activities for virtual attendees so i think that is a tough one um the guides program team ran a guides program this time i last i heard there was 11 or 11 matches for that um and that is the uh you know program where you can sign up in advance and get matched with somebody and then the final thing we will have will be some feedback sessions there'll be one on site on thursday and then we're going to have a remote one in a week or two which is for any of the newcomers but it also gives a better opportunity for the remote remote folks to participate um in addition to this set of activities there is a iet there's a webpage the newcomers page that gets updated with all of the activities and there's a series of emails that go out and that's all done by the secretariat"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "so that was basically our program for this ietf so next steps for newcomers and oh on go ahead in the queue you are yes andrew campbell speaking i i just curious uh did you know what the numbers of newcomers were uh for this session we know what they are i don't know michelle you want to go through the numbers a particular session or for the overall meeting sorry sorry for for the meeting just rough ideas alexa is checking for those of you online so uh question for karen and michelle does it would it be okay to share the document that you wrote about the newcomers activities in the chat just because so people can see i mean we meet every two weeks for like 10 weeks before which means go home rest for a month and then we start planning for the next one just so people can see it and see the the nice table i don't know if there's any objections to sharing that i i uh i was going to just put a uh i don't know if i don't think there's anything sir are we ready to share this or i don't think there's any secret well there's nothing secret in here but there might you know there might be like you know misspellings or well yeah in that document there are a series of like tasks that have to be done as far as when emails go out reminders that go out so it's a lot of um [Music] basically check marks for the secretariat staff to make sure that we don't forget to do particular things and then there is a very a small calendar of the newcomer activities um what is remote and what is on site"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "and then we do have some um participation numbers in a table that we're going to track more closely uh from now on for all the different newcomer um activities uh so hopefully we'll have some uh concrete data from now going forward to be able to compare and see how we're doing um that's what's in that document that rich is referring to so this is robert maybe when something like that is shareable um you know i suggest sending it to the the team luster program list um when you're thinking about what to do in sessions like this one remember that the recording is going to be available on youtube and choose what content you share appropriately okay robert i could barely hear you did i understand that you think it is appropriate to share or not um to be careful with it i'm surprised that you're having trouble hearing me is this better you fade in and then get reasonably loud and then fade out yeah must be doing something underneath me at this point then because i'm right up against my microphone i will type what i said into the stream you can read it there yeah it's mostly a volume problem by the way robert yeah but i just regarding one of the data points that we talked about even earlier was we wanted to understand a little bit better about newcomers behavior especially for virtual ones that are they here only for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "a single session are they attending multiple itf meetings that could also help us to like you know trigger how to bring them into the itf community a little bit better because that's the feedback somehow i got with the newcomers that i was dealing with that they were attending only a single session and i was slowly trying to say that get involved in more activities but that's just like you know one or two cases that i am aware of i wanted to know what's happening otherwise uh with a lot of people because i was tracking number of people who were joining from my region and they really did shoot up a virtual ones from india and i wanted to retain that and one thing that came up was that people were like you know finding it hard to attend multiple groups in a remote setting and i wanted to know like more concrete numbers on that from other regions and otherwise if that information could be made available i think it would be a pretty good uh info for this group as well thank you yeah i do remember we had some of those conversations and i think um we're looking at how to get better data um so thank you pete yeah i was just wondering with regard to like the coffee breaks and the dinner and such what is the aim to get sort of the newcomers in their own community to be able to have buddies among the newcomers to get them to meet leadership uh what's i was the purpose to me the purpose is for them to meet um to meet each other and to meet a few friendly faces at the ietf one of the challenges with asking the leadership to do too many things during ietf week is the leadership is very busy so this is um you know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "you know a few like i know rich and i have done a number of these coffee breaks virtually and and you know just whoever shows and actually when they've been on the schedule especially virtually face to face it's been harder but virtually like sometimes some of the leadership will show up for that but um and if i could have my two cents i think that the um the quick connections is is great to connect newcomers to working group chairs and people that know something about the itf at the very beginning of the week and the intent of the monday night newcomers dinner it was newcomers only really yeah so it's really about bonding like a freshman class of itfurs and getting them to form some bonds and then i think that the coffee breaks are sort of like you've been here for a couple days you have a quick question is there something that we can help you with so those the different roles that i see those things playing okay thank you um so i did um okay so we have robert was saying that remember the session will be available later choose what you display appropriately um so i don't think there's anything inappropriate in that document it's just we did it as an internal document as a help to ourselves and not necessarily something that we planned to post on a website but it does i have provided the link if you want to go in and take a quick look especially if you're interested in helping because you know you'll have some idea of what what you're getting yourself into um so uh the next steps like i said we're cleaning up and getting even more organized i think we've we continue to learn that the more that we can get done in advance about you know understanding what goes on the web page what goes in the emails that need to go out when the emails need to go out and the more that we can have that pre-stage which is which is really what michelle and jenny uh have been doing uh has is really helpful so for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "ietf 115 there's a couple things i wanted to highlight we will have a review of 114 uh when we start our meetings up and and in that we look at what do we think worked well uh what wasn't really that effective are there any new ideas that we want to try so now is a really good time if anybody has any new ideas to uh you know drop them on the mailing list or something like that and we'll come up with the plan for 115. um the you know the idea here is is that it it's an evolving program so what it is this year is not what it's going to be next year i don't see us throwing everything out and starting from scratch i see us evolving it and making improvements as we go we do know that we need to work on uh the survey and there's already some drafting work been done on that in our last series of meetings we want to look at what are our success measures and how do we measure that success uh one of the interesting things we've been discussing a little bit about is that you know is success somebody coming and participating in newcomer programs or is success somebody coming to the ietf and being successful in the work that they want to do so um you know a good number of newcomers come to the ietf and they have support from their institution and they have support from colleagues that they already know and they may not need to participate in newcomer programs whereas other people come to the ietf and they're not at all familiar and they they really like that support and so i think we have to be really careful with the metrics that we define and i think we've struggled with that for a while so um so we still have that set of activities um we are looking at extending the ietf guides program we're planning to have a brainstorm on that in the near future we're going to have it on when are we having it is it the 15th do you remember the date um we're gonna actually we're gonna reschedule it in august you're right it's going to be rescheduled for date in august and it will be announced on imo durst anybody"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "that's interested in coming to a session specifically on brainstorming around the ietf guides program it's how can we better support virtual attendees and how can we make it a program that is not tied so specifically to meetings and other things as well but that's that's really what drove us to this point and so with that i'm looking to michelle is there anything else we want to say um [Music] i don't think at this time we're just really dissecting everything that's happening at 114 and really noting what worked well and what didn't and any improvements that we can make and i've been talking to a lot of newcomers at this meeting and i'm going to be following up just to gather feedback and um i'm happy for anybody to talk to me about their experience and um what what was missing because that's really what we're trying to figure out also and like karen said we're trying to figure out those measures of success and we're trying to be very careful and we're going to incorporate what we come up with in future surveys to really focus in on what information we're trying to collect and measure so andrew hi it's uh andrew camping um i'm conscious that a while ago jay from one of the previous surveys one of the stats that really jumped out at me was the number of first-time participants that we never see again um so they come once and then for whatever reason uh that you might infer that way maybe it wasn't a good experience or achieve whatever they wanted but do do we or will we ask"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "are you gonna come again and if so why and if not why not something as simple as that just to get a sense of because they made the effort of coming once it'd be a shame if we continue without such a high attrition rate because that feels really bad so we're definitely talking about that exact um questioning we just have to really figure out how we want to ask it yeah but we're definitely talking about that okay uh any other questions or comments on the newcomers program nick is joining the queue go ahead nick i was curious if um newcomers included uh just newcomers to an ietf meeting or newcomers to ietf mailing lists or idf participation in general it seems like it will be different there would there be different success measures and different needs so uh as you were saying that i i realized one of the other things that i had wanted to mention that was on our give a think about list is how we define newcomers uh and in you know years ago newcomers were it's the fir your first time coming to a physical newcomer meeting and then we changed it to five or fewer meetings and now we think it's a even more general definition than that and we don't know what that definition is yet yeah that's i wanted to add that as well um and thank you nick for the question because there's some interesting work by the soda stream project which is analyzing a lot of data from mailing lists uh archives which are open and for example one of the conclusions that they came with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "was that people who joined the mailing list and then very soon after they joined the mailing list had an interaction with someone who was more experienced tended to stick around and of course we don't know if they had the interaction with the more experienced participant because their initial intervention was more interesting to experience participants or you know what the the cause uh the flow the flow there is um but but also just to point out that also um yeah the the um current um uh setup is is seems to be um meeting specific and i know there's thinking about that and also even the there's been discussion about the term of newcomer because people who self-identify as very experienced technologists may not be attracted to things that are labeled as uh for newcomers so uh yeah just the i know the conversation that karen and folks are having is pretty nuanced about stuff yep yeah and uh just for another weirdness i happen to be sitting in a room today where the chair had a newcomers uh uh ribbon on their badge because he's been around for a long time in the community and we know him from different circles but he never came to meetings um and to a certain extent it would probably be useful in some circumstances for him to do newcomer stuff but most it wasn't and so dividing down to yeah people who've been participating on the list and know us in different circumstances but haven't been to meetings are a class that we want to sort of bring in once they hit the list not just now years after the the case yeah i i guess absolutely that's what i was thinking is that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "right i know there are going to be some yeah experienced people who who show up at a meeting and but they're already they're they're already ready to go because they they have a lot of connections maybe they need some things about how how the meeting is run um but i'm concerned more about that that sort of pipeline effective there are lots of people who come to our mailing list one time have a terrible experience and then leave and um and then that person is not going to ever attend an in-person meeting um so it might be a different sort of programs but um there might be things we want to do to increase that pipeline at the set of mailing lists or online level yeah i think we're definitely interested in ideas on how to improve people's first experiences in the ietf so so is there anything else on the newcomer program we wish to discuss john john go ahead uh greg and to the state you've gotten an earful about this as as if some others participants and directorate but i think that one of the most important things we can do is that when somebody shows up on a mailing list or trying to write a draft and uh and and intends to constructively participate that we don't have people making assumptions about who they are and what their motives are and uh and why they're doing those things and then turning around and generally beating them up without listening off list in many respects that not a problem for this directorate but it's certainly not a problem for anybody else either and it's definitely a problem if we are trying to recruit newcomers and recruit those people and anybody they might talk with and uh i think there are some very significant steps we need to be taking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "there that we are clearly not including not making it harder to figure out the contact with those issues and not making the people the contact blow them off sorry that's my rant for today no thank you john i know we have uh teed up a conversation with you on this subject so there was one thing i wanted to go back to real briefly on the you know changing the meaning of newcomers i mean it's just like the sort of some of the challenges that we see here with the you know the tooling when we decide we're doing one thing and then we change it sometimes that has a whole bunch of unintended consequences so one of the things is is that uh you know there the through the registration system is where we identify newcomers and it's run you know it's set up and done a certain way and if we change it we the registration system has to be changed or the tags or whatever you know i don't know all the details of it but but these are things where you know we can't just snap our fingers and say okay this is the new the new thing um so we need to think it through and and try not to make too many changes too frequently but i do think that this is one we're definitely interested in in looking at moving forward all right anything else on newcomers all right so the next thing that we had teed up was an idea that uh that um andrew had sent um andrew sent you his slides and not me right yeah that's a really can you just send me your slides um so while he's uh while he's doing this i'm just gonna um skip over to a few things that we'll we'll talk to at the end one is we do have open meetings like virtual meetings roughly every six weeks and they are announced on the emoji mailing list and they're listed in upcoming meetings and so that's one way"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "that you can participate the second way and i'm a lot of you i believe are already this way you can join mailing the mailing list and uh so oh look at that slides from andrew um and so part of what we're encouraging here is if people go back and look at the agenda and look at the um uh i i shouldn't talk you should talk but i'll do this karen is focused on getting his slides up so andrew can be prepared um uh or present um i i don't i don't think that they're i was just looking at our agenda i don't i i think that there aren't any other items to cover and i just did want to note that we're um scheduled to end at 6 15 i think and so uh if we haven't covered something here uh and you aren't yet signed up for the emoji list as karen said please sign up for the emoji list that's a good way to stay in touch and if we don't cover something here now uh we can definitely take up conversations on on the list or uh the next um it's kind of a virtual interim but not really um yeah uh it's not officially maybe it is officially virtual interim for emoter yeah so anyway so if you have good ideas feel please feel free to share them uh on the list and then we can discuss them at the meeting and with that you have slides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "perfect timing can i change them from here or do okay fine right so this uh just by the way a bit of context uh this is that we discussed briefly at the last virtual meeting um so there's a bit of duplication with that but i figured that since some of the people here weren't there it'd be useful just to refresh memories um uh and run through it so it's a proposed outreach pilot um this is driven by uh i think i i certainly have a view that the voice of end users is not very strong in in the ietf community or it could be stronger perhaps there's a better way of putting it and this is one activity of maybe several that will help that to improve that and also to diversify the make makeup of the community so next slide please so the the intent is to effectively diversify the participation beyond the tech sector in particular with specific emphasis um on civil society and on sort of enterprises in sectors other than the tech sector it doesn't have to be exclusively limited to that but that will be the primary sort two focus areas um and the objective would be to get the i think rich use uh to coin this phrase the itf curious um to come along to london um not to actually come to the main meeting but to come to an event that'll be effectively co-located with the main meeting to engage a bit um and use that as a way to try and encourage them to engage more afterwards okay so just be using the fact that we're going to be in london and take advantage of having some of the community there to try and just get them to make the next step and answering a question which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "was was posed i can't remember by whom at their last virtual interim i propose that we focus principally on people like directors of policy and ctos in those organizations not because they will necessarily personally be the future participants but they will if they're persuaded that there's a business case if you like for their organization to be involved they can then task people in their teams to then actually do the the follow-up work so it will hopefully save the time of their people having to write a business case if they're effectively the their leaders make the decision it will be a good idea um so they just tell them to do it rather than have to be persuaded afterwards um and my assumption for what it's worth is uh because it f115s in london that it's most likely to be attractive as a session to people who are in europe not that it'd be limited to that but but but on the other hand if the pilot is successful then going forward if it was something which was done regularly then over time it would diversify on a geographic basis as well as on the sectorial basis the the participation and next slide please uh so for clarity the objective is to broader broaden participation in the itf not necessarily in itf meetings um just to be really clear perhaps picking up on the conversation that we were just having but it might be that the future engagement by those organizations might be on mailing lists um or by authoring documents or it could be at meetings or it could be any combination of those things but if an in mailing lists organizat that i think that will be a reasonable success um if they even if they don't come to meetings i don't think that's important as long as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "the structure i'm proposing is a half day uh workshop uh as i say co-located at the same location as ietf 115 just because that'll make the logistics a lot easier for everyone um probably starting at lunchtime and running through to to the evening so half day um doing it at lunchtime so that people that coming from countries in europe but not not the uk they've got a chance to actually get there um and then they can leave at the end rather than necessarily having to stay commit to a a stay overnight um but with remote access for those people that don't necessarily want to travel that will be a bonus if we can do remote access as well next slide please and apologies for the small font i put this together a bit quickly um just before the meeting um so as a sort of proposed structure that and this is only a just as a a working suggestion um basically to start by explaining what the ietf is um and not just the itf itself but the various associated bodies the irtf iesg etc how that all works how it fits in with other standards bodies how the governance of the whole thing works and so just to explain the mechanics because for those of us that perhaps when you come to it new it's all very strange um so just explaining that up front will i think reduce the complexities to people that want to engage in it and and my suggestion is that uh jason and or jay would be the ideal people to maybe lead that session because they probably know that pretty well i would hope um then to bring in i think be useful to get a sense of so what does the ietf do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "and i think it'd be really good to bring in the area directors to each explain in very high level terms what their area does maybe with a view to saying focus not try and explain everything because that will take probably a day for each one but say pick one or two working groups that they think will be more easy to understand and more directly relevant to the target community than just say what they're currently working on that is relevant to that target community um rather than everything that they do which is a long long conversation and a lot of the stuff let's be honest is quite obscure um and wouldn't be very understandable so just pick the exciting stuff uh basically uh so to give 10 minutes plus five minutes q a for each area and so using the fact that we're on site with the meeting to bring the area directors into the room physically uh in person uh then move on to explain how to engage with the itf because obviously that's the primary objective of this so you know through the mailing lists through the meetings interim meetings drafts etcetera etcetera so just bring that to life how they can do stuff with the community um and that and then finish off with a plenary um and q a and some networking and um i don't think i've got a next slide but just in case i have oh i did have a next slide right excellent i'm glad i said that so um and then finally i've had some very informal discussions with potential participants so some business bodies some civil society groups just literally to say explain the concept and say if we were to do this would you come so not committing the fact that it will happen but just say hypothetically if this sort of thing were to happen would you be sufficiently interested to come"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "would you recommend this to your members to come etc etc and so far um everyone that i've spoken to has said yes that they would um and i have pressed them a bit to make sure they're just not being polite and they actually do mean that they would come and they assure me that that's the case but um two final points one is london's not that very far away time-wise so worry to do this it's going to take some time to actually spread the word and get people to get it in their diary so we would need to make a decision sooner rather than later whether we want this to happen i'm happy to really lead on getting people to commit to come but really need some help from the sort of the ihf team in terms of making sure that there is a room that this is going to happen in uh that we can get the area directors to come along and you know basically all the really complicated logistics um is you know i can get bums on seats but there need to be seats and people to talk to them and all the organizational stuff so it needs an early decision uh sooner rather than later whether this it feels like the right thing to be doing and i'll stop there something that just popped in my head that's probably pretty critical um as you were talking about having the 80s come in to talk you know the itf week is an is a crazy week for them um and i think we're gonna have to do some careful planning with finding time slots um that would work um and just that's probably if that's really important to have them there that's probably something that has to be considered very very soon thanks um i would just oh sorry go ahead mary"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "yeah because i actually want to add something i think there's actually zero chance to get like most of the area actors and in there we just discussed um some kind of retreat like things that we that the iap thinks that they could attach to a meeting but for the ihd this is kind of impossible so i don't think um if you want especially if you want to have this in like this large scope that is absolutely impossible i think um also i i really want to say that there's a big difference between policy makers um and industry and i think they they not only need different information they also need different treatment and when it's about policy makers i think the ib needs to be involved and i think we should we should rely on isoc because icelock has already these relations to the policy makers that we should rely on and there's also like a whole lot of sensitivity here i mean i understand that you mainly want to explain how the ihf works to these people and that is a very important task and we should definitely do that um but when you when you actually give policy makers um the chance to to come and have this special forum um we also have to prepare to be prepared for all kind kind of questions which might be very sensitive um and uh and so i think we should not like do this easily um yeah i think that's my point i know one more point i actually have it on my list to talk to isoc about providing some kind of forum maybe in a much smaller sense to have an exchange with policymakers and just to um be fair andrew did reach out to me and ask icehawk's opinion on this and i just haven't gotten back to him yet so um there's a lot of so i do think that there is some opportunity there but we'll have to talk about it further and obviously we're in no position to commit at this point"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "um i just want to chime in and say i think mira's point about uh the uh area directors is a good one i mean i've seen some of the scheduling conversations it's so hard that said i love this idea um i think this would piggyback on some outreach efforts that i'm interested in from you know fundraising and recruitment i also think it would be really good in helping us understand how to talk to different audiences and you know i agree the policy maker conversations are different but those who work for industry and then work in policy i think can straddle that line and i think there is a really interesting opportunity for engagement there so i do agree there's a lot of logistical complications um that said if you are looking for an internal champion i will be one with you i i just wanted to say don't hang your hat too much on just having isg people there there are sufficient numbers of us ex and sufficiently gray-haired people to do this kind of stuff and not interfere with their whole week which i think with ads you're inevitably gonna do um so there's lots of people who can do this uh and then i think we have drew yeah i just want to echo one more point i think especially with enterprise if we have folks from the enterprise also come in and say why do they participate that would be very helpful because when we go and like you know preach from our side that like itf is this great organization i think why is the most important question that why should enterprise even care and for that instead of focusing too much on what itf does and how sorry what is still important like how it functions is not the most important thing it's like why should they participate and if we can have some case studies"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "on like you know like even listen directly from enterprise folks which are currently there we know that we have very few but there are they are here and we could maybe use them as are like you know the main champions rather than ads uh i know we cut the cue uh but mira did you have one thing you wanted to say yeah i want to emphasize this again that i think like policymakers and and industry elite is is a very different audience and we should not put them together because they need different um uh information and i think um lee berkeley and andrew were more talking about um enterprise or industry and so that's a different business um and um [Music] sorry it's already late i lost i lost my thought it was something else uh so like i think the challenge here is actually to for for policy makers we also um should like uh rely on isoc's context right so this is like something that is more straightforward for me um but i think the challenge is not like organizing this workshop the chinese actually get the right people into the workshop everyone wants to say one okay andrew please yes so just on on the policymakers i should say my background is as a policy maker uh in in industry so in case i wasn't clear that the intent is here is ideally to have pairs of people so the sort of cto and the director of policy together because the cto clearly should be more familiar with the technical aspects up to a point the policy director will have a much better understanding of how that relates to what their business is trying to achieve and the point is to have the two together uh wherever possible um okay so you're not talking about governmental representatives no no this is policy directors in india you know that's fine but like you also had like civil society on there and like i would put them rather in the bucket together"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "with um with governmental representatives um from the kind of information they might be looking for okay so the sort of people i spoke to in civil society some of them have uh policy directors and and also ctos within civil society groups um so again we're and that's not true of all of them by the way some of them don't have ctos but those that do i think it'd be much more effective to have have both together they'll get more out of a discussion but than either coming in isolation so maybe we should actually look through the list of people more concretely that you've been in touch with i think that would be very useful yeah i actually i think there's a lot of agreement about the potential uh value of the kind of outreach but maybe just not the exact proposed format so i didn't hear anybody say no you shouldn't do this but just not maybe not in this format um and it also feels like there's an energy around the table or around the virtual table to i saw some comments in the chat maybe there's a conversation that can continue and um i know time is short for 1 15 but i don't know karen what you think about that well i think if we're going to do it for 115 we we need to have some additional conversations and we need to get those scheduled very soon uh so uh i i i would start with suggesting the group of people that are really interested in helping to drive that to define this and drive it if you could perhaps identify yourselves to greg and i afterwards and then we can see see what the possibilities are and then i think we are going to need to get leadership sign off on this uh we're we're going to need to and resourcing sign off yeah if it involves any idea of leadership or idea of resources for sure yeah so uh it's it's it's not a i think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "that there is a lot of energy and there's some good ideas here we need to figure out how to move forward with them uh part of what we're trying to do with emo door is to define things as little projects that can pretty much work you know they can can get critical mass and move forward so um lee are you willing to work on this i'm going to put you on the spot yes absolutely okay and he'll be my right hand man [Laughter] all right so it's uh 6 17 and so um i was going to ask amir i don't know if you wanted we we went over the plan and i said that there were quick some quick start guides and that you were working on coordinating a bunch of us did you want to say anything more or is that enough that's it okay uh so i deeply thank everybody for coming i think this has been a really good turnout and a really positive discussion um join the mailing list uh volunteer to help in the specific things that you're interested in and uh join the next virtual interim meeting that we have which will probably be in roughly six weeks or so uh and with that uh everybody that's here go enjoy the social and all the remote people uh enjoy wherever you are and thanks everybody again thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:06",
    "text": "you"
  }
]
