[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:35",
    "text": "I you know, decades of Blue sheet. Mencel? Yes. Yeah. It is done. So Oh, so so they are says turn So what do you think this use the existing terms. That's Well, man, because you can you can there's the alternate terms it's sitting somewhere"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "trade. like, session. for this Yes. that we're Where what? The last session The last session and the Right. the we're the one hidden in the corner. corps Alright. So on that note, where we will go ahead and get started. Can you do you mind Dennis just popping into the hall and and seeing? because I I know he's here. So Welcome to the NTP Working Group. we have Had a last minute flurry of activity. So, This is the IETF Notewell. You will have agreed to abide by all of these policies when you registered. It gives you all of the processes that we use and also our code of conduct, our anti harassment, policy and those kinds of things. If you have any questions about any of these documents or the note well itself, please contact the chairs or or our area director. Couple reminders on meetings, just sort of general admin note first of all, we will be using the online notes tool Please feel free to contribute to that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "if you look at the data tracker, if you haven't been using that, There's a link to the notes pad. And Dietrich will be taking notes there, but others please add in as we go, and that helps us get more complete. and accurate notes. 2nd of all, we do have both remote and in person participants. So please use the queuing tool to get in the line. And 3rd, if you could please be clear, concise, and respectful. that would be very helpful for the meeting. and please act according to our code of conduct. So with that, We have a I really link the agenda of a lot of short updates. we're gonna go ahead and get moving on that. We have basically, we have requested updates on all of the current things that we have ongoing. If you is there any agenda bashing? No. Just a couple of quick updates from the chairs. The documents that are currently passed the working group And in the next stages, we 2 of these, we have actually short updates on the agenda later, both the NTP registries and the Kronos. And then the enterprise profile if you were in here just prior to the meeting, we were discussing the status of that. We've discovered it needs a we need an updated draft and we also need an actual shepherd right up. So we'll be working on that. So with that, We're going to move on to the Kronos update, and NETA has provided us a short slide to just talk about status of that document. see if I can find it. Kronos update."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "Share. we go. You find this? Told her. Okay. So, yeah, just quick updates of the the concept draft. So following the IA SG Generation, and we We added some a a section, like, the kid a load consideration, which also was addressed in the mailing list. operation considerations, and also implementation status. And we also elaborate Honors Pool And System section, and we would like to thank Karen and our shipper Peter, and all of you guys, and in my next for all the goods and meaningful Comments. So Any questions on the status of Kronos? Nope. Thank you very much. Neda, she has been an exemplary author responding to all of the questions. The one thing I did forget to mention, if if you are not a regular participant here, the way that you sign is you log in to Meet Echo, You can scan the QR code there. We also have a QR code via a blue sheet, but as you need to that's the only that's also the way that you get into the queue. So you do need to log in to Meet Echo either with your phone or on your laptop. And register for the meeting. Alright. So The next thing on trees. Let's see. I do believe we have. Oh, there we go."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "k. Next slide. I'm Rick Soles. I'm Spencer. rich, whatever. Yep. Sorry about that. Okay. we had 2 issues that came up during the last call, and then one that was last night that I think is non actionable. Relates the ASCII parts of the message, the NTP messages, the protocol units. They're very similar. There's reference identifiers, kiss the death codes, talk about it in the next slide. All this had passed through without comment within the working group. But you know, last call is a chance to find the things that we missed, and looks like we missed a couple things. minor discussion, and I've been through the archives. They're about 4 or 5 posts from about three or four people on each issue. Next? The first issue is what characters in Textfield. The current specification, 59056, says ASCII and doesn't specify any subset. The draft proposed uppercase ASCII and the minus sign. the leading minus sign being private use indicator. Steve posted a list of oh, here's all the one yeah. things I've seen, And all sorts of mixed characters. We should clearly the draft is wrong. letters and digits in minus sign, printable ASCII, whatever that is, you know, Space. 32 to 176. well well well well, whatever it is, 41 to 176 21 to 176. So I don't know what that is. But looking for guidance from working group on this. I suppose Prinne Blaskey is the thing to do. went looking for a good definition of that. Didn't find one, so we'll just say, you know, the hex value is the binary code that that numeric value codes. any Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "I I do seem to recall that there was I just need to recall that there was some equivalent and printable ASCII definitions in, I think, the URL 3986 or in in those sorts of spaces, they have some ABNF for things If I remember, I'll try to find something. Thank you. Watson Ladd, Akamai. there's gonna be a printed Balaski definition that falls out of Unicode. today if you really wanna go that way. But -- No. I don't wanna conjure the ghost of Rob Sarah. If you anyhow. Okay. So I'll look for it. I'll try to find something and get help. and say that the the field should be printable ASCII. Okay. Next slide. Second issue is private use things This let's people register fields, what was it, kiss or death codes, and and reference references that are not, you know, reserves of space for private use The current one is x, We don't know since not registered, of course, how many people are using it. The draft proposed use a leading dash and that the experts should check with the working group if someone and x, and thanks to Eric Klein, a d for that. I Do we have an opinion? Keep the current practices less controversial because it's the current practice. the dash is, you know, neurodesthetics. So Go ahead, David. Yeah. I I would have a slight preference to keeping the x around. just because it's what's currently at least in NFVDRs is in active use. Anyone strongly bothered by that?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "Okay. We'll do we'll change that. I think that's it. Is there one more slide? No. That that's it. But did you go ahead. There was mail that came through yesterday, very, very lengthy. Oh, the draft is full of all sorts of errors And so I bring back used net days, went through point by point. I found one suggested editorial change to make But I I encourage people to consider reading it and I'll put on a new draft that captures both of these two changes and the one editorial change, and get that out, you know, sometime next week. Okay. Any questions on the registry's draft? Cool. Thanks. Alright. Thank you. Alright. So the Next item on the agenda is going to be a very short Discussion from Ditter on future of leap seconds, because it leads into the 2 consensus calls that we did for the NTPV 5 requirements draft. one on Leip smearing and one on which modes of service. So we're gonna start with that, and then we're gonna go through the 2 consensus calls. Can you just playing, playing, playing, playing. I'm sure many of you already informed about this So meta, but others may not. So I want to percent to short summary of the resolution next slide, please, of the the solution of the general conference of of on weights and measurements regarding the future of sleep settings. first of all, what is a GPM cheat CGPM. It's a supreme"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "authority of the VITM and they consists of member states and associated states all over all over the world, roughly about 100. And and Last year, they had a resolution on the different between UT1 and UTC and you can read that. And I suppose most important is that with 20, 35, the difference between UT1 and UT should be Uh-huh. increased, from the current value, which is 0.9 seconds, to to whatever. So that's not fixed yet, But the resolution also states that And you would value for this this difference shall be A proposed by by the CPIM And ITU. And shall be a plan of action plant, plant, in order to apply this new maximum value. And then on the next meeting of the general conference of weights and measurements. in 2026. they will perhaps agree on this agreement. So that's only just to inform you about the the future sleep settings. I as opposed for us, it's important to know that we certainly have to deal with future leap segment. insultants this this NTP So please don't ask 2 diff difficult questions regarding this. If you want to have More information about that, you can address Christophe, who is involved in and dysclosest"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:06",
    "text": "Okay. Then I can continue with the consensus calls. We had Next slide, please. 8 2 consensus calls require regarding the requirements chart for NTP version 5. The first one, yes, the codes of of of this constants calls, have been to Help to advance cell requirements draft. And to resolve this a a digital panty between the current version of NTP version 5 requirements and conversion of the NTP protocol specification. Next slide, please. The first one was question about lead seconds mirroring. That is to say, Shell, says it's considered time stamps Also, first of all, Shell, NTP version 5 consider lip smearing. And if yes, shall be this information be transmitted by the It's a silver. And we had half consensus that for both of these, just the that is to say, lip segments, we consider it in NTP version 5 and the this information shall also be disseminated by the this over to the client Next slide, please. There have been a lot of comments about how to do this that was not in the scope of the the the call, actually. But My impression was that we have a common understanding that during the time this period of time in which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "Smyeong is supplied the server should send information to the client, so that he the client can be aware of the offset between the smear time and the and UTC. Okay. So from our point of view, by forward, for this at for the requirements craft is to at language in order to support muting and dissemination. of this information. Yes. change Go on. before we move on to the second point, it it sounds like the consensus is clear that it should be included. I'll I'll update the document, but the full nitty gritty details of what needs to be included is not fully clear to me because the looking at the response is it sounds like there's several different approaches that we could take to how smearing is announced. And in my head, there's still a few questions unresolved, such as does the server announce that it is smearing even when it is not to say that it has smearing capability. For example, and several other points that probably the flashing out in detail, but we could either choose to it omid them from the requirements draft and just say, hey. That's the score smearing, and then argue about its in Mirosoft's document, or we can choose to take the path of being super nitty gritty in the requirements stock, I'm okay with either approach. David. To me, respond to that, I would suggest that we do not become incredibly integrated in the requirements document. also in line with the policy of having running code for stuff. I think that's just a lot easier to to to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "to hammer out these specific details once we have the more concrete spec and people have experience with building code to that spec. Right? Yeah. Yeah. My my preference would be that we do not put the details of how it's done in the requirements draft so that we can get this document done and out the door. I know Mary Slove is waiting on Consensus on these 2 issues before he really updates the NTPV 5 specs. So Okay. Hi. This is Doug Arnold from Meinberg. It was just brought up that there's important details about how smearing is announced, I think it would be Worse announcing separately for a server to say, I'm Currently configured to smear lead seconds when they happen, in addition to saying, I am currently smearing a leap second right now. So just to clarify what you're saying that they should we we should have 2 option or with there's 22 scenarios. One is I can do it at some point in time versus A leap second is occurring, and I am smearing now. Not not just that I can do it. I am currently configured to do it when a leap second happens. that that's so that people know it's coming. So it's something like it's in addition to a leap second announcement So you would announce that I'm that the servers configured that he's able to do that. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:05",
    "text": "Yeah. If you if you look in Mira's proposal, Your heat he essentially does that by identifying that that's the timescale I'm using is smeared UTC, And so then even if a leap second isn't happening, then you know that if a leap second comes up, it will be smeared. I think that's an important thing a client to know. in addition to it is happening now, I am currently smearing that should also be flag as well. Hi. This is Dennis Riley from Equinix, and I agree with Doug. that it's important to announce that the server is configured for Leapsmaring? if for no other reason, then The way the way NTP is configured, you're not always using servers that you've configured yourself. So without that notification, you have no way of knowing whether a server you're connected to, is going to smear or not, and you may care about that. Okay. Okay. For for the purposes of James' document though, this this is is a a NTPV 5 specification discussion and not a requirement discussion. Right? Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Then we can proceed to the next consensus call that was about modes. will be supported by Ntob version 5. addition, in addition to the most used client server mode. So the question is shall NTP version 5, within additionally supports metrics in podcast modes. from the previous version of NTP. And in this case, we only have a slight majority. Tech Food"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "refer to only to support only clients. Black, So as Ditch indicated, we only had a slight majority and it and as and as and as any of you who are following the mailing list know that it was a lengthy conversation. One of the things Was this on your later I don't remember if this on his next slide or not, but 1 of the things should go to his next slide because I I think we worded the question wrong, and I think we need to clarify it. We're going to see next slide. Okay. Okay. So, by far, I think we have to rephrase the consensus call in order to be become clear answer to 22222 222 to that case. suggestions are based on the comments from the mailing list and NTP version 5 must support the clients over mode. and may support additional modes. and additional modes required contribute the text or could be specific could be No. specify David, are you in the queue for this topic? Yes. I I'm must on the previous slide, I'm a bit uncomfortable with how we formulated. the the the the and and I'm framing the discussion now. and would suggest that we move at least back more towards the IETF rough consensus model and not a sort of voting language. I guess we what we're really trying to say is we did the census call, we did not feel there was rough consensus And so based on that, we were like, oh, you know, we really didn't word the the real option that we were looking for was not yes or no. It was I I think the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "the question is do all of the modes need to be required for something to be ntpv5. And I think going -- forward, what we wanna say is server and client are required and the other modes are are optional. what we currently have in the draft, those modes are We don't have any language around those that language needs to be developed and contributed to the document or a separate document needs to be developed. Zep better way to look at it, David? Yeah. In terms of the content of this discussion, I still have some things, but I think now that should go first. Netta. You need to go to the microphone. Sorry. We have remote participants. another origin shift. I just wanted to say and regarding to this specific question, can we maybe support. Also, maybe not all the symmetry modes, but Maybe we can support broadcast because this is something that that raised in different part of the the group, but maybe we can improve security next because we we can rely on on this progress mode. So maybe just to support that as well, not as a default, but maybe Just to have it on their NTP before b 5? Right. I I think the intention is not to deprecate any of the modes. It's it's to specify what the minimum requirements are. What the minimum requirements are? So maybe we can and So that imp implementations right now that own that, you know, there there is a debate about implementations right now. If they don't support all of the modes of service, are they NTPV for implementations or not. And I think the consensus is that, you know,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "A large majority of the traffic on the open Internet is actually serve a client. Yeah. And so that you know, that that's what we should have. Now the the challenge we have in this working group is that you know, we have an author contributing text who's interested in 2 of the modes of service, and we need to get rest of the modes of service documented. So we need people to write that. So if there's anybody who's interested in learning more about NTPV, NTP in general and NTP V5 in particular, we would love to have contributions support those other additional modes of service. We're not trying to get rid of them. Oh. We just No. Okay. 3? Yeah. Terry 3rd. Yeah. Question for you then. Would you like broadcast mode to be a must or a should, or in with all the rest of the maze. should be supported. Should. Yeah. So for the remote people, you say you can podcast should be and that all caps should be supported. Are there any more? Oh, David, go ahead. Yes. I I want to contradict you at least on one point and that is that some of us are actively trying to get rid of these modes. Me being are those persons to be quite honest? But let's keep that discussion on the mailing list to keep things a little bit more concise here. I do have one question, and that is regarding IETF processes, how how likely are we to get a document paths, primarily security review if There are massive open holes in it. which with broadcast mode, is something that I at least don't see how we are gonna close."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:05",
    "text": "I don't know how to answer the question. How likely are we to get that through the process? I I I hear your concerns. I think without seeing what text gets contributed. It's hard to actually address it I wonder for the purposes of the requirements document if we can go with the the requirements document saying that it must support client server and it may support additional modes. and then we can cross those other bridges when we get to it. Does that Makes sense? A little bit. Let me reformulate the question on the list. But -- Okay. from the IETF, what what are currently the requirements on from security in new protocols. phrase it that way. And Eric Klein. I would I would say that if you brought a document that was a new protocol to the IETF and it had all security holes. you would spend a lot of time addressing discuss comments. However, depending on on how you wanna wanna face things, you don't have to pitch this as being new. you wanna pitch this as being an evolution of of v Four and say, if is no worse than what we currently have. You could try to make that argument. how well that's received. I don't know. But, yeah, if they were if if the intent is to present this as as the newer, cleaner, thing, I would expect security to have strong thoughts on. on anything that has no security properties. Although, you might also be able to address it by an applicability statement. this is only applicable in lands that secure something. or, you know, it this is only applicable in the following environments where the following security properties can be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "by something outside of the scope of this document. you could try for a text like that. if you wanted to. I don't know if that helps answer your question or Yes. That that would be my answer to my question. Okay. And d. The summary for those who had bad audio was that Oh, it says to put summon. Eric, can you put your statements in I guess that when you're Thank you. I was gonna summarize it, but if their audio is bad, that doesn't make any sense, does it? Alright. So I think we have a way forward. James, of Does this address the open issues you have on the requirements document? Yeah. I think this this does. I think if for the supported modes if we take the approach of Musable client mode and may support additional modes, that is enough to wrap things up. in terms of cutting a new version, that's something I can do over the weekend also. is the I guess, a question for for the for you guys is once I cut that new version, is that now the opportunity for working group last school, I I like you to publish a new version and then we'll we'll circulate it for a few weeks and if there's not a ton of comments at that point, then we'll do a working group last call. I think it's Time to wrap this up. Yep. And then my my other question is is then who's gonna document chef header And are they going to do an early review? I don't know who's going to document shepherd it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "Are there any volunteers? Is there somebody who would to learn the document shepherd process. Oh, I see it's I I see a really slight handwave. I'm I'm I'm willing to help coach someone that you want to learn about? No. -- has volunteered to be the document shepherd for this. very hesitantly, apparently. Fuck. Yeah. Exactly. So yes. we do have a document shepherd, James. It'll be NETA, and the the chairs and Eric will will help her through that process. And thank you, Neda. Any other questions, James? No. Thank you for doing the consensus call. Okay. Alright. So we have a couple items where we don't have Any slides? I just wanna give a couple updates on them. As I mentioned, Amerisov was unable to attend the meeting. He was waiting on the consensus calls before he updated the protocol specification. This specification has been around for a little while now, and it has been adopted as working group document, so we do need to get some comments in on it. And we also need yeah, more review of it. The NTP over PTP document, there was an update submitted. And hold on one second."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:04",
    "text": "That's funny. So bay basically, the update from Mary Slab is is no update to the NTP V Five draft. We need to wait for consensus. We've gotten that one now. He did say consensus on timescales as well, and we've already gotten consensus that we're gonna support. We're gonna allow this multiple. we're gonna allow alter alternative time scales. Correct? Yeah. So I don't think we're stuck on the that anymore. The NTP over PTP draft was updated to address the comments from Martin and has other minor improvements the main remaining tasks to find out how we get the PTP TLV type assigned. whether the IATF has an organization ID that we could use for this. regards Marislav. So that's where we are with that And I think I will I'm not sure if that's been asked of the 1588 community or not, I don't think it has been, so we'll need to figure that one out. So those are the updates on those two documents. And that takes us to NTS for PTP. We still don't have an updated draft on that, but I spoke with Martin Langa, and on behalf of him, I following information, there has not been an update since the last meeting there are currently some open issues with the documents or or content changes that are pending and that that he intends to include in the next version, which we Okay. intends to submit in fall this year."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "after that, he would like to have an adoption call for for this document. and which is also interesting. He wants to start implementation of this stuff in August this year. Okay. So that brings us to rough time, and we have lots in here. Oh, sorry. 1. Oh, he's off the queue now. It it's fine. The the question point till the main event too many windows. So just to clarify, David, you said you'll send your question to the mailing list? I will Okay. Thank you. Slides. Sorry. Oh, that's could help. It's hard to get. Okay. I'm watching Latimore and the author's the rough time draft. and this are update on progress since the last week. Well, Last several meetings. Next slide, please. There hasn't been much. There has been a lot of discussion in the mailing list. There's been a lot of outside interest, but outside interest usually stops at. It would be great when it's out there and deployed and working, And then the next step of Okay. So you're gonna run one of the things that we envision the protocol. Right? Well, That's what we get. And, you know, the authors have also been distracting. So some of this is my thing, but some of it is the interest in in getting the problem solved is not translating into effort actually solving the problem on the part of some of the organizations and entities that you might envision running certain parts of the protocol. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "Those who might need some recollection, This is simply a certificate transparency for time. We need to have servers. We also need entities running things to check on the servers and deciding what servers are trusted. Slide, please. implementations. So there were a lot of them. There are fewer of them running, They all win different versions and those they're not getting updated. we don't we are not really in the way are not forming the ecosystem that was envisioned, and, you know, some places had lay out and have refocused, and that means that some of the bursts of interest that we've had before aren't there. Then there's the value of the draft. And, you know, the progression of lists, it's clear that we're not really doing I'm not really doing a good job as an author explaining the value of it. and the reason is sort of, you know, people might not be familiar with the seat with sort of the the the the the nitty gritty of what actually happens when you try to deploy PKAX across lots of devices. and they have bad clocks. And it's the problem that, you know, you you don't really run into it in a lot of environments or you sort of get by it once, and that's fine because then the computer knows what time it is, and we would stuff the next time, I see you all shaking his head. Like, it doesn't really happen. Yeah. and lot of the obvious applications have good enough workaround. So you just suffer with the pain now. a Next slide. So what to do? Well, you know, there need to be some consensus scrolls. We've got open issues on GitHub. Do I just go ahead and close them and send back, okay. Here's what we decided. If you complain, you know, But then there's sort of a bigger question. If there isn't gonna be this ecosystem,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:04",
    "text": "Then the ecosystem draft that explains a lot of how we envision these things working, is sort of very aspirational. Do we drop it, try to fold into the wire format? Does it make sense to have a standard track document for big thing that's not really getting deployed. need to retire the experimental, Are there you know, if I take these issues, post them a list, ask people to we also need to talk about, like, data versus list in terms of, like, how we work to close out these issues. and sort of What's the path, you know, if we do have an experimental thing out there? Is that what we're gonna do and see if people start adopting and then maybe come back when we find problems later or maybe we never come back. because you'll be bothered to find the problems and deploy it. So these are all sort of questions that I can't as an author really answer or that's serve you guys. James, Biggest question that I have is the my understanding was is that at at of recent times, there were two sort of groups that were interested in it, there was a team in side of Google, I think, to do with Software Integrity And also, there were some people chiming up from Automotive. Are they Do you know if they're still interested in this or not, or have they also moved on to other things, see the slide that mentioned it. Yeah. So, basically, the the within Google, I've heard from people who are familiar with the situation that they are now focused much more narrowly. and automotive, I haven't heard from him in quite some time. I mean, to be clear, on the way to this meeting, I chatted with someone from, you know, major browser, and they yes, it would be great if you solved it. They're not here."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "Oh, Because I would I would like to help with this, but I'm not gonna I I don't work for somebody who would actually deploy it. So I I realized that my work would be purely limited to the editorials side more than than anything else. But okay. That would be helpful. So next in the queue, I'd see David or if you wanna Yeah. For me, part of the reason why Okay. So so we come from I come from a company that at the moment is doing a lot of time related implementations, not not so much as deploying them ourselves, but providing open source implementation for a lot of these things. What are the reasons we haven't even done more than a cursory, exploration of rough time is with the current draft, at least for us, it's very unclear what its place even is. It it it seems to be a lot for a lot of different people. And for solving the sort of bootstrap problem it seems overly complicated, and and that supports quite a bit that seems to want to do more than that, but So so I I I think part of the problem especially now the so the audio doctors have have sort of moved on is that the current draft might not be targeted enough to to really grab the attention of people you. It's very helpful. Thank Bob back bad system time clock enthusiasts. I I think there's probably interest to this in in a variety of bootstrapping problems, whether that's browser, whether that's an operating system. I think you know, if if I look at your options, I would say moving to a GitHub project might be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "slightly better way to get more interest I think we need that traction for it's it's the if you build it, they will come, but you, you know, you haven't built it. you need that that little bit of traction to get there and answer the you know, where do we get a list and who's enforcing that list? kind of thing. It's it's almost like running a root program. And and sorry. I I have one more. the the the the CT comparison, again, I don't think as someone possibly involved in CT. yeah, CT is hard. This isn't hard. It's not. And and that comparison is is probably doing, you know, favors. but I would probably be interested in helping out on several of those fronts. And and, to me, the GitHub thing is just about how we work on the draft. The authors are using a GitHub and then we're putting the drafts here. It's about do we wanna have conversation on the this is something other working groups have done. But, yes, thank you. It's very helpful. Spencer Dalkins, cloning, actings, rituals. yeah, I think the CT for time is know, that's an engineer way of thing. I think there is a lot of a major problem is what happens when the system boots and it needs to verify a PKI. fact that it could make this call and see more or less that it's accurate The I think that's a major selling point. And then the other thing was I think the browser guy person. It's like Would you please run 1 and then we'd use it? So maybe. But I yeah. I'll also help. I think we can make the sales job a little better, and then it's actually pretty easy to deploy one of these things. Right? A Raspberry Pi with the GPS, and you're good to go. Eric Klein and No hats. I'll just say that sometimes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "people have asked me, the difference between rough time and NTP plus NDS, and it's been a long time since I've had a chance to look at anything. but I I do not have an elevator pitch ready to go to give them an answer back. So If if that exists in the document, then That's great. If it could exist in a document, that would be also great. Bob, did you want back in the queue? yet just to speak of the alternatives that that people have that I'm involved in at least 2 of them. All of them involved trusting a big guy. And and in a world where we don't want people to be forced to trust a big guy. this is this is a way that you don't have to do it. and maybe those would move that direction they had an option that didn't require them to trust the big guy. Go ahead, James. is it an idea that for it it sounds like there's a couple of people in this session would be interested in helping out. Would it be an idea if us to have either as part of an official NTP interim or something else completely separate, just a call where we just sit down and work out how best to to tackle both the rough time spec and the ecosystem doc. Is that something you'd be willing to do with Watson? I I think that's a great idea if other people are interested. I don't think it has to be too many for a online call. Yeah. I'm I'm definitely down for that. Okay. Alright. or or or the can say, of course. That is the end of my slides. This is sort of the open conversation. We might as well have it while looking at clocked in the area as per tradition."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "Did you have any I mean, it seemed to me we got what we needed for today? Or -- I think we've gotten what we needed. Okay. The the one and we have it sort of as in any other business at the end is I think, I think, days from now, I felt like we needed to have scheduled a couple interim meetings because This is a group that seems to flounder in the absence of occasional interim meetings, We also had originally thought that people wanted to do hackathon activity around NTPV 5 and rough time here. and we sent out the request a couple times and nobody actually indicated that they wanted to do I know some of our developers are in Europe and are not at this meeting, so perhaps it might make more sense to do it in Europe. But we are interested in both hackathon activities around both rough time and ntpV 5. So perhaps you could be prepared to actually demonstrate running code in November. So that actually brings us to any other business and way forward. the first thing is we were planning So looking at doing 2 virtual interims between now and the next IETF meeting, we're looking at mid September and early to mid September and then mid to late October. in advance of the IETF meeting in November. Is there anybody who is that thinks that's a bad idea. Go ahead, Watson. 1 September, October is filled with numerous dates I won't be able to make. Well, we will work to see if we can get you there. I think There there's 2 things here. There's one is just doing regular the virtual inter"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "for NTP in general. If you wanna do a like a design team meeting around rough time. that could be easily scheduled. on on your calendar versus versus my calendar, which is always helpful. So that so there's Did turn and I will get together and and do some scheduling around those. And then the second item is We are in Prague for November. And so we would like to see some running code around NTPV 5, and we would also like to see some around rough time. if you're at all interested in participating in that, we'll go ahead and put put put a you know, we're planning calendars in such a way that we will We plan to be there. And then, hopefully, we can get some of you all to contribute. I think, in the past, especially if you look at the NTS effort. We've had a lot of success with using hackathons to get stuff moving and get the right Right people in the room and the right discussion. I tried a couple times to ensure that I know that the NTP group in particular has a lot of people who don't regularly participate in the IETF. I see we have Pretty good online. participation for this. I do know that I've heard that at least one person who couldn't join the meeting today who had planned to. I tried I did send out some announcements in advance. com The the one question is the tooling for the interim meeting, whether stick with me to echo or whether we wanna go back to Zoom. Is there any I I see shrugs. I mean, everybody here is working with Mead echo. So The advantage to meet echo is you don't need a client. and you don't need to install stuff. The advantage to me for Zoom courses, I use it every day, so it's convenient. Okay. So no preference."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:04",
    "text": "Yeah. Maybe we'll flip a coin and see, but If if anybody feels strongly that one tool would make it easier for to participate than rather than another then please get in touch. do need to be aware that you need a data tracker account. to get into these meetings. It's not the data tracker account is free, but, you know, you still have to have it and you have to do your homework so that you know how to get in the meat echo. The other downside is Well, actually, the new client for me that go is working better on mobile devices. But that was the other downside for a while was that you could actually use a phone to dial into a Zoom meeting as you couldn't do that for me, Echo. with that, we're at the end of the NTP agenda. Does anybody have anything else you'd like to add? So Thank you all for joining in on the last session of the last day of Iutf 117 And thank you everybody who joined online. We're done. So, Eric, before you run off, let's make sure we're on the same page tech. No. You're place. here's what I wanna talk to you about."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:04",
    "text": "fake. wanna make sure we have all sorts of ways to Yeah. I I that's not Sure. Surwagit. things that are in the stock That just becomes a thing we have to fight about. Right? I'd stop their"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:06",
    "text": "but probably in it would be advisable Yeah. And I my next my right on that next week. Okay. It's virtual. and NTP is already"
  }
]
