[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:10",
    "text": "yeah are you in trouble already it\u0027s already in trouble marks in trouble maybe joke inscribe well usually jostle limit so I worry about they mail them usually given how packed it is we should start yeah all right let\u0027s get started our third illustrious co-chair will return momentarily this is the dispatch working group which will be followed immediately by the art area general meeting in the same room if that is not your final destination please off board now the blue sheets are circulating where are they now hold them up something Martin has one behind Martin I don\u0027t know where the other one went thank you in the corner please make sure you sign those we have a minute taker that\u0027s John we don\u0027t have a jobber scrub yet can we get a volunteer for a jabber scribe preferably someone who\u0027s nourish to a mic failing that anyone I could pick someone Hey Joe can you jabber scribe thank you as Barry likes to say please note the note well well this is these are your rights and obligations for intellectual property related to intellectual property for participating in the arms excuse me the ietf as I like to say you have the right to remain silent anything you can say can be used by the ietf please consult with your attorneys if you need to before it pating there has been one agenda bash on the dispatch agenda the opportunistic encryption related the email will be moved to the art area agenda so still in this timeslot just a little bit later on down for organizational reasons proposed deadlines for IETF 102 those of you familiar with dispatch know that we operate on sort of a schedule for getting work in before the next meetings these are the proposed deadlines we will confirm that we are they are exactly what we want them to be and then posts to the mailing list when they\u0027re official it generally if you\u0027re not familiar with how we work if you make the deadlines you\u0027ll go to the front of the list for assigning agenda time if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:10",
    "text": "you miss those deadlines you\u0027re relegated to a OB and probably won\u0027t get agenda time especially given how packed we are this time and please name your drafts according to our usual IETF naming procedures so that we see them in our summaries remember also please that art is the mailing list for general area topics and the dispatch list is for stuff that this working group is actually supposed to process and first up Andy Newton for JSON content notice one sec white chambers you can just tell me next slide whenever you ready all right my name is Annie I\u0027m been introduced a draft on JSON content rules which is the data definition language for JSON that Pete Cordell and I have been working on for some time next um so what\u0027s the problem the problem is when you have protocols or documents that have describe complex JSON data structures these days you have to kind of do it prose and that can get kind of lengthy and tedious they\u0027re kind of lengthy to ride and tedious to read and I found that if English is not your native language sometimes that can be a bit of a challenge so that\u0027s one of the reasons why I think a formal definition of how complex Jason should be produced is necessary often we say examples or what we really need examples are necessary but they\u0027re not sufficient we have two good case studies art F and J card I got started in all this because of our tap trying to get the different our tap implementations to be conformant with each other and it sounded easier than it actually is so we had a bunch of test Suites originally for our tap but none of them actually dealt with the structure of the JSON because it was very difficult to do because there\u0027s no formal definition so that\u0027s where this all started from but I\u0027ve also been lately dealing with a lot of J card issues and the J card specification just like our tap has a lot of examples in there one of the problems though is that the examples tend to help people understand what\u0027s going on with the specification but anytime you start stepping outside what the examples are supposed to do interoperability tends to suffer next slide please so we started down this path we started looking for you know what is it we want to solve here so one of the ideas was we want people who are writing specifications to be able to easily insert these formal definitions inside of their text blocks inside of their prose so they can actually more they can more naturally describe what\u0027s going on but we also want to be able to aid software developers when they\u0027re creating implementations because that at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:10",
    "text": "the end of the day is the thing we\u0027re trying to get done we\u0027re trying to make sure that protocols interoperate with each other and as I said we want test Suites to be able to it\u0027s to be more easily written so you can test these things out and then the other thing is and this is kind of something that I feel like the relaxed and G context so compact syntax has it\u0027s kind of legible to the casual reader so one of the things we\u0027re looking at is how do you take someone who knows what JSON is maybe hasn\u0027t actually seen JCR but they\u0027ve been around the block a couple of times they\u0027ve seen other DDL is you know their schema languages and they can probably look at and go yeah I kind of get what\u0027s going on there so next slide so here\u0027s the history of this we\u0027ve been working on this for a couple of years started out with a Jason like syntax it was not just incompatible to define different rules then you know taking some hints from people we said some people said hey we want a more verbose syntax that actually has words in there we tried that it turns out no one really liked that and now we settle on syntax that\u0027s actually a proper superset of JSON and the reason I think that\u0027s beneficial is because it allows you to take actual JSON an example that what you\u0027re starting with and go from there and you can start writing your rule sets based on that it\u0027s an easy way to take something you already have and start crafting rule sets in an iterative fashion we\u0027ve been working on software so one of the things you\u0027ve been keen to do is because realize this is a complex topic is make sure that we kind of get all the corner cases out of the way so we actually have software we have a piece of software that I\u0027ve been working on and plus two other in the works implementations just to make sure that we understand the issues that would be we\u0027re dealing with I mentioned that you know I got into this because of our DEP trying to make sure there\u0027s our DEP conformance one of the other things I wanted to do is make sure this actually worked for our app because that\u0027s where it started from and so the nick info our DEP client actually has JCR validation built into it now so that\u0027s one of the things I\u0027m working on with other RF off of implementation authors trying to help them become more conformant with that next slide please so here\u0027s an example this is an example of taking cider notation are trying to decompose it it\u0027s just a an example here but it\u0027ll say you\u0027ve won an array and you wanted to break it down into each cider notation into a prefix and a length the top example the top there in black is what the Jason would look like and then your first iteration of JCR could be as simple as taking that and saying okay the prefix is an IP address the length is an integer you\u0027re good to go of course if you wanted to get a little more thorough about what you\u0027re trying to specify you say you know v4 v6 are actually different when it comes to lengths so hey let\u0027s break this down into two different types one for v4 one for v6 where when you have a v4 address the length is 32 or is 128 for v6 and so that\u0027s what the second example is and you can get even more "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:11",
    "text": "or detailed if you want to excellent oops so like I said we\u0027ve done a lot of work on this there has been discussion on adjacent working mailing lists but the jacent working group jason working group itself is now closed we have at least two github projects on this and there have been a lot of discussions in the trackers the issue trackers there and then I\u0027ve also had I\u0027ve dealt with a lot of private email about this as well so where we currently stand the o.9 Draft is is I think in really good shape there are two things we would like to work on kind of issues we like to close and one\u0027s a better way of taking a member of err members in an object and how you how you or them right now it\u0027s a inclusive or that has an algorithm for it but we think there\u0027s a better way of doing it which is actually more along the lines of what people mean versus what they write and the other is a more formal way of extending rules you can do it now but you there\u0027s some things you have to pay attention to so we think there\u0027s a better way of doing that and so what we won\u0027t go now is we think it\u0027s time to actually try to get this moving along more formally in the IETF and so we\u0027re looking for ad sponsorship via dispatch so I think that\u0027s oh yeah there\u0027s more if you haven\u0027t read the draft or if you did but the if you go to Jason content rules org there\u0027s examples and there\u0027s an online checker on up there as well that P Kordell did so I think it\u0027s the last slide okay so questions comments feedback yeah mom Thompson I\u0027ve been aware of this for years it\u0027s kind of interesting that you\u0027re coming now is is this because you think it\u0027s done like I said it\u0027s very close to done in fact if we if push came to shove I think the Oh nan could go through the these other two issues would be great if we could get them worked out and effect for the first one we have the algorithm already I just want to kind of get it into software before I actually formally specified and the second one if we really had to it could be an extension so yeah so the other thing that sort of makes me a little less enthusiastic about this is this is just one of many you didn\u0027t address that point in your presentation can you speak a little bit about the multitude of other ways of specifying jason schemas I mean we already have one of them in an RFC it\u0027s called yang not exactly not exactly the sort of thing that I think is as general purposes what you\u0027re describing but there\u0027s there\u0027s also JSON schema there\u0027s there\u0027s a bunch of other things that that exist out there what why will why would we add one more to the pile I mean you know we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:11",
    "text": "could come up with adjacent encoding rules for asn.1 to write some people like abstraction layers I\u0027m not a big fan of them if you want to do that go ahead I mean my philosophy is do what you want to do but I prefer something that\u0027s a little more specific to the problem we\u0027re trying to solve having to go when you\u0027re when you\u0027re dealing we\u0027re trying to try to get people who are writing implementations to have to learn something else that maybe not be germane to what they\u0027re working on you just in order to get software interoperability going that that\u0027s just another barrier to problems with interoperability so something a little more targeted to JSON is what\u0027s best yes the question there is well okay so I have a need to consume Jason schemas for other reasons now I\u0027ve got a deal with this other thing because of the specification that I\u0027m dealing with uses this and there\u0027s there\u0027s a problem in that if we add to the pile we now have more things that people have to manage in parallel the the reason that we have xml schemas and relax ng is that xml schemas were redacted is this better than the alternatives yes that is very subjective subjective yes well I mean it\u0027s always gonna do subjective right so I I am NOT a big fan of that\u0027s not schema myself I\u0027d rather do relax and gif had to do XML and they\u0027re a good good number of reasons for that but there are people who are very comfortable with it at the end of the day I think a tool that helps you get the work done is what you want there are always going to people who like certain syntaxes they want you know curly braces here or something else as long as you have a tool that helps people I think that\u0027s what\u0027s important again as far as abstraction layers go I tend to think those tent those get more in the way of people who are very who are concentrating on that problem and I\u0027ve dealt a lot with people especially like I said to use cases I have our Jake art and art app and I\u0027ve dealt with people who have to go read these things and they\u0027re they\u0027re not interested in going trying to figure out especially Jake art cake art is quite complex they have to go through five different RFC\u0027s to figure out what\u0027s going on and that\u0027s very problematic for them that\u0027s one thing I\u0027d like to see discuss a little bit more perhaps in the draft is is the the conceptual framework that you\u0027re using for this now you talked about a little bit here is the intent is that people producing a document work directly with the JSON you\u0027re not talking about a language that would allow you to describe mapping of the JSON into other things no that\u0027s that\u0027s yes which is often something that people that have to do with the scheme of languages sometimes and those sorts of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:11",
    "text": "those sorts of questions would I think would would ideally be addressed such that you can position this relative to the other things that exist in in the space and people understand whether or not this applies to them or not so they\u0027re gonna get straight you think it\u0027d be best to have to formalize a way to map JSON into other no no youyou clearly don\u0027t want that Yeah right you clearly note one back but I think it would be responsible of you to put that in the document as if that\u0027s what you want go to use yang or something else well you don\u0027t have to say that you just have to say yes is your intense are with respect to defining another thing okay so it so mark that is out of scope clearly is that what you\u0027re saying okay this is intended for X and it\u0027s intended for X for the following reasons that said something else then you\u0027re in look in the wrong place that\u0027s that\u0027s a great thing for me to add yes thanks Neil Jenkins um so this is purely about being able to have a common way of specifying the syntax for JSON based protocols in the document right there\u0027s nothing nowhere to put in description or semantics of what these properties are so you\u0027re still gonna have to have that separate to the structure of the object which is yeah so um we\u0027ve had some proposals on how to do that ways the JCR can be extended and we we\u0027ve talked about that to be honest that gets into a whole nother set of problems so kind of want to solve this problem first and then we can go on to how you deal with more of the semantic layer type things of a data model so I agree that that\u0027s a problem that may be a problem too large to swallow I mean if just to make sure I understand how are you ambitious envision this being used in specifications is that you would have a description of all the properties of an object which you need anyway so that people know what they\u0027re for and then that kind of information again but just on the syntax level in this form of this is the exact syntax if you want to validate against something better than prose right yes exactly we have so I have a draft you know some of the art app work there\u0027s a draft I should have put the the link in here it\u0027s our tap JCR or something which I actually took the our tap prose which are quite lengthy and there\u0027s a lot of very long examples in those in that RFC and I say well here you know these are very difficult to read actually because they\u0027re so long because that to be inclusive a lot of stuff here\u0027s the JCR for it the JCR is much more much more concise much shorter much easier to read so that\u0027s probably a pretty good example to go through and say okay this is what the intent is the intent is to be able to say this with the JCR the Jason\u0027s supposed to look like and here\u0027s the JCR to help you with you I feel hamburger so I\u0027ve done a few of these ii-i\u0027ve got a system that allows "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:13",
    "text": "me to go on my own sn1 schema language well when I was doing XML schema I wrote my own schema language and generated the XML schema from it because XML schema was so awful so I with my JSON schema I\u0027ve produced about eight protocols so far and I\u0027ve never once found the need to limit the range of an integer I think that we can get rid of 90% of your spec what I did see the other day I was reviewing I forget what struct it was it was the Tia using TLS in it applications and they have a JSON schema where all they do is they basically take adjacent message and give all the possible values of that message in JSON as an example and that actually provides a pretty good concrete definition of what the schema it what time do you have and what can go in there I\u0027ll see if I can find the link and put it in but I don\u0027t think that we need this complexity because unless you\u0027re doing a syntax where are you actually going to pack bytes together to get them to move them on the wire and Jason isn\u0027t that then if Jason only has a concept of an integer when I\u0027m writing code I only say whether it is int long or byte I never tell the compiler that oh this is a number between 0 and 45 the only things I ever tell it are the minimum possibly so if I don\u0027t need that express ability in a programming language why would I want it in a protocol scheme so mmm I would disagree I have run into cases where you didn\u0027t need to specify that in the protocol specification itself the other thing is and one of the things we do a lot with JCR is we override rules locally for test Suites so you say can you actually take the JCR override one portion of the rule set and say for this specific use case this number needs to be and the JCR allows you to do that so that\u0027s a very good example of why you would want to do that I [Music] I\u0027ve written a heck of a lot of web services specifications in XML and the only I\u0027ve considered it a bug in my protocols if I\u0027ve ever told somebody to use a number of items other than 0 1 or infinity I would say that the majority two use cases are that way but there are some that require you to have limits well you say require but III still tend to think of it as a bug so I ask rola um I guess I had a little more sympathy for false position before I read a shit too many i models and they seem to be full of constraints things can contain so um "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:13",
    "text": "so I fear we do you need out expressivity um you know the file on Martin\u0027s point you know this is like n puff 1 n plus 1 of these things so we\u0027re in serious danger of xkcd 9:27 and you know so the test for whether we\u0027re doing X he night went see you know 27 is who wants to consume this and so I guess my question is which protocols are we developing an IETF would have wished to consume this we wish to consume this because the answer is a lot then is a good idea if it\u0027s there\u0027s none this is a terrible idea finally the answer really needs to be I think more closer to infinity than zero one digit RFC number program just got worse Colin Perkins so I have no opinion on whether this is a good idea or not I would urge you if we do end up doing this to define it in a way that it\u0027s easily correctable out of the RFC\u0027s so we can write talking the runs of the RFC\u0027s and extracts these oh yeah so the the validator I wrote actually have some tooling in there to help with our co-authors but you can actually it you can put things in the ruleset itself so this this section goes here into this file no way you can actually put it into an IETF document rather easily some sort of prefix so it\u0027s easy to extract it from the RFC text without hello from the RC text itself okay yeah that\u0027s a good idea so does anybody have any thoughts on how this might be processed whether we should what path to the IETF is appropriate here I really was serious I mean like like who was this well I want to use it anybody I\u0027ve had I\u0027ve had people come up over the years and say yeah I would like to use this before I thought it was sure um yeah I guess I guess right this past years I would start by show of hands of who in this room thinks it would use this I was trying to freeform before we went to that I mean that\u0027s a pretty good question right and then if the answer that is like zero then we need to stop but if the answer that it\u0027s like actually positive then we can like discuss how we had a process so I\u0027m interested in splitting that just a hair farther to try and figure out whether there\u0027s people who want some sort of JSON schema language other than than yang and people who want this one a little bit I think that that\u0027s important so it can people who would use a JSON schema language other than yang in some protocol work going on at IETF can they or know of or know of work that would can they just go to the mic and tell us which work would possibly use this if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:16",
    "text": "you have something tell us - yeah like I said the are DEP stuff we are looking at putting routing information to our tab and that\u0027s going to get hairy pretty fast if I have to do it in prose so that\u0027s that\u0027s one of the cases where every time I want to write an extension to this I\u0027ve got to do something and it\u0027s becoming very difficult ok Richard Barnes so and without any knowledge of this draft or the prior art I just say that you know in doing acne we ran into where this sort of thing could have been helpful so had this been on the table we were doing that maybe you would likely have done something like this to results of that stuff peepers Nick um if this is a completely naive question you can send me off why is this different than all the draft h andrews json schema stuff you talking about the the actual thing called JSON schema yeah it\u0027s a different way of doing it it is attacking the same problem right the I don\u0027t want to speak for them because I don\u0027t really not them but their stuff doesn\u0027t solve your problem no it does it doesn\u0027t a different way it\u0027s it is essentially there so the way what they\u0027re doing is they\u0027re saying well our GDL is going to be jason itself so it\u0027s in my opinion much more tedious to read I\u0027ve actually been through some of it and in fact that\u0027s where I started now it\u0027s just like I can\u0027t deal with this it\u0027s much more analogous to although I think better than what you would consider xml schemas to xml they had they sent some email to the jason working group mailing list a couple of months ago or something and my reading of it was they weren\u0027t interested in coming to the IETF so I know paraphrase it more than welcome that that was my reading but but it it it doesn\u0027t solve the problem that you\u0027ve got as well as you would like and therefore you\u0027ve worked on this yeah and again that\u0027s fair okay we\u0027re gonna freeze the line mark not enhancer so nan Thompson again the question of whether someone would use a schema language is is definitely an interesting one there\u0027s a number of things out here I was hoping that Neil would get up and say that he he would have would not use this for J map but the the thing that worries me most is that we have a number of these things and why this particular one one of the things that this organization has a problem with to some extent although less than other places I\u0027ve I\u0027ve worked is the NIH problem and we have to be sensitive to the fact that there may be some other solutions out there that people are using and pretty widely used and maybe they don\u0027t work as well as we might like but that\u0027s okay because that\u0027s not really something that we need to worry about and just picking up some someone else\u0027s code and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:17",
    "text": "using it and running it might be a better approach you can stay mark it\u0027s okay well let the J map people sneak yet it\u0027s okay Adam Roach as an individual so just seeing the question of what would end up using JSON schemas I wanted to throw under the file that we have document right now going through that is basically equivalent to the links header or coop and they have they\u0027re using kuddle which is obviously designed for sea bore but they\u0027re using it to define JSON and I understand there\u0027s some design some desire to use it and that you can use cuddle for that kind of thing as well so yeah so they\u0027re there as far as I understand they\u0027re basically three competing things here because there\u0027s the schema work there\u0027s this and then those cuddle but so yes there\u0027s definitely pressure for a schema language Neil Jenkins so I\u0027ll try to be quick yes so forge a map which is protocol that has Jason descriptions in it I have had to look at various schema options before I haven\u0027t this one but I\u0027ve never actually found them to be that helpful in terms of our specification in terms of increasing clarity most of the difficulties with the specification was in is making sure we can understand what the properties are we don\u0027t have complex things of this where this must between 0 and 45 or things like that generally doesn\u0027t come up and I found that just being able to put in the type that you should expect this property along with the description in the same place it\u0027s a lot easier to understand than having to have them separate with the syntax in one place and there well you can kind of sort of do that with JCR via comments the like I said we had someone who proposed a document a doc annotation for being able to have more kind of describe things and be able to extract it for toolsets it\u0027s like kind of like like our dog or Java dog or something like that again I mean it\u0027s that\u0027s interesting and it\u0027d probably be that type of thing as long as it can get too far away it wouldn\u0027t be hard to do I just don\u0027t think it\u0027s central to the problem at the moment so but I I agree that that\u0027s a good that\u0027s a good next step mark Nottingham I have not read the draft I have use cases I think there are lots of times when we need to be able to specify Jason precisely and we really need a better way to do that it\u0027s not as bad as XML was but you know you can specify Jason in prose and I\u0027ve done it a fair amount but having a normal language to do that it would be really useful on the other hand anything that people can feed into a tool people will feed into a tool and that\u0027s when things "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:17",
    "text": "get really dangerous which you know we kind of hopefully learn from from XML and WI star and all that kind of fun in terms of extensibility in terms of the unintended consequences of mapping data structures into other languages and so forth and so on so that\u0027s that\u0027s why I think I\u0027m twitchy about this sort of thing is as there\u0027s we\u0027ve talked about this before and people have been twitchy about schema languages for Jason maybe you know we\u0027re talking about this pressure to do this maybe it is time to take on this kind of work just so we can have one and it tries to implement best practice rather than tripped over the same problems again and again yeah I\u0027m I I\u0027m fully sympathetic to what you\u0027re saying I mean having witnessed people do that with XML schema or they just it passed the XML schema validator and that\u0027s that\u0027s tricky it\u0027s a on the other hand I\u0027ve been down the other side where we in the JSON stuff where we don\u0027t have it and people just the pros said it\u0027s an array of strings and they had an array with a string that was comma separated values I\u0027m like what okay Oh IIIi got with a I understand how they got there but it wasn\u0027t what we want it\u0027s our problem that\u0027s all okay so we want to kind of get a sense of the room we\u0027ve had people supported in other people say we don\u0027t need this so let\u0027s go ahead and to a home of people that think this is a good idea in Andy and crew should keep going forward with it where this is this specific version of ask clarifying question because it was it was put forth if I remember the presentation that this is nearly done and so are we humming on taking this pretty much wholesale where we take humming on starting some interest in this area right that\u0027s a question I wanted to ask maybe there is a separate question about whether people interested in schema of some sort the first is do people see a need for another schema so let\u0027s do a home on that if you\u0027re in support of the ITF doing it right the Imam of some sort not necess one for Jason so hum down okay and if you think we shouldn\u0027t be focusing on that okay it\u0027s much weaker okay okay and then we want to ask whether or not people are supportive of this is the way forward again it\u0027s almost done it\u0027s been around a very long time so let\u0027s do a home for that the question is people that support this is the way forward right that we\u0027re not gonna take this excuse me oh that\u0027s a good question yeah how many people have read the draft oh yeah okay half a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:17",
    "text": "dozen at least which is pretty good for our crew these days yes because they they they\u0027ve been engaged in the discussion I guess yeah okay um I just wanted to clarify we already chartered work in this space so it\u0027s not what question isn\u0027t should we take on any work in this space the question is should we take on more work in the space so where is the chartered work on this space we will promptly send this there so in the Seaboard working group we have chartered workforce EDD l okay well that\u0027s perfectly fine the same we need more work in the space or there needs to be more advice on specific good point good point to raise yes we said we would do the second question about adopting this basically done piece of work or close to done piece of work as a document we move you know publishes their RFC as the solution to this this schema problem so we are going to take a hum on that ekor do you want to comment on if we want to just discuss the point you\u0027re raised because I kind of did sorry people want to discuss the point Joe just raised yeah okay let\u0027s discuss um yeah I mean if we already have chart of work in this area that we think applies to JSON specifications like publishing this is an ad sponsor thing now having two things developed by a group which I think we can all agree is not like central the use of JSON in art is like an extraordinarily confusing situation my guess here on this is that the cuddle specification it does cover JSON but it\u0027s mostly for sea bore it\u0027s for a very specific type of environment and most of the people who spoke to they would use this in their drafts would probably not be willing to use cuddle in the slightest and no Jose shaking his head here and thinking so okay so I guess we had the question do we want to do this and cuddle and is it this cuddle the generic solution on all those things I don\u0027t care what the answer is particularly the reason why I bring it up is that there have been one or two JSON specs who have used cuddle all right right and so I\u0027m not I\u0027m not saying it\u0027s better or worse I\u0027m just saying that there is some usage and there\u0027s lots of use JSON schema - yeah I have no position on the realm of technical merits of any of these specifications I\u0027m trying to avoid the ITF publishing in a bunch of confusing ways about specification there\u0027s conflict for doing essentially the same task some were 3d sponsorships on the third working group like that just seems like it like like like a really terrible like situation where like no we\u0027ll understand what I\u0027m supposed to use and like surely we can do better than that there is a good argument for saying produce a schema language that isn\u0027t tied to any one encoding which mine kind of is I mean you know you you don\u0027t need to tie the schema to one particular serialization that said the prom with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:20",
    "text": "using curdle is the you know the original sin of C bore which was they decided to create a new data model and not use the JSON data model which some of us told them they should do and that if they didn\u0027t we would never use their stuff every time here so I\u0027m just going to offer one more possibility with my C board working group hat on for the moment if we want to negotiate some mechanism where that work got pulled out of the C bar working group we could probably facilitate that discussion okay so I\u0027m not sure we\u0027re gonna get consensus in the room right now I think we need to go to the mailing list there\u0027s been good suggestions and we\u0027ll work with our ABS to explore some of those thanks folks Bernie has this I\u0027m not no sorry it\u0027s it\u0027s Marcus up first yeah sorry I misspoke sorry can anyone see me okay so I asked for a little time to talk about RFC 57 85 this 57 85 is the RFC that defines well-known your eyes has anybody read the best document accomplished hence no smattering okay next slide please all right thank you so yeah 50 75 was one on your eyes and when we put that together it was it was fairly straightforward the the use cases we were thinking about was we have people doing things like robots.txt or the w3c p3p policy for the site or do-not-track was coming along even way back then and you know people kept on having to do these things we call site wide minute in our next slide which are things about the website itself and indeed 57 85 says that more or less says is to facilitate discovery information on a site and it\u0027s for site wide policy information so it\u0027s when the site needs to speak about itself we didn\u0027t want people stomping all over other people\u0027s websites by standardizing your iPad\u0027s in in the root or somewhere else like w3c did w3c slash p3p XML we wanted one place to do that next slide and so and and that\u0027s based on you know what\u0027s accepted is is how we think about your eyes the architecture the world wide web Volume one which was published by the w3c technical architecture group sort of like the w3c siab it says that the Europe has are under the control of their authority in other words the administrator of the origin dictates the the structure of the path and and so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:22",
    "text": "need to respect that standard shouldn\u0027t encroach into that space if you want to understand more about why BCP 190 talks about that and and so this was the mentality we went into well-known your eyes was with was that they were a very limited carve out for this purpose for four standards to to define metadata for an origin so that the origin could talk about itself next slide in the meantime lots of other things have happened next oh you did yeah Monday morning so we\u0027ve had lots of IETF protocol starting to use HTTP as a substrate and we\u0027re currently in the HTTP working group working on BCP 56 bits which is how to use HTTP is the substrate successfully ITF protocols a common requirement of protocols using HTTP is shall I bootstrap what you are I should I use to start talking this protocol with with HTTP and unfortunately well-known your eyes seem like they\u0027re the answer to that problem you know it\u0027s it\u0027s you register something and you get a URI so that seems logical to go ahead and use that next slide but they weren\u0027t designed for that we didn\u0027t envision them as a protocol bootstrap or or a tunneling mechanism for new protocols on the Internet again you know the whole idea was this is a very limited carve out and we assumed that you know when we build protocols we say ok you\u0027ve got a host name no I need a URI so I\u0027ll use the well-known URI and in many cases we\u0027ve found that people assume that a host name corresponds to an administrative boundary that can be problematic and and so you\u0027re kind of buying a bit of trouble if you use one on URI like this again BCP 56 this talks about why this is not a great use of HTTP and indeed there are many very few use cases where you actually need to start with a host name rather than a folio or I in other words when we\u0027ve been talking about this with working groups the one you use well-known your eyes we\u0027ve discovered many times now that you just start with URI instead of starting with a host name next so the proposal in this Biss is to clarify the appropriate use section this this is a clarification I talked to a lot of people I don\u0027t think there are any new normative requirements in this Biss it\u0027s just explaining what\u0027s written there in relative shorthand a little more clearly folks who know my writing know that I like to write really briefly and I was this one was probably a little bit too brief talking to the ADEs we think this is really necessary because we\u0027ve had a few run-ins with working groups that have tried to use well-known your eyes and we\u0027ve had to walk them through what I just walked you through and say no this is an appropriate use police reconsider and that\u0027s awkward for them and it\u0027s not pleasant for anyone so we want to give people good advice about how to proceed using this and and so my question here I think this is the last slide is is 57 85 is ad sponsored what\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:24",
    "text": "the appropriate path forward for a bists of that document next slide just in case I think that\u0027s it okay no tepee okay so that\u0027s the proposal have you ever seriously considered the possibility that you\u0027re wrong I absolutely and as one of the original authors of HTTP I absolutely completely disagree the market has it right you have it wrong dot well-known is a really good way of corralling web services into one place because what that well known is actually is a replacement for portland\u0027s we\u0027ve run out of port numbers and dot well-known and SRB have become the equivalent port numbers and that is a very well architected very well led way of doing it to put everything in one place and what I would like to see is web services move away from using HTTP altogether so that we only use SRB prefixes as the web service ID specifier and then we can use not well-known if the to the prefix are not well-known the same you can then say in the protocols that have one label that says this is the web service I want to connect it you keep saying that this is the bad way to do it but I\u0027ve yet to see you provide one good architectural reason other than there is some language back when we didn\u0027t understand what you are eyes were saying that is a bad idea so we don\u0027t have consensus to use well-known in that fashion I think we\u0027d need to build consensus team I think a very consensus because people are doing it and the only reason they can\u0027t do it is because you are the person who\u0027s the Dedic is the expert and you squash or people trying to do it the way they want to do it PHP and the willing to enter into a dialogue with you I\u0027m not willing to have you scream at me I\u0027m inserting myself in the queue after tad umm I\u0027ll explain why at that point hi Ben Schwartz so from the dough working group we definitely had a lot of decision I\u0027m sure we\u0027re relatively high on the list of working groups that Mark is talking about and I I would say that we are likely to have more discussion on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:25",
    "text": "this topic at the the dough session this week I wouldn\u0027t say that within our working group that we really have a clear consensus on on how to handle what we are calling a discovery issue in our terminology so getting from the getting from the DNS model where DNS servers are identified usually by an IP address sometimes by a domain name to adapt that to an HTTP model where services have the URI so I think we don\u0027t have consensus there I think there\u0027s there\u0027s definitely going to be discussion about using that well-known in this way even in a way that certainly would conflict with 37 85 bits um and thank you you remind me there there\u0027s language in the current draft which says basically you know don\u0027t do this for those purposes however there is an escape hatch where if you have an IETF working group an Internet standard wants to do that and they don\u0027t have any other viable way to bootstrap their protocol with consultation with the ISG you can go ahead and have registration it\u0027s it\u0027s really to still allow that when it\u0027s there there\u0027s no other option we recognize sometimes you know that\u0027s necessary but not allowing it to become you know this this new forest of registrations that is growing all the time that\u0027s good to know okay Sam Wyler there\u0027s a solid difference between no other option and no better option and sometimes this might be the better option even if we could by stretching do something else right and and I think certainly that\u0027s a discussion that\u0027s interesting to have but we haven\u0027t had it yet ten-thirty I want a couple comment on two things one of which is mildly related phil was making it one which is I think actually a dispatch question one is we\u0027ve had historically several attempts to manage registrations and use that as a gatekeeping function to how people use to the specification that had been built in in the ITF this was particularly what we did over URI schemes for a very long time where there was a whole registration process that was somewhat onerous and heavyweight and our discovery was over time people stopped trying to go through the formal registration process and squatted the the result of that was after a bit of experience with the collisions which were which naturally occurred when people squat is that we get gave up on trying to use it as a gatekeeping function around purity and instead said hey the most important thing we can do for interoperability is to avoid collision and therefore our aim switched entirely in the later versions of this registration process to focus on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:25",
    "text": "avoiding collision rather than maintaining a lean and mean schema lean and mean scheme registry right I point this out for the possible parallels which might be drawn the other point I wanted to make here is 57 to 85 was written before PCP 190 but PCP 190 did not exactly incorporate it and and sorry it did well it mentions it but the purpose of the curve out and the and the sort of the implications of it I think are left in fifty seven eighty five I think as a as an item of coherence that when you consider updating it what you actually might want to consider is instead of updating this consolidating it into a BC point 190 bits rather than an RC 50 785 this by itself well is I think the point phil is making is actually true there is a disagreement on the usage of you arise here that\u0027s not about dot well-known as a mechanism but about the usage of fewer odds and tackling that more directly may result in something that\u0027s eventually more productive although I grant you that the conversation will be much harder in the short term I\u0027ve pointed out because that that would actually change I think what Dispatch did with this because it would actually suggest a scope change that I think would require a working group where an update to this particular section might not so I\u0027m really a sympathetic to what you were speaking about about opening registries up we\u0027ve done that in most of the web related registries the you know headers link relations so forth and so on and try to keep them as open as possible there are exceptions to that the the biggest one that comes to mind is methods and status codes CETIS codes is is a constraint space so that\u0027s an obvious one methods it\u0027s hard to articulate why we keep the method bar so high no I think I think you\u0027ve actually done that quite well in the past because the point that you\u0027ve made in the HTTP working group when people have wrong methods in is that this is actually an interoperability problem the more people use a new method that could be you yet with an old method and a new media type for example the less you\u0027re going to get interoperability among the the servers which are placed in front of a particular set of resources and applications so I think in in that case what you\u0027re talking about there is a different kind of constraint and that is the constraint in the protocol Mechanics for the generic server right and I think that the the question you have in front of you here is actually whether what you\u0027re dealing with here is a way of determining what protocol mechanics "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:25",
    "text": "apply that that\u0027s the port argument that that\u0027s being made or whether we\u0027re dealing with is in fact a bootstrapping method that starts with a well-known URI and retains the core protocol mechanics of HTTP okay there there\u0027s a real architectural difference between those two uses and that\u0027s why I think PCP 190 this is the right place to examine them I disagree with that because BCP 190 is about your eyes in general and and well known as specific to HTTP and and it really is about HTTP servers yes other schemes have opted into it but that\u0027s their decision it\u0027s really primarily HTTP I I think if any other URI scheme were to approach this problem and choose something else other than well-known the questions about why they made that choice would be quite pointed indeed perhaps I think so my assumption here after after talking to folks was that we just needed to clarify whatever the RFC number is that just disappear in this room 57 85 you know if we want to decide something else I think we really need to have a good look at it as a whole which to me says it\u0027s a working group and it really does need to be coordinated with the w3c at the very least because frankly this is their space more than it is our space this is how the web works so again I think that the point you were making earlier that other schemes have opted into well-known maybe saline so maybe we want to revisit that too as chair here I have some comments is Renault\u0027s an angel contributor this is the weirdest draft I\u0027ve ever dealt with I flew like the blue caterpillar and Alice in Wonderland I\u0027ve received multiple comments of people who feel bullied on it and are not willing to come to the microphone or send comments the list for the record in this case I wouldn\u0027t say this the right thing in all case I\u0027ve told those people that they need to find someone to bring their technical arguments forward to the list in one form or another for them to be considered in the consensus one technical argument that was open it\u0027s not quite a technical argument but one comment that came out of that discussion back and forth that I will raise here as a comment for the group to consider was in trying to understand the requirements that we have in this space and the use cases that are upsetting people and they\u0027re causing problem could we look back at all of the requests for these namespaces that we\u0027ve rejected and see if there\u0027s something common in them that we might be able to come up with a schema to address about that was one of the comments converts that makes sense as a comment um the resolution in all the cases has been you actually don\u0027t need one you can just do with it that\u0027s what they\u0027re asking for they\u0027re asking for just bring for what were the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:27",
    "text": "requests so we could look at why they thought they wanted to use them and see if there\u0027s a common question that we should perhaps address or not address but I and look I may not know enough to have pursued this conversation the right way but I think that\u0027s what they were asking for right the commonality I mean it\u0027s like Roli doe a couple of others and the common thread does seem to be well we\u0027re using HTTP we need to start with a URI oh look here\u0027s well-known your eyes and and then you know the ADEs I usually involve the ADEs when this comes up because it\u0027s a working group and I don\u0027t want to just do it as the expert and we talk through it and we come to a place where we realize you know you don\u0027t need to start with a hostname you can start with URI right so that the next sort of comments that I got I\u0027m Paul Hoffman here who didn\u0027t know about this meeting and is unfortunately can\u0027t come here because another meeting but he would like to make sure we had time to discuss this and and really work out what the consensus was and figure out that direction coming from him and then Carsten Borman proposed also things we need changes here and as proposed that inside the dot well-known perhaps we should make a discovery space where as a place where I\u0027m gonna poorly described this I\u0027m relaying somebody else\u0027s words but that we could that a website could configure into that place the information to tell you where the URL was that you went and used for the API you want it not the API in that space there\u0027s already a spec for that code house mater Aaron hammer Lahav and I did that which was on that host minute no I was one that it was just Aaron sorry the name of host - meta host awesome yeah okay that back and that is my list of bizarre comments that I don\u0027t know what to do with I just wanted to try to bring some external non IETF perspective on to why this is such a struggle in the real world no one knows what a URI is no one no one knows what a URI is and when weird so I\u0027m thinking about this from the perspective of the usage profiles for DNS over TLS if you\u0027re establishing a trust anchor right this is like your boots dropping from something that somebody understands you need to give them something to hang on to that they can understand and at the moment I would also argue that nobody knows what a DNS name is either but they think they know it at the NS name is better than they know what are your Heights and so the reason that we\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:27",
    "text": "having this struggle is because when people want to surface something to a user that a user can grab on to you what they what they settle on is a DNS name and if you tell them no no you have to settle on a URI then the user interface for that doesn\u0027t work or nothing shows you our eyes anymore our browsers don\u0027t even put the schema in the schema bar in some cases right I mean the some some browsers don\u0027t even show the URI at all they just show the title where the URL used to be unless you go up and you manually fiddle with it so none of that is exposed to the user and so what we\u0027re talking about is an anchor that\u0027s needed because it needs to be exposed to the user a URI is not a great match because we\u0027ve lost that battle so I\u0027m just trying to bring it an explanation to why people are trying to do the thing that you don\u0027t want them to do sure that makes a lot of sense Rondon wada I was introduced to dot well-known with Calvin car dev and your discovery mechanism is you have an email address and a password and you need to find the right server that okay took a while to understand how that work because documentation was with difficult to track through I\u0027m now in the same situation with Gemma where we have an email address and from an email address we have a right-hand side which is a DNS name and from that we do a serve will come assuming that stacks support which helps them don\u0027t it\u0027s dinner so virtually people try to solve that that\u0027s a lot of places you can\u0027t even do a server code lookup but from that you get a host name a report you don\u0027t get the or I if we define yet another way of doing that lookup that\u0027s different from how Cal Devon Carter work then someone who\u0027s implementing protocols is going to have yet another thing they need to understand to even get to the point of doing a discovery lookup so if we\u0027d say we can\u0027t use this discovery mechanism then we\u0027re going to start having defining yet another xkcd 927 discovery mechanism I\u0027m not sure that\u0027s Oh all I want to be able to do is that given a web service for example calm and the web service has prefix foo I want to be able to connect to that web service by DNS discovery with no additional information given that the host may be running more than webs one web service on the other end now right now there is no record that allows me to do that I think that that is an entirely rational requirement the way that I sold it and will continue to solve it in my protocols is that if I have fool as my SRV prefix I got to go to dot well-known dot foo that means that you don\u0027t need a plethora of registries because you only "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:27",
    "text": "actually need one registry per protocol for per web service you know the SRV prefix can be the same as the well-known prefix I think that that is an entirely reasonably well argued architecture now as to the boolean question I really think that mark you should step down as the expert because when I came with this proposal I was really nice the aggression that you may been hearing earlier it was frightened because of the bullying I felt from you you first of all told me that this is an absolutely crazy thing to do that you mustn\u0027t do it this way and it is not just I also picking picking who the experts is is not in the scope of this working group there\u0027s definitely an ad thing and I would encourage people to resolve that with 80s in the most professional way we cantle flying fees we have to close the mic after this you last two guys okay we need to move on Eric you thank you Jim eats we had thinking of us a long one clinical called the little-known brain no known services record take I\u0027m sorry I can\u0027t hear you sorry we had a meatiness a long long time ago the way only services record tape and that was deprecated about 25 years ago because yeah by the idea so I didn\u0027t understand Bethel is coming from okay last row I feeling I just want to for the record note that not only was Mark rational in that conversation but the only doesn\u0027t the only disagreement was whether all of these ports should exist in the top of the dot well-known space or if there should be some intervening label for example PL H so it me dot well-known /ph slash whatever you want to do that\u0027s okay it\u0027s reserving all infinite names of every port in the dog well my own space just because you have an idea that\u0027s not okay and it\u0027s perfectly reasonable given the space of the draft for Bart to make that comment and there\u0027s no reason you know it wasn\u0027t so hey you just okay so it\u0027s it\u0027s fairly opening okay I like to hear that for change okay it sounds to me a lot like we have work to do here I can take hums if we think that that\u0027s necessary but I think we can save some time by saying this sounds also like something that needs a mini working group charter like we\u0027re heading in that direction and it\u0027s that serious and it needs that level of input so do you want to take a home on that or do you just want to roll with that idea and say let\u0027s talk charter I think it\u0027s pretty clear that it\u0027s probably not AG sponsors I think you\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:27",
    "text": "correct so so as the expert I\u0027m gonna continue to apply the document is written in consultation with area directors if we want to change that that\u0027s a conversation we should have I would just ask that we do involves the w3c in that discussion certainly um so do you want to start working on charters do you help with you want solicit people for this I\u0027m not the one who wants to change this okay okay he he has a very strong point there the rules are what they are and he\u0027s not the guy who wants to change this so I\u0027m show of hands of people who would be willing to participate in a working group to change this okay well yes Ted I know that this is an interesting question isn\u0027t it I mean I I don\u0027t want to predict the outcome you know I\u0027m trying to be quite flexible it\u0027s entirely possible at the moment it looks that there is at least disagreement about established consensus but it\u0027s not clear whether where the consensus will land at the answer right Ted Hardy a clarifying point earlier I made a proposal that said that if there needed to be a clarification here the clarification was actually on the BCP 190 Biss side rather than on this side and I believe that there may be an appetite to consider both and again agree with Mark that you know there are other non IETF folks in both the WZ and what working group that would be very very interested to know we were taking up that work but I would like to suggest that if we are considering this that we consider both on the table for them yeah I think it needs to be both that\u0027s open to the scope of this right I mean and the working group would decide what got changed is that yeah okay okay so let me suggest that people who are interested in drafting a charter for this should email art - AG\u0027s at AIT of the talk and then we\u0027ll assemble a mini group and we\u0027ll start from there yeah sure I am put into whatever we want so tell me how much time I have and now for something completely different but equally equal consensus on it I\u0027m sure where we start here so we\u0027ve been doing all this VoIP stuff for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:28",
    "text": "roughly twenty years and we have a bunch of stuff that works we have some problems that have accumulated over a long periods of time that are quite difficult to solve with some of the choices we\u0027ve made and we have some sets of requirements that been floating around for a fair amount of time that we we don\u0027t really know how to reasonably meet in some of our existing protocols and I\u0027m proposing that it would be a good idea to step back and take a blank sheet of paper look at how would we do this if we could do it any way we wanted given what\u0027s changed in the network what would we do differently how would we try and do something now once a blank sheet of paper I mean that from an abstract how we think about it what we look at point of view anything is up for change nothing sacred I would hope of course that as we did that that eventually we would figure out ways to go well oh those parts there are good ideas and actually we can patch them into what we have now if we don\u0027t need to change things so there\u0027s a fair amount of what we would need to decide to change or not I wrote a draft that has some very random ideas about various things that we could we could do quite differently and some of the problems that that that might solve I\u0027m going to talk about a couple of those today but what I really want to motivate is getting some people perhaps some new people that had different networking technologies as well to to come in and think about what we would need to do differently to bring this all together so one of the questions uh you know you know things that we can do and can\u0027t do that have come up right what are what are the goals were the requirements this does not just change it to make it architecture pure or something like that I don\u0027t care much about architectural purity as people know the the you know some of the problems that we\u0027ve had and all hit these that a bunch different levels with with things like some of these things we can just simplify a lot and make much faster and easier to implement some of them we can make more flexible so they work better some of them we can do other things we\u0027ve never really been able to deal with ways where we had cascaded media very well talk about that a couple slides we have not had ways where we could deal with firewalls that had asymmetric media properties so that we could perhaps send UDP out through a firewall but we couldn\u0027t get UDP in through that firewall so we needed to use TCP for incoming data or incoming media but UDP out or that type of thing okay our Indian encryption story we we have a so in in most of our deployments stated in the detail SS RTP or the s des mechanisms are used as a sort of hop too hot in the sense between an endpoint and a mixing bridge or something in the cloud like that a relay of some sort or an SBC and then on to the the far end endpoint but the Indian media perks trying to address that at some level but how do we do that by end default how would we do that cleaner and better in in a very generic environment i\u0027m pluggable at every level I mean I think we\u0027re seeing more and more properties "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:28",
    "text": "where we had very pluggable congestion schemes encryption schemes great outpatient schemes pluggable codecs that if we could module eyes this better than we had in the past there\u0027s things like our overall model with SDP there are some big problems that we\u0027ve never solved an SDP things like that have become more and more relevant as we move away from Hardware codecs to software codecs where you might have a device that it could do two big screens or four slightly medium screens or 16 other ones or an infinite number of other possibilities we have no way to represent that SDP and you know SDP is a very difficult thing to upgrade it has no option in it to say this is a mandatory to understand attribute like Jonathan let\u0027s point this out to me that is just that makes it very difficult to do so next like I talked about a couple examples are stun this is an example of something that I think we could greatly simplify assuming some of the stuff that\u0027s likely to happen going forward so we use stun for about three different things we use it to find the IP address the outside of the nap we use it to do connectivity checks in ice and we use it to do ongoing consent of media sessions in WebRTC and none of these properties are what it was originally designed for much of what\u0027s in it to actually do it\u0027s things like changing IP addresses and changing ports of where the answers and responses come from none of that\u0027s used anymore the bulk of it so don\u0027t you can imagine like for the first use of this you could define a new protocol that was you know stun to over quick that basically you connect the server it sends you back the IP address and that\u0027s it there is no requests there and the response is just you know the address and port that you came from I mean that\u0027s really much easier to understand and implement and use than many other things and the problem is it\u0027s not just it\u0027s not like really a stun service that hard to write it\u0027s that when you go and talk to a developer and say you need to implement this whole spec with all this crazy shit in it just so you can find out your IP address they go you guys are batshit crazy why would I do that just to do that one thing and you know it\u0027s a good question so next time another thing that I think is very interesting for us to look at changing and this goes at some level to changing RTP is what would it take to reorganize not the semantic information we put in RTP but more the syntax of how we arrange it and where we put it in RTP to allow us to really work well with these ICN networks these ICN networks allow a client to express interest up to some sort of - up towards an SFU but it might be intercepted along the way by an IC an aware router of some sort at various different levels that can aggregate that and make it so that the SFU only need to send one copy of the media across the land link and then this branch office ICN aware router distributed it to multiple clients so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:28",
    "text": "it\u0027s a similar thing that goodwill multicast did but it might be much more deployable in that you don\u0027t need you know your network the telcos network the data centers network the AWS network to support multicast in a way that works together so this is one of the areas to where I think that if we started with a blank sheet of paper and figured out what we really wanted here we might suddenly notice that Oh actually if we were willing to put a very specific header in the RTP header extension we could put this into our teepee with no g8 and no changes to the existing RTP I think it\u0027s easier to think about it from blank sheet of paper point of view next slide skip this one skip it yeah similarly with rearranging things I mean more and more we\u0027re getting to devices that can do quite fast processing on packets off off cards you know into something and sometimes it\u0027s it\u0027s distributed very much on the machine in the same way that we\u0027re seeing a lot of computation moving from general-purpose CPUs onto GPUs and and back and forth between those two we\u0027re also seeing computation starting to move on to processors on the actual NIC cards we also have the it\u0027s you know type of environment where even if it is still happening on a main sort of general purpose CPU there\u0027s very efficient ways to do it using a lot of these vector processing techniques but we\u0027ve probably arranged our our packets I mean RTP was designed in a way was never thinking about this type of stuff is probably not ideal for it so we should explore what we need to take to use these maybe the answer be nothing you can actually do it on the given stuff but when we look at the type of throughputs that we\u0027re getting on these systems doing other things this FD io is a software based router purely software running on general-purpose computer and it\u0027s it\u0027s getting a terabit per second ok that\u0027s like a million HD video streams and I you know you guys can all you know what your your s F use and MC use do on the number of concurrent video streams it supports but you know I\u0027m imagining you\u0027re several zeros off a million so I think that this is the type of thing we could ask like why can\u0027t we have not a 2x improvement in performance but you know 800 X improvement in performance why are they\u0027re so much better than our so that again would go to to rethinking about this next slide there\u0027s other things where we may have had constraints that are no longer really key anymore so turns a good example of this um turn for a variety of reasons we made very restrictive how you have to install permissions in a certain way so that you can get before you can receive traffic from other people you have to say the address you\u0027re expecting the traffic from basically and this was to preserve you know it took to reduce concerns and certain enterprise firewalls so they had able and it that type of thing there are now so many different ways that you can make inbound relays and run servers "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:28",
    "text": "inside a firewall and get data outside a firewall I think this this is really no longer an a design attribute we needed to have so if we remove that design attribute or limit it or reduce what type of things it works for you know slack just loosen it up a little bit we can reduce the amount of call set-up time it takes to bring up the call we can work in a few more cases and we can make it bunch of our stuff easier and we could define a turn again if we decide turn over quick we could probably make it so that a turn implementation was as simple as like you connect to it it tells you the public address you should get used for it and anytime a quick connection comes to that public address any streams there get mirrored into some different screens coming down to you I mean it could be a very simple spec in a very simple implementation so it might be another thing where we have constraints that can relax on this next slide so the other thing I want to talk about and this really speaks to replacing STP STP was very much I was gonna say it was designed who knows when it was hatched I don\u0027t know but it\u0027s you know STP and in the way we talk about it ITF is a you know Alice is talking to Bob and it\u0027s going through some proxies and there\u0027s two state machines two controllers on either end that are trying to synchronize what they\u0027re doing to their media stacks in this offer answer form okay and this is an awful model for what we actually deploy in the real world nearly every deployment whether you\u0027re talking about large cloud conferencing services or whether you\u0027re talking about enterprise PBX is whether you\u0027re talking about large networks have lots of SPC\u0027s in them there\u0027s generally a controller for the call that\u0027s trying to do these poke through this bizarre process of pretending it\u0027s doing off or answer with all the endpoints so that it can get these three clients a B and C so they can all talk to each other through the SFU okay and it has to offer answer to them and there\u0027s like there\u0027s a state machine in a a state machine and B and C and then a controller has a state machine for a B and C and it\u0027s trying to magically causes all those states to align in in a way that\u0027s happy so a better way to do this would be to to just fully embrace this type of architecture and how the controller be able to understand that the capabilities and properties of all these clients and then be able to tell them just do this okay and bring that up so you know this is this is an area where I think we could have a design that fit much better with what we\u0027re actually deploying and made a lot of our existing problems go away also at the same time I think we could go through SDP and I recently took the normative dependencies of the web RTC document so I took the w3c web or CDA document and all of its normative dependencies and then recursively down its Norman dependencies but I stayed just in the stuff that was media or SDP I I carved out you know crypto security protocols like TCP etc okay and this is basically the mass of stuff you need to understand to understand the media stack "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:28",
    "text": "in WebRTC and it\u0027s a it\u0027s 4,800 pages okay and you just wonder do we really need all of that is there a lot of stuff that we could just leave behind that that we could simplify and have in a more generic way as we understand you know how the codec Asics change how software video codecs have changed a lot of the newer ones are just much easier to negotiate than some of the older ones yet we\u0027re still using the older negotiation mechanisms deal with them so I think there\u0027s a lot of simplicity that could happen with some discussions in how to replace that next level back a slide okay I don\u0027t wanna show that slide do not look in the agenda and go find that slide so I think with that I\u0027m just going to stop right there I am interested in in doing is this is a yeah sure yeah you know I\u0027m interested in finding if there\u0027s people who are interested in working on this various on various parts of this project are various things and trying to figure out a way that we would evolve this conversation a little bit and then decide if there was some specific proposals that we wanted to bring forward to various working groups in the IDF very short Mike line I read the document and you started your your presentation by saying you\u0027re not interested in the architecture but basically you\u0027re talking about architecture because the IDF we try to do building blocks like this in other work in other word groups like media control or whatever to decompose and do whatever and there was never a good view of everything and I think it\u0027s maybe if you want to do it and I was reading a document and there\u0027s things like hop by hop encryption but what about the hops really so it\u0027s not kill you have to have some architecture as part of the definition before you can start with solution the other point I want to make is that it may be also a good opportunity because today for transporting media there are two metal metal metal to do that once over RTP and run over HTTP for the streaming in live streaming basically the last one and I think it may be a good time to see if we can do some convergence on the in that space because today it\u0027s it\u0027s problem two service provider to provide IPTV and other services that they have to have two different mechanism to distribute the media itself and I\u0027m willing to work on that of course agree yeah I\u0027ve heard that from some from several days my expose after Harold sorry and like really quickly please hi I\u0027m Colin Perkins I\u0027m sure you\u0027re surprised to find me at the microphone obviously the network has changed significantly since we designed RTP an SDP and all the rest of us but the network we have today isn\u0027t the network we had in the mid nineteen nineties we have added a bunch of things to try and correct some of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:28",
    "text": "correct follow up and address some of those changes some things we cannot change obviously any critical that is 25 years old has a bunch of crafts in it it was no surprise that you know revisiting some of these decisions may make sense I don\u0027t know we may just set ourselves up for the next round of things which will accumulate craft for the next 25 years one of the things we time please one of the things we did when we were originally designed these protocols was consider try to make a general architecture you\u0027re coming from a particular set of use cases and we originally considered a much broader set of use cases people have you know some extent we succeeded to some extent we failed people deployed applications using some of those other use cases and based on some of those other use cases and some of them are very widely deployed and very widely used today if we\u0027re going to redesign the stack we should think about whether we want to solve this specific problem or whether it is worth trying to address the broader problem and we should understand the scope we are addressing a lot of the things I think you\u0027re discussing our quick issues rather than media issues you know the piss piss stuff is something that should give us quick rather than for media over quickly and I think also you are proposing unique solutions to things which I suspect the web folks have addressed and we should perhaps consider lining bets with the web architecture for some of these issues a hundred percent agree with everything you said thank you before health starts modern has graciously given us a few minutes of their time so Bernie you\u0027re still going to get your slide I know all this jump when whist web RTC we started out trying to create the complete solution to a suit of problems the result was that we assembled technologies some of which where had incredibly stupid decisions made for solving this set of problems I give you exhibit a is offer answer Exhibit B is the two-way nature of media of media sections in STP we do need to get away from the consequences and the costs of those stupid decisions we I do believe that we cannot do this by making "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:30",
    "text": "an overall plan to rip out everything and replace it so I disagree with your approach I haven\u0027t this gameis with a few of your particular suggestions for technology is to but that\u0027s the main thing is I disagree with your approach because I think we need to think in terms again of components that can be slotted into appropriate places and interfaces that let us stop binding things together in in inappropriate ways so that when people say our solution does not fit offer answer well offer answer is a tool that can be ripped out because there are well-defined interfaces between the components I\u0027m sorry that we lost track of that in the grand unified scheme that was web RTC but I think we should get back to that place Harold just one question for you or not yeah I get I get how you disagree with approach do you think the you\u0027re proposing will come out with a different result than the approach I\u0027m doing or they both lead to the same point and we just get there slightly different ways I suspect that their overall approach will if followed if anyone follows lead to something that we can deploy in seven years from now I suspect that a componentized approach will lead to a number of systems with different different properties some of us who are slight improvements somewhere which are large improvements that will be deployed over the course of those seven years okay after javis we have to wrap up here and then you can sue this Joe Hildebrand has Jever relay this came in sort of within the latency window of your having cut the lines so this is from John cleansin he says having just on a slightly similar analysis for the DNS RFC eight three to four at what point do you expect to think about what it would take to get any improvements you suggest deployed some of these changes employ rather significant transitions where would you like to go from here John I to fully understand what you\u0027re saying and I always think about paths to deployment this is certainly not far enough along to to possibly know an answer to that yet and and I mean Harold suggested more or less the same thing with this that whatever is done on this will be totally and completely unplayable so where would you like to go from here I would like so so my preference would be to figure out a list is fine with me I\u0027ve dispatched but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:30",
    "text": "I\u0027d like to know a place where people who want to discuss this should continue discussing it that I think is the only thing and I don\u0027t care if you don\u0027t want to discuss it I still want to know where I can continue discussing you can\u0027t stop me works for me Adam I wanted to give an update on a cluster t-38 if you want to do that otherwise Bernie\u0027s up yeah thanks my slide up there it\u0027s here I just wanted to highlight for everyone that we\u0027re getting close so cluster 238 if people aren\u0027t familiar with is this giant wad of almost 50 documents that have tangled web of interdependencies that have been hanging around in the RFC editor queue waiting for everything to get back you know finished up and into the queue behind it so they can publish this entire thing most of which is WebRTC but there\u0027s also other media related things in there I wanted to highlight for everyone that were really close to the end of this in case people are like waiting for these documents to pop out we actually have only 11 things at the moment that are still like not in the RFC editor queue of them only for the four at the bottom here are actually still in working groups the rest have already entered like the either IETF last call or IES G processing so this should be popping out sometime really soon in case you\u0027re paying attention just one make sure that everyone was aware of what\u0027s going on there thanks thanks there are three new buffs this week there are seven working groups Bernese up why I\u0027m trying to fly through this real fast yeah one second I\u0027m bringing it over we I did it was a very was half a sentence get my player in the right place hi everybody I\u0027m Bernie who Nisan I\u0027m about to tell you in five minutes what about Apple mystique encryption email messaging what oh she takes like half an hour to an hour to explain so I give my best next slide so the whole motivation comes from that the communication is always like listen in to my people you don\u0027t want to have our conversations known so that\u0027s why we aim to make all the communication email chat private by default so as you know we have already good tools for privacy I Cappy GPO PGP and others but our users can\u0027t use them they are just unable to use them like I talk about all three users like your grandma or it just can\u0027t use them if you don\u0027t need to fix this usability challenge by automation you need not just good privacy we need easy privacy next slide please so you already build up some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:30",
    "text": "architecture an architecture consists of several building blocks you will see the next slide then the main thing is direct xre yeah yeah so we\u0027ll use existing standards and RFC\u0027s whenever they are possible and it can be applied to the case but there are still some pieces missing and we intend to document these missing pieces in our seas now next book so it is like the whole picture of the missing pieces so the green stuff on the left upper corner is already out it\u0027s a whole description of the system and how it works then it goes further to email like a new message formats and how this process is working like automatically generation of key is adding the keys and so on intend to add also like a mapping to s mine the same to XMPP and for that we need kind of an easy way to establish trust like comparing fingerprints is not so easy so we have a draft that is like mapping the fingerprints into trust words we\u0027ll hear more about this tomorrow at the same time in a second dispatch and then we have also like a trust rating system like the user can easily figure out where these communications encrypted whether it\u0027s clear that the other guy is the one I want to talk to and you have a mapping into user interface symbols and colors of distrust State City so user can easily understand its kind of semaphore semantics and the whole bunch the blue area is synchronization of keys between devices so the users have keys on one device and received email on the other device and County cryptic so we need to share these keys among devices and when you need to do it securely and from there we can also develop some calendar and contact things we see which is not in focus at moment so this is in really short how the whole architecture works next like this so the IDF we could get some help like in my message formats in public fee synchronization based protocols mapping your eye schemes and for example creating IANA registries to support trusted establishment and more things next slide for those of you who want to know how this works we make a small demonstration in Rome Waterloo on Wednesday 10:30 so we can also ask there are some more questions and discuss the things and so on next slide okay that was it okay so that was basically two proposed or cool to tell you what\u0027s going on and if there are any questions please okay so this will be this is being largely presented in more detail at sec dispatch and will be handled properly through there we included it in art area because email is our area and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:31",
    "text": "we should be aware of the work that\u0027s going on so if more questions are probably come up insect dispatch than here we\u0027re actually out of time well thank you modern for the extra five minutes and we are adjourned we\u0027ll see you in Montreal blue sheets bloosh the other blue sheet is where we have only one up here "
  }
]