[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:40",
    "text": "use Yeah. Yeah. Cappuccino that. Hello? Okay. That works. So, yeah, about to start with the MPLS session. Could you please close or someone close a door, Okay. So welcome, to MPLS. In Prague. We have one session only today for 1 a half hours. Note well. Well, known, I guess,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "so blue sheets. So those will be automatically created as soon as you, log in Please make sure that you use, the client also, if you are on-site for queuing and asking questions and stuff like that. And also for tracking that you are basically participating in the MPLS session minute taking, who's taking minutes? This is Tarek, and I will be taking minutes. Nick, Okay. Thank you very much. Yeah, session agenda materials and so on everything is on the data tracker we have also an MPLS, a Wiki and a guitar with information, Agenda. So we have, like, 10 minutes for status after date and agenda bashing, and then a couple of presentations. I think it's 6 altogether. And as far as I remember, we have also a bit of time left. So let's see how we go through the agenda. Yep. Yep. So we have, in terms of aratus, we have, 1 arata for RC4568 section 3. Bye. And another one for RCAT29. So I'm not going to read all the text and stuff you can do it on your own if you want. None liaisons from our 2 MPLS. There's one, from ITU t New offices are all so none. We have, one document in the editors you and, 3 documents in ISG. We have new working group documents,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:06",
    "text": "We have several oh, that's not readable. Several, updated working group documents, documents, here which are marked in blue are basically on our agenda. Yeah, Yeah. Document status, couple of documents, and with a with a current status, basically, this Yeah. Yeah. And we have also non, documents, which are being expired at some moment. Yeah. Hang on. And we have, your working group chat. So they'll come Agent. So that's from my side. So I think next is, or do you have any comments or taric comments I I did want to take, a minute to think Loha Anderson, for being a a valuable chair at MPLS for more than more than 20 years, I know, and a a a long, list of contributions Thanks, Laura. Yeah. Thank you also from my side. And he is also being a great mentor to So thanks, Laura. So next is I just wanted the second to to talk in Terex suggestion Again, I think we should all be really thankful to law. For It's not for a service. And the work group chair for so many years."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:07",
    "text": "Okay. Yep. Hello, everyone. I'm Charlene from Ziti. This presentation is for, SPP picking for SMPR's past segment. This draft has been presented in Iekf109. And one, searching this is a third time for me to presented this draft. Next slide, please. Past segment to with MPS data playing is defined in, dropped the IT of spring NPL's past segment. That job to is in ISD valuation status. The past segment is defined to uniquely identify and Sam Pia is pass. On the egress nodes of the past. Past segment, is to the, single label. That is assigned from the segmenter routing local block. Of the US nodes of an MPL's car. Past segment is to be learned by owning the egress doubt and the ingress note of the associated pass. The intermediate nodes of the past were not light. NASA Slack is. This is a recap of this draft this job that defines 3, as we think target, fact, subtletovs, for past segment. Corresponding in the application scenarios, a past segment. Past the amendment can be used to admit identify SIMPO's policy, SMPLs can either pass"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "or SMPL's statement list. The sweet package fact, subtovies are mature exclus it. And they wouldn't be present in why I was speaking message. Simultaneously. That's the slide piece. This slide, it was chase, format after SMPL's policies, past segment, the sub q An SLA policy can be identified through the 2 poll head end. Color and endpoint So this up TV has also the 3 fields. As to the egress node, the egress node can't use the 3 fields and received the past segment. To validate the control plan to forwarding plays, synchronization That's the slide piece. This is the 2nd sub q v. As I am peers, candida passed has a game in the sack. Up to your V. Candidate passed can be identified through the 2 poll Helen, color, end points, pathochology, Originator and, disciplinary. So this up to you, we has also the 6 fields. And then you guys know they can't use the 60 fields and then receive the passing event. To do the validation. That's the slam piece. This is the 3rd fax up to UV. Second, the list can be identified through the 2 poll. Head and color. And the point protocol origin, originator, discriminator, and the second list ID This up to me has also the 7 fields, fields, fields And then the egress node, they can use the 7 fields and receive the pass them and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "to do validation. And also notes that If past segment is used to identify a multiple segmentalist, Then, multiple That's the message is attack effect, tag effect, tag effect, how could affect Tov subtov. Should be sent That's the slide, please. With the progress of, as a, job to IETF screen, plus payment, they also think, this document is ready for working group adoption. So we ask chairs to consider it. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you. I was just wondering. You said with with the progress of the spring draft do you know precisely what is the progress of the spring after? Is it progressed through working group last call? Is it, implemented? What do you know? That job to is in ISC evaluation. And A segment has already been remanded by particle vendors, Cool. Yeah. Sorry. I'm the officer of the, past segment. Draft. So now it have a pass the ISG evaluation. So it's worthy. Yeah. It's going to publisher has, I've seen soul Thank you. I'm gonna ask you to do 2 things. 1, Tell us who you are. Oh, this is from China Mobile. Thank you. And next time, So right now, next time, please use the Oh, sorry. Again, I I got it. 17,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "So no one else in the queue. I think So, yeah, your request is noted, the chairs when a, sort themselves out will, will look at getting, either an adoption poll for this or telling you why not. Okay. Thank you. Sorry. I kind of lost my place in this up to put myself in the queue. Andrew here. Rooting ID. Just a note on the MPLS segment stuff, it's being passed through to the IASG, but it is not yet telechatted. It has not actually passed through the IESG. Jim can possibly comment on what when the telechat j will come, but, yeah, I just wanted to correct back but it is with the IESG at the moment. Thank you, Andrea. And, just to prove that eighties are consistent, and is also not in the queue. Yes. I am not in the queue. I also had trouble with the app obviously, we need some training as ADs. Yeah, I just wanted to comment on the same thing just just to reiterate what, Andrew had said. I've actually put the, part segment document onto the next tele chat. So it's it's it's there, but it's certainly not approved as of yet. But it is on the next telechat. Yeah. Bruno, I'll Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "Did it shut end of, end of November? Okay. I think now it's up to you. Good afternoon, everyone. My name is Rakes Gandhi and, I'm presenting this draft on an encapsulation of a stamp. For, to the wire in MPLS Networks. On behalf of the courses listed here. Next this agenda is, we'll go over the requirements and the So scope of the draft, and, review of the summary, of the procedure. Will discuss, some comments that we have received and the next steps. Next slide. So the requirements, that this drop addresses is basically, a stamp a test packet and cancellation for MPLS, FTP. So the wires, and, they're basically, that gets needs to follow the same ECMP part for performance measurement. With rate sharing as the data traffic so using the same MPLS encapsulation with data traffic, with or without IP header. That is also, if you sent over a a control channel like VCCV or OEM, then, the package would need to be demultiplex as well. The scope, how to drop his stamp, the RFC 8762. That's came out from IPP And Working Group and the Stand vaccines as well. The DLVs in, 8972. It's P2P, right now. So the wires and the LSPs. We'll discuss about the LSPs. It's not in the top to to be added. But then we have a slide on it. For now, our top scope is the VCCV capability signal. Next slide, please. So just the recap of the, stamp, apology we have a sender. We have a reflector on other side. Test packets to capture T1 and T2 timestamps in the forward direction."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "And deploy test packets to capture time stamps t3 and t4 in the reverse direction. Basically, we are pseudo wire, between 2 PE nodes, and they act as sender and reflector for the stamp tickets. So this is the, basically, the the the stage for the the protocol, the accidents, since Next slide. So some of the example use cases that we are looking at are the data traffic for the studio wire and LSPs. So we have examples for data traffic using IP header, and we believe the stamp test format 1 that we will our look. That has IPL UDP header is appropriate for it. For the ECMP and freight sharing reasons. And we have other examples where, data traffic that does not use IP address. We have a a stamp packets for me too that does not use IPUDP header. Is appropriate for it, for the same performance measurement and, for ECMP and, the freight sharing reasons. Next slide is. So, there is a RFC 508 file. This is is basically, applied to the stamp test packets. It has 3 types defined for control channels, first one being the in band, the a control channel with gas, and, it doesn't have the UDP header and, we have 2 stamp, gas channels, that we are defining in this trap. The second, type 2, it's the the the doctor alert option. We don't support that. We have slide on it for the explanation. There is type 3, which is the TTL expiry, TTL 1, use case, that applied to both the permit 1 and permit 2 use cases, and we'll go over there. Next slide. So this is, a format 1. We looked at that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "the data example use cases with data. We also looked at various CC ties. So this one is format 1. Where, stamp back as carried, the same, MPLS label stack as the pseudo wire with TTL 1 for the sugar wire label to point the packet on the reflector. In this case because it carries the IP header, we have ipv4ipv6 gas channel types. Next, And this is a reflector packet, exact same idea with label stack and sugar wire in the reverse direction. Again, same, IP, report IPV 6 gas types. Next slide. This is for me to wear gets, does not have IPUDP header again, idea is the same. We use TTL 1, based method. But in this case, we have a gas channel defined for stem. This one is for the sender side. That's added, right after the label stack. And as you see, there's not UDP handed Next slide. This and this is the same packet, on the reflector side, sending sent towards the sender. The difference here is that, that there is a different gas channel for the reflector, and we'll look at it, why why we had 2 gas channels on the next slide. So in the stamp, when we have IDP, UDP header, We have different, the destination ports. And based on that, we can tell the is this a sender packet or reflector packet but when we don't have IPTV header, we use the gas type. To tell that this is a sender packet 2nd, So this is why we are, requesting to INA allocation for the gas type, We puts time. Next slide, please. So there were, a good review comments on the mailing list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "and, thought it would be a good idea just to, summarize the comments and, what we are going to do about it. So first comment was, what is the use case for the gas tight, without IPDP header case. So there are a bunch of, should the wires, where, we we listed them here. Where we don't have a a data packet that carry IP header. So, this is for face sharing and for for whomever's measurement over CMP. We believe that form a 2 is appropriate for it for them. There is other use cases like, which CV at OEM, where we can use the different, that the the gas type for the stamp to demultiplex the channel. Yeah. Like, we have done this for BFS. It's not something new. We're trying. The second comment, this is not in the draft. This is, discussed in the mailing list. Why not include MPLS, LSPs and LSPs, uh-uh, why just limit it to the pseudo wire? And, we think it's a good idea, and, we would also include this in the next revision. Basically, idea is the same. Now you don't have a super wide label. You have a, another label And we use the same scheme as TTL 1 when we are using gas. It not using gas, then it's just just the standard IP UDP. And then, your point is based on the UDP So it's just a basic, PLS encapsulation in that case. Next slide, please. Another comment was that, why not receive CV type 2? Is not supported. It's not in the draft. It's why not? So if you if you see the text from rsc5085, It says if you if you're adding another label on the label stack, like router alert label. In this case, it can result in different safety path. And the goal of the PM, performance measurement is to measure the ACMP park. Great sharing and all this stuff."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "So we didn't wanna alter the labels then. So this is the reason why we say it's not 40, next week. So our next step's, thank you, Greg. You what, zoom in. Your comments, suggestions. Schuman has, will be joining as co author. Lots of good comments, lots of good feedback. So welcome to me in this quarter. Welcome your, additional comments and suggestions. We will include the MPLSTP and MPLS LSPs in the draft unless book has a a different directions, or different feedback. And, we do seek a working production for this stuff. Thank you. We have Greg in the queue. Yes. Uh-huh. Greg Murphy Erickson. So So for, Type 3 VCCV. How that would work in the multisignments to the wire? So it's not covering the draft right now, but that's a good comment. And, maybe we can discuss it and, It's it's a good comment. Yeah. And, actually, Again, Yes. There is a consideration for, non IP encapsulation But, Since that is long past history, I'm not sure that it's it's really anybody's into interested in Okay? Okay? Thank you. Thank you. So, Rakesh, how much should we show this to IPPM? Before we get too excited. Is that is that something that is important, or you think you're just what they do and and so it's none of their business. Greg actually wants to answer this, but you can answer as well. No. No. Actually,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "Another thing that's what I wanted to say is that, and that's what Edwin brought up So their, ICTM, does not define, encapsulation. And, Actually, there is No. No. Clear indication how the reflected packet is encapsulated. So my understanding is that the intention since to the wire is a bidirectional contract. That, whatever encapsulation is received by the session reflector that it will apply the same encapsulation on the reflected packet. Yes. Okay. Yeah. Actually, for BSD, without IP UDP encapsulation, we use just one, ACH channel. Not to. So, I can also answer So this draft is around for a couple of years, and, every time, have presentation in IPPM about staff extension. I always have one slide to show that, we have 2 encapsulation drops There's one in spring. And one in MPLS. So I I I put the slide up and say we are doing this work in other working groups for that calculation. So please let us know which I did 2 days ago as well in the IPP And Working Group. Cool. Good. So so they're they're aware of it. I mean, just a matter when we do an adoption poll, we should let them know, but we don't need to chase them Good. Thank you. Anymore? No. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Okay. So,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "Hello. I'm presenting on behalf of offers of M and a use cases, document Next slide, please. Oh, Right. Can you clear me? Because I apologize. Yes. Yeah. Ross, ma'am. Okay. So Their purpose of this document was that, to have, one place where we analyze and collect, the motivation for, MPOS network action work. So, And, now we are at the point where we want to revisit it to see are what is, really drives it and where, the solution should go. X 1. So, No. For the fast reroute, it's an example of, network action without ancillary data So in, redundant protection when one fails and reruns the packet to their, backup. So to indicate, so the backup, in in case of double failure would not, Send the packet back, creating a rolling loop. Okay. Next. In C2 OEM is an example of on path telemedicine. 3, method, for, collecting operational, state and telemetry information. To in, sup in support of performance, measurements. 2 RFCs being, published by IPPM Working Group. That includes several, trace options. Including incremental, pre allocated."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "Approve of transit and to end. And a separate draft dedicated to direct expert. Method. Of, and see the OEM. Networks wiseignet to resource petitions. So in the course of the discussion, effectively that, ends up, as, case for, more extensive way of expressing questions of service. So because it's expected that, number of support or used, network resource partitions might be larger than, supported by TC Space. Traffic glass space in, label stack element. So that's, there is an agreement that we need, to have some additional metadata being carried in, were associated with the MPOS packet, so that, packet receives the proper treatment. In the network. This is something that, we discussed and, actually, thanks to, chairs of the debt networking group. We received some feedback a qualification. The idea is that or the cases that, they're, 2 individual drafts, in a debt net. The cussing. Caring their, budget. For a packet. So the it can be expressed as a timing budget. That, bounds the packet because, in certain systems, delivering packet too late is even worse than just dropping the packet because it's already expired. So, basically, see."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "If you run out of a budget, you can as well drop the packet halfway through, your domain. But as I said, so we have, communication back from the debt networking, you know, group chair saying that Yes. It's still, in a discussion, and there is no, certain actually offer retired and not been actively involved IETF work anymore. So, we have, really doubt about this being, relevant use case for manda. At least at this time. Next slide, please. So, Also, in in course of the discussion, we, identified 3 possible new use cases. That might have applicability to M And A so one of them is flag based network tele re measurement it's, somewhat analogous to, in C2 OEM, Another is network programming. And is the performance measurement with alternate marking method. Although in the course of a discussion with authors, pointed out that earlier, synonymous flow labels were identify as a, one mechanism of supporting alternate marketing method in MPLS number. So again. These are 3 possible, use cases that still for the consideration. And if the proposals, to be progressed and they might be listed to edit to this document. Next slide, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "So, at this time, We just took this snapshot and, analyzed, current state of use cases, And, now it's open for group discussion and feedback, of what you see is relevant. How should we update the document should we, add something? Should we remove some use cases? And, what their, perspective of, how to use this document. Shouldn't be document published, or it's beneficial to keep it, as a live document for references. Thank you. I wonder Yeah, Kurt Sacha. I wonder if the others have considered as an option simply to merge this document that some some side as part of, say, introduction to have a playbook because my point is view framework usually refers to some use cases that you have more or less rated list of use cases. Yeah. That is a that's certainly a possibility. That we can look at It may help the authors of the framework and of the use cases to keep them separate while they're polishing the use cases. But then maybe to come together Yeah. But Yeah. Thank you, Sasha. So, so for now, Again, we are presenting our analysis and now asking for your, comments and feedback in terms of,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "whether the current Content of the document is representative of so Do you see that some use cases are not really relevant because apparently, there are working groups that we believed originally, developing and asking for these use cases that turn out that not really asking for it. Oh, this is perfectly understood. I don't have any problem with that. And about the I'm asking because the option that you have pre proposals your proposals for progressing this document look for me if, at least in and some of one of them said that you will not the document will not be published her other one says publish after the framework and requirements stabilize. Yeah. That was just a I'm going to go, what I have said is Have you considered this as a a way to progress to progress the document, That's all. Okay. Yeah. Again, will be following their, guidance from their chairs in the working group. I bet Tony's not going to say about this. Go Tony. Hi. It's my opinion that this document is ready I would just go ahead and publish it at this point. I think that the framework and requirements documents are derived from this So it seems backwards to wait for them. This is done. Let's ship it and move on. Okay. Thank you, Tony. Again, as I mentioned,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "So in the course of our discussion and based on the feedback from, chairs of the debt and working group It seems that, at least one of the use cases is not a really use cases being, actively, developed and, being the actual ask for M And A. So fix it and ship it. Okay. Yeah. I think we need to discuss that last point because I know research labs are interest in putting that sort of information is the package for, certain types of determinism. I do think we should ship it, and I definitely think we should, publish it. But people have been talking about not publishing it. We have to publish it believe because it's really the only effective way we got of getting opinions from our peers about whether it's correct. No other review mechanism really works in the ATF. Kunjang. About the, the select use case, as you mentioned, there is no consensus about the Republicans. But we have our, working group about the gating requirement, and it has proposed the the deterministic latency information should be carried in, in in cash relation. So it's better to reference to that draft. And update you to their 3rd, metadata information, So, and the progress in the design team for the queue information So I suggest to suggest to update the section 2.5. To reference their"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "to their scaling requirements route. Tied. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Again, will definitely need to, check with their, that networking group because, I've been not been following it. Very closely. My understanding is that although, yes, there is different proposals of how to do scaling. Specific mechanism is not yet been agreed. On So, caring explicit, information in the data packet is probably solutions, but not the solution that being agreed on. But Yeah. Let's let's continue discussion. That's that's let's see what's really being agreed by the working group because in my opinion, Although there are different ideas, individual ideas and proposals, how to do things? Probably it's better to have something that are the working groups and especially since, that net group is one of the groups that charter it and start the work of MPLS Network Action. Yeah. Let's let's Let's ask the Detman group for, feedback as a group Yes. Maybe the 10 bound information, can be generic and former, metadata not just for the budget to. Denate So this is my solution I I I I I think that it will be more, practical if, in M And a, we support mechanisms that are being agreed upon by other groups. Thank you. Record. Thank you, Candy, from Cisco Systems. I agree with Tony. The document is ready, and we should ship it. It's well written document and stuff."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:04",
    "text": "Only one comment I have is that I'm interpreting this document as example use cases of M And a are not complete all the use cases. So the way I would interpret that as that if I want to work on another M and A use case, It doesn't have to be in this document. I can still go ahead and work on it and, doesn't have to be included here. Right? These are just examples. Again, That that is probably some implied question that we have because One of the options that, offers we discussed is if we keep this document as a live document, then Yes. It's can include some new document, use cases that are agreed on. But as you say, if we follow, your and Tony, suggestion on publishing the document that reflects current agreement on the use cases, then, of course, any new use case will have to be considered separately. And then discussed separately. So let me give a slightly different context. So I have I'm an author of a draft in spring where we have a use case for M And a where we we have signed a stamp packet where we m M and A actionees to time stamp the packet and forward the packet. It's not in this document, but it's an M and A use case. The draft is there. So does mean that since it's not in this document, we have a dependency or I'm just trying to interpret this. No. Let let us be really clear. This this document is a list of possible use cases It's not exclusive. It is perfectly permissible to use M and A for anything else in the future without it being in this document. That's hard. Also, it's perfectly permissible to not implement a solution that is in this document. Yep. Perfect. That's the answer I was looking Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "Tony, So let me ask the elephant in the room question. How are we progressing in M And a? Yeah. So I'm gonna answer this as the newcomer, who hasn't read all of the drafts yet, and, My answer is carefully. What what Nick and I have been doing this week is cornering people 1 on 1 and saying, alright. Tell us what's worrying you about M And a. Tell us what you think needs to be done where it's going and so on. So our objective is to, to build a picture, not necessarily a comprehensive picture, but to understand what some of the concerns are, and what the breaking points are are where the red lines are, but also what compromises people are willing to come up with. And, I think our intention as chairs is Fairly soon, I have an internet draft on the meaning of the word soon. But fairly soon, we will workout, the right way to move things forward getting the requirements, stable and, getting consensus on them so that we can, advance the solutions work. Is that the sort of answer you, hoping for or looking for I was hoping for a little more granularity Is there a specific date where you could give us for a plan, At the moment, there is not a specific date. We will work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "towards a date for giving you a specific date, but, It it's just too soon. In in my bit of process, and there's this IETF meeting that's getting in the way, but, the chairs will get together very soon and try to put out a date for that. Hello. Leighberger. So going back to the debt net topic. As a debt Coacher, I can say we don't have any consensus on the need for Yeah. That use case that you cover. So if you said you were going to have a requirement that traces back to debt net I think that would be something that we would not support from a.net. Working group standpoint. Certainly, there are individuals who would support that, but not from working group that point. From a use case, if you phrase that this is a possible thing that somebody might want and you know, you know, use those types of soft, terms. Sure. You know, that's that's fine, but it's certainly not a a working group position that that's use case. Knob. So I don't know, you know, what there. But we wanna be really careful gear you wanna split that we don't take requirements from and start driving actual solution work. That's that's really the important part. And, Louis, thank you for clarifying that because that was exactly information that we were looking for. As we understand and intention and, purpose of use case document was to be, a source of information for the requirement documents. And then intention is And that's why we did the analysis. And presented our, understanding of the use cases. That, if that's not a really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "valid. It's it's not the use case that is required by any group. Not individual by the group, then it definitely too early to reflect it in requirements. Right? It it's premature. We may get there. Not saying we won't get there. But we're struggling with other topics first. That. Then have we have to reach agreement on those other topics before we can even ask that question Yeah. 6 Yeah. Thanks. And now your attorney said in the in the chat, m and a is sensible, and I think that's That's, A key a key point. And it would be really neat if the use case is kinda distinguish between We have this need now, and M and A is going to solve it for us. Compared to if we had M and A, this is the sort of thing we might do with it. Because the first, our motivational use cases, and the second are Are they excited aspirational? Thank you. Yeah. Yes. If I may take more, a little more time. So, in my understanding that, the use cases that, to remain and if and when published, at least that will be, invitation for the solution documents that will demonstrate how using the adopted M and A solution supports these use cases. But if there is something that, We as individual, contributors consider using MNA 4, Yeah. That's an, definitely something that can be presented as individual drafted. And then discuss So Cool. Okay. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "Okay. Hi, everyone. It's Jana from draft is about MPS encapsulation for deterministic latency network action. Actually, this draft is you, to use MTSMMA to support the in house to deny to use case. K k Let's on a slot. Slide. And a slide. Okay. Oh, so we have presented this draft and to IETF one system meeting. Since that meeting, we are the draft to have some updates first about the draft name change. And the terminology changed from DRA to the RNA. Seth Coleman from lower. And, this, since Vivienne also incorporate MPS plus stack, the RNI solution. And we also made some editorial updates. The slide. To design, the MPLs a, encoding for the managed, requirements, So first, we need to, refer to the requirement specified and, then a WG. And the second one, we also have the MPRs M and A use case, about the, dotnet, enhanced dotnet. K. Next slide. For the MPSDL solution, considerations 1st, as about the data. Such data may include,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "generic information. About the down a, such as opcode, some scenarios, and, accelerate data information related, latency, queue merchandising information, and that the data lens may be variable. Because, HMA it depends on the numbers of nodes just image AT and the network. For the beyond a encapsulation, we refer to the I'm here, Simon, a a several requirement, several drafts. And, for the the on a data carried in the MPLs I'm an a, MPS stack, we pro provide, 2 options. Unpaired in stock deal a and postdoc the a. As you know, MPR's, postdoc dma has not being, adopted by the WG, budget. Also, age in the you know, included in draft. There are some considerations for this. The first, because, to support the that naturally, it may be used for large scale network. And in this large scale, maybe, in this large scale network there may be many hops, and for yeah, and a digit maybe a big data because new to, Carrie,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "the latency, information related money hubs So I always think it's a postdoc, and a may have a greater capacity to carry this information And the second point is about because the natural word, is encapsulated again. Post stack, Kara's pulse deck. So we think maybe it's feasible to encapsulate this information to as a postdoc. So it may be a a brain a higher, data precisely. I efficiency. Okay. Next slide. About the Doctor and the agent, maybe before choose anascaling requirements draft. There are 2 requirements. First is vouchers, support, aggregated flow identification to support this requirement. The service type as needed, you know, different service type. And for the second requirement, it's to support information used by functions, ensuring, determine to your latency. For this, for today's requirement, different QA merchandiser may be needed. Okay. So next slide, this figure shows the and a option. The less less figure shows the 2 options. Dana, RSTM, a, and the PSTN, And the right figure shows instead of the encoding the IST, dlna field, shows and stack, network action opcode"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "for the application, and it's a LSE carries a ID data for, the specific data information. Okay. Next slide. The MPL's post stack, the online coding, you can find the the natural word is can, encapsulated in the post stack. So this option provides this, encoding. But we need to point that, The PST solution has not been adopted. So, this this option, or this encapsulation as initially designed. And it follows double g, and if hider, for match, and it also needs for further study. K a slide. We would like as for, more comments and questions and are we also, like, kindly request for WG adoption. Thank you. Hi, Greg Murstein, Erickson. So, Do you envision that, this, DLA will be applied to Detnet OEM packets as well. We have not considered it yet. Okay. Yes. Because, just thinking on the wrong"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "The fact is that, that net ACH is, larger. Than Detet control word. So, that would probably, complicate, processing of the LNA depending on whether it's a data packet, So, basically, whether you encounter control work or you encounter because how you point where your LNA is. So you you will have to adjust. For that reason, it seems that, option 1 So using in stack, is a simpler because it then makes it independent of what is the packet. They will, they will, Okay. Thank you. We all have some consideration age and make further discussion material after the meeting. Janice? So we can't hear you if you are talking, Okay. So audio does not work, then put your comment in the chats, and we will go to Rakesh. Rakesh Gandhi from Cisco Systems. I'm coauthor of the draft, but this is, since Louise coming here. So that net, me or may not be, there yet for the work, but, the use case, that, M and A has started for the bounded latency their crack presented. I I wonder if it can be addressed, as an ambulance working group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "use case for the Bounded latency. And, if that net is interested in it, great. Otherwise, it's just part of the MPLS use case. Thanks. Louberger. I don't know if Janush was gonna say this, but I bet I suspect he has a similar feelings, unless he types something. If he types something, we can go to him. From a debt net standpoint, It's likely we're going to get to a point point point of suggesting some changes and some additions to per packet to support certain latency, bounded latency, conditions, conditions so this is a topic we are going to talk and get to. In debt net. We haven't gotten there. If you could slip back a moment, on your slides. And I'm gonna So so Well, somewhere back here, there were there was a discussion about that one's a great one. There there's a discussion Next one. So, yeah, Yeah. Thank you. You you'll see there's some information here, which is about accumulated timing information. That's something that we think you wanna we may wanna do, but you wanna be super careful about that gets implemented in hardware. And if you get it wrong, there's a big cost. So this this is an area where we're trying to be very, very deliver it on in the debt networking group, and it's the reason we haven't gotten there yet is because we don't have agreement on what we wanna do on the the queuing side. And we're sorta we're trying to get to the queuing agreement so that we can make sure that we're putting the right information into the the data plane that's gonna end up in hardware and is has a big cost associated with So, you know, obviously, debt net can't say anything about what we do in MPLS do there, great. If we find it useful, that's awesome too. But I'd be a little cautious about running fast in this area. It's like your feedbacks."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "Okay. Okay. Thank you. Hello. It's a long Hi. Amitra Busy presenting on behalf of Coaters, the draft proposing a young data model for MPSTP MPST topology. Sorry. Next one. Okay. The history of the draft that we proposed initially a solution for MPLST Yanga. We presented to IETF, the IPF for 104, and the feedback from the discussion in this was that he is a profiler of FMC So we better, provide, define a solution generic for MPLST that can support also MPLSTB. And, we there's some discussion about where this war belongs, sir, and the idea was to progress is working together with the MPLST tunnel model, but to keep the FBI's working group informed on our progress. We had some updates, sir, in a couple of, IETF meetings, sir, And, basically, we decided to developed this new draft for the MPST topology. Model and to progress, the done, let's set up, updating the MPLS data and model, and we share some discussion or outcome of the discussion, how to describe the MPSTP capabilities inside the topology on the main list for both these MPS Next night. The approach is that the topology that is under the definition in diesem. And with MPLS, the MPLS specific car using Canvas labels, sir, very particularly. Nexta, And what we changed recently, we had some alignment that we are working in, in T zone LSC AT 776 BIS, So we are aligned and drafted to these new"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:04",
    "text": "draft. We updated the contributor sales to capture the contributions as well to comply with your SC-seventy We had some, discussion on the version 5, which trigger the version 6 revision on the abstraction, on the aspect of the document, Tom Patch made a good comment, sir. We think we have a better start now, and we have some any other comments from Adrian, which have been addressed, and we are on the input provided by Next slide. So we are tracking the progress of this document on the Tarek, Gitab, positively together with other the. We have, 3 open issues, currently open on document. 1 was an offline comment that received by discussing the abstract, that the original test was not very clear about, whether NPR is a part of MBS or not, it looks like a new job such as resolving this this comment, but Okay. I will, invite people to read a document and let me know if there is any ambiguity or, or source of confusion that we can address, we have adopted about whether there is an an needed to support the support of MPSD data setups across multiple domains. The current draft assumes is typically as a single domain, a tunnel, but Please review the text and let us know your feedback, sir. And, okay, the last one is a minor, worker, which we know what to do. We just need to do the did a yarn to the MPLS, for the and the leap after. Of course, we'll be welcoming any comments and feedbacks from both these and work NPLs working groups, sir, and we think the document is now ready for adoption. By the Ds working group That's all. Because according to my, slide deck, you have 3 more slides. I think people was. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "Are you, just generally letting us know, asking for casual review, or have you a specific thing that you want from the MPLS working group. No. It's more. Just let you know and and that we anybody could can't comment, a comment is welcome. We don't have any specific, issue. Yep. You. So this last, presentation is is a little sort of odd, but pals is not meeting this time around and this draft is is kind of, MPLS related a little bit. So, we agreed to that Christian present. Hello. My name is Christian Schmidtle from Cisco. I'm presenting a few updates. In in place of the authors that you see here. Assets, this is about, a health draft. It's about private line emulation. And it's about actually 2 drafts. 1 is an existing draft that's called adopted by the house group a little while ago and a new draft that will cover the signaling piece of it. Next slide. Maybe a quick recap. What is private line emulation? It's essentially an evolution to to emulate, a bit stream to the wire like we've defined it in the past, for PDH and Sonos, th, it is focusing though on higher speed interfaces, you know, any kind of ethernet, sauna, SDH, and fiber channel, and so on, for it we are defining 2 payload types, and you know, basically, we're kind of, like, evolving what has been defined for lower speed TDM, to highest speed speed streams."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "We're reusing the control word. We are, you know, again, using the LP and the ARPIDS, And, clock recovery. In this case, though we are limiting the use of differential clock recovery only. I pick on next slide, like, quick update. There's actually, interesting use case that we have seen maybe also worth to note there already are implementations out there. And what I'm depicting here is a, you know, deployment, you know, we're working on with a customer, for and some may, you know, ask yourself why would you do that? And what I'm trying to illustrate here that an enterprise, interconnect data centers, generally, you see an MPLS network, interconnecting the servers you know, connected with ethernet, But then in the back end, for the storage, you have, fiber channel infrastructure that consists of storage and fiber channel switches that historically connected with DWDM, and that DWDM network is generally also a, a lease or a managed service offering, and it's kind of dedicated infrastructure that depending on the customer, is something that they like or not like. And the customer doesn't like that. If you go to next slides, Private line in Malaysia. She can actually solve the dislike, if you will, by now ambulating the fiber channel connectivity between the fiber channels, which is over common IP MPLS network. So you have only one network. Everything goes via routers. You don't have to deal with the DWDM infrastructure which, is for customers that they didn't like that, obviously, a bigger one. So next slide. So let's focus a bit on what is new, on the draft that covers the data plane. We had a couple of, you know, comments that, came about during the work group adoption call, and we tried our best to, for example, clarify the plot requirements, you you you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "We also got, in, very detailed feedback from Eric So we, incorporated that along the the lines, and he also is now a contribute on the draft. And, I also worked on, some further edits from Chris Brown. The document, I think, has progressed very well. Com. Now what's what has changed a few things to highlight? I guess, actually, the first bullet is, redundant. Worths note ethernet has know, various aspects. So we also make sure cover things like energy efficient, ethernet, which is important, to understand what the need to service processing function has to do. And we also made some adapt, adaptation to the definition of how to emulate 200 gig and 400 gig based ethernet go. Okay? Next slide. think the most important thing I wanted to cover today is actually I we have progressed a lot on the data plane. We are now shifting the focus to also have signaling define as well. And what concerns pals, of course, the signaling using the LDP protocol, is something that we should look at. Again, we don't revolutionize here anything. It's an evolution. So the idea is to to take what has been done namely with RFC 5287 for TDM pseudo wise, as well as RSC 48 42 for generalized solid s th. In relation to the wires, and essentially you know, take what was defined there, and just documents the that the delta that is needed to also signal private line and Malaysian data plane pseudo wise. So they're the idea, is essentially, have a new document that that's the 2nd draft. We're gonna define a new pseudo wire type, that would be allocated by IANA. And then we are again using the payload bytes, to, negotiate the common payload size if that is wanted and we're gonna use the,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "options and the bit rate theory to make sure that we uniquely can identify that both endpoints are of the same type There's one addition that we would like to propose talking to operators and, and and vendors essentially, it's a common thing the transport network to identify the 2 endpoints and to ensure that actually a is talking to b, and a is not talking to C, in the OTN world that is defined by Trail trace identifier, and, we are proposing to include a new Tlv, which is the endpoint Tlv to essentially do the same thing. Next slide. I also wanted to give you, an opted or, I guess, of of And for for your information, I also, have a draft going on in the best group essentially allow PGB to you to be used for signaling. What we are trying to do here is that you may have 2 different protocols, but the actual information carried in the protocols is very much aligned. So whatever is, carried in, TLvid and LDP will be now carried in a BGP Attribute with TLVs as well. So hopefully that, shows that actually things are nicely aligned. Next slide. Next steps, as I said, I'm very happy that we got the draft adopted by the pals working group. I, hope for more feedback and inputs to progress this work further. And moving forward, of course, we wanna make sure that from a sing signaling perspective, if we are improving the work in the best group, using BGP, EVPM, as well as in the pals group to also have the LDP option defined to have an end to end approach, if you will. Again, more feedback, and comments welcome, and thank you very much for the time. Thanks. So so, 2 things. The first is there's there's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:03",
    "text": "only a marginal mention of MPLS in the document, But is there anything you're looking specifically to the MPLS working group to help you with I think at this stage, not, I I think I basically hijacked the MTS working group because there was no pal session. I'm sorry about that. That's fine. We exist. We exist to provide a service to our coaches or offers. I noticed that the, Powell's chairs are in the meeting. I don't know whether they want to leap in and say anything. Otherwise, we're just service the few as normal. Hi. This is Andy Malas. I'm one of the 2 Pell's coach here. I've been working with question on this, I've been providing some guidance to him and showing him way to look in the previous work. And, it's is is pretty good stuff, and we're, very enthused that there's still interest in pals going on. Thank you, Andy. Sasha, this is. I I I'm following this work. I might have told me that I don't understand the need for and fundraising. In in signaling, if you really want to to verify that endpoints, correct that you you can Have you considered Using fact, 1, 28 instead of 1 20 129 instead of fact 128. For verifying this, the current We are of a thermal circus. Okay, Alexis. This is something that is inherently present in what has been present from? I'm not for 47 and, in and Hess"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "been replaced by 87 these days. But it's all there. It includes, Local and remote. Educational circuit events, group and that, and unique identifiers You can do it all without introducing anything here. I don't think that you really need unless I'm missing something, I don't need that you needed a new dedicated interface parameter, let's look like this. Yeah. So, I think that's a good suggestion. I I I will need to look at whether that's a feasible approach. Maybe as a background, why I've post a new you know, TLV is, you know, looking at how things are done in OTN customers actually in cold specific things in those identifiers, and then they are trying to match them. So I was trying to to find an approach where you know, this, operational model can be you know, basically taken forward but when it comes down to just is connected to B. You're right. And, let me have a look at that. Yeah. Okay. I understand, I think I understand what you are saying. Kasner, please note it that monitoring the past race as a mismatch. Exists in in SBAH And Sonnet long before hotel has appeared. It is usually considered as a critical alarm that kills heels traffic. If you detect, mismatch, you can disable it if you wish. And, it was really and its intention to the best of my understanding Andy here, probably can say more about that. It was intended cool. Prevent missed connection as the result of misconfiguration. Not, I'm not sure this will help with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "7. Was was was I think that you have all the necessary goes with signaling, existing signaling without That's all. Thank you very much. And and I think, I would take your opportunity to probably connect with you offline. And make sure, you know, we come up with something that, make sense and addresses the, the, the use cases. Thank you. Sure. 9. So that completes our agenda apart from, anything anybody else has got to say about MPLS. Otherwise, you get 14 minutes back. Uh-uh, oh, taric, your remote and, now's a good time to jump in if you've got anything. No. Thanks, thank I wanna thank you, Adrian, and Nick, for being on-site and driving this. Just the last reminder for everyone attending I tried to capture the minutes as fast as I can, but Please go through. We'll be sending an email and you know, review it and let us know if we missed anything. And thanks to everyone for attending Brilliant. Thank you. There's a lot been going on in, as chat. And I guess the 0 that channel continues to exist even outside the meeting, but it would be really neat. If, people brought any substantive discussion to the mailing list. Thank you. Yep. Alright. Thanks, Andrew. Bye. So you are well, maybe see you in Brisbane if you've got good expense budgets."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:08",
    "text": "You don't remember your"
  }
]
