[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:31",
    "text": "hello hello um I'll give people one or two more minutes and then I will start"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:53",
    "text": "all right let's get started um look at the list of particities but I think I can probably skip the slides about APR can you confirm you can hear me you can hear you all right excellent oh sorry okay everybody should be familiar with not well various IDF related BCPS remember code of conduct uh the main thing is just being respectful and I'm nice to each"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "other uh we need a note taker for major things all right I don't think we'll have that many uh action items so that's shouldn't be too difficult um I'm struggling though to open the Hedge dog let me give me a moment here um you can take private notes that's fine all right well yeah if they cannot be online that's fine so this is draft list of issues I'll have a slide on this um in particular will skip the received how they feel discussions today but I'll get to that in a moment um and then if you have time yes we'll discuss some um applicability statement issues I'm hoping this is going to be a shorter session today on that in mind any agenda bashing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "all right hearing none so um I'll look and do some discussions on the trace header fields on the mailing list and offline um it's quite clear that we are not quite ready to discuss this um so the proposal is for chairs to create design team including chairs and editors of 5321 based on 5322 bits if anybody else wants to be included on the team please let chairs know um and the design team will come up with a specific set of changes to the um both documents this is kind of a follow-up to what was discussed at itf115 but this this slightly more formal way of doing this okay yes uh I will send a message to the mailing list about the design team that's a very good point thanks Peter right um other things to discuss is we have various Registries and ion registration policies um I made slightly more expanded slides than for itf115 including what's currently registered and to help our discussions and home hopefully fingers crossed starting with a simple one or just literal tags this is basically the only value registered is IPv6"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:04",
    "text": "um my personal opinion I don't believe that uh many new values will be registered in this one so I think basically the document query it basically says standard section but it might might not be using exactly this language so it probably should stay extended sections discussions please foreign just a quick observation that having this be anything but standards track increasing opportunity for uh for register John is it just me or I I don't hear you hopefully it's fine it's just you I heard fascinating okay let me try John try again yeah um thank you I think leaving this is anything but standards action is an invitation to somebody noticing and registering ipd10 and a variety of other kinds of nonsense so just just as a means of avoiding denial of service of tax if nothing else let's just read this alone okay any other comments Dave has his hand up one are anticipated at this time is that intended to be part of the actual document or just a note here uh can you all about it but what do you mean hello yes hello I can hear you Dave he means is it going to be in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "document that it says None or anticipated at this time or is that just for for our consideration so I'm not hearing anything it's actually it's already says this it said this for in 5321 another anticipated at this time is in the document already yes and it was in the past rfcs yes all right um moving on um we have there and with some Registries and this might be foreign experimental I think I suggested the idea review on the mailing list and elasticityf but obviously we should have a discussion on this um on the next couple of slides I will you will see that which specific values are currently registered foreign so hopefully this will help us make a decision okay so with uh it has [Applause] 18 registrations so far SMTP SMTP lmtp and various variants like smtps for TLS esmtpsa for TLS and authentication and stuff like that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "Barry because so my sense is for for any of these that say standards action or iesg approved experimental that that phrasing comes from before ietf review existed um I don't see any issue with going to ietf review and leaving it up to the iesg whether it's appropriate to approve an informational or not I don't see a functional difference between experimental and informational in that regard foreign yeah and speaking personally I will also know that I actually uh wrote and received how the field pasta and I'm getting some very interesting results including um that I observe uh other values like HTTP and HTTP rest are being used um which probably should be registered I don't think the experimental they are already in use so if somebody is to write a document that's probably going to be informational jump uh I don't have a strong feeling about this since the isg decided that uh that informational documents require IDF consensus I think that takes us pretty close to Ikea for view the key question here is whether um whether we should go even further because as soon as you start making the argument for HTTP for example um you're making an argument that uh that the independent stream ought to be able to to uh publish a document called um um uh big codes um uh transport mechanism for email"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "and uh and register with that informational documentary transport mechanism as well I started really strong feelings about it but if we're going to prevent ITF informational then then we're at that boundary this actually brings a good point uh I was actually checked what we're using internally and we have various other transports as well which again I don't think uh they might be uh documented in the specification but I doubt they will be its stream documents if we decide to publish anything like cftp and stuff like that you see increasingly unwilling to publish um uh gorilla companies uh specification of doing so and so and it's pushed into the independent stream uh years ago this used the iitf stream documents without coming however that's an improvement or a step backwards as our present-day reality and the only other thing which concerns me about these kinds of changes is the IFC having changed its mind to change his mind again right beat well now now I'm not sure and and John maybe you can help um you think that ietf review would not cover the case of it going into the independent stream now that that would be RFC required ah because I don't I think we want these documented but I don't think there's a big downside to this I mean unlike um with I think there's no big downside to having a bunch of these in the long run even if some of them are goofy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "um and and yeah I I guess I would be okay with RFC required um I'm given the amount of well consider if the isg thinks you know someone's trying to register something idiotic in here they can push back against the independent stream and say hey this is trying to Route Around standards work um by you know trying to register one of these idiotic things I I'm not convinced RFC required would be that bad to do keep in mind Pete that uh that the iesc could tell the independent stream uh no this is horrible don't publish it or interferes with staff and they can publish it anyway yeah no I understood understood right Dave who's first the general discussion about whether registration should also be a quality assurance process for the substance or whether it's really about getting things registered um and I'm I'm I I thought we were leaning in the direction of worrying more about facilitating registration than about in adding uh quality control to the process which thereby reduces registrations um do I have that understanding wrong because it sounds to me like what's being talked about now raises the bar and and I don't mean relative to history I mean just in general has a higher bar than Regis registration typically should have absent a clear understanding of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "ain't great uh Barry go ahead comment was just um I I agree with what Pete said I'm good with RFC required I would be good with specification required as well I don't think we want to go any lighter than that because we do want the specification to be reviewed for these things but uh the independent stream gets reviewed sufficiently these days that I'm good with RFC required and I agree with Dave that we we're better off encouraging the registrations yeah personally I think that uh we want some kind of review whether it's RFC or expert uh because we don't want duplicates in this space as much as we can avoid it and uh um I actually saw in this field things like Microsoft SMTP server was basis which is actually not great um arguably you know it's it's you might argue that it's syntactic violation about this uh some people decide to put it there um so I prefer RFC required or specification acquired as well Dave Pete foreign [Laughter] I typed into the chat room uh but uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "I'll repeat it here just in case I I agree with Dave and principal on the first come first serve sort of default mode um and my thought is with regard to message headers the odds that putting a new stupid one in um really doesn't increase the interoperability problem for anybody else whereas in here because things might want to parse this in interesting ways it marginally increases the possibility of an interoperability Problem by putting crap in here so some sort of higher level seems like a a reasonable thing and I I you know I'm now leaning with Barry that we try and drop that as far as possible when specification required or RFC required or all it perfectly reasonable um okay I I I would have tried drawing a distinction here which may be a little bit too fine but remember that these are clauses in the existing registered uh header field they're not new header fields uh and that to use Pete's words makes this marginally more likely to follow things up if people do creative things uh we might or not agree about where the margin lies but I'm a little bit hesitant about getting very liberal with these as distinct from the others and to a considerable extent and we could say this inspected even wanted to if people want to do creative things here without going through a serious registration review process uh then let them create new header fields and then let's argue about whether those Heather Fields or Trace fields or not but uh um but uh um but I think going down below"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "um RFC required uh would be mistake from that standpoint and I'm very reluctant to go to specification required for exactly the reasons which set off weeks of discussion and arguments in about that for the for the service extensions uh which is in part that the Ayana keeps telling me telling us that they're having trouble recruiting experts that they're having trouble keeping experts if they're having trouble getting rapid responses from experts and the communication between the experts and the community on average across the Anna Registries with specification required or expert review has been to put it politely miserable so I'm okay going to RFC required but I don't think we go any further any lower than that if we have to go lower than that I'd suggest doing the same two-track thing that we've tentatively set up for service extensions so if somebody doesn't want to play they have to explicitly identify themselves as not wanting to play and then we just indicate the community that they are doing this but aren't playing okay let me try to use uh voting tool I know it's just just to indicate uh what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:05",
    "text": "thank you [Applause] foreign moving on and this uh via registry uh there is currently two values registered but it's kind of actually I think um what occurred to me while doing this slide is I have this mule RFC which is multicast email not published on ITF stream which really should have registered a via value because it you can consider it a gateway um for that uh if I were to do this I think probably RFC required would work otherwise you know it will be you know I need to submit a separate document on itf3 thoughts Barry the the one that comes to mind might be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "quick but um I'm good with RFC required on this one as well yes quick is probably going to be another one of these yes yeah I I think whatever the arguments were for the previous one going RFC required probably would probably apply here too and if we're going to do anything else we need to justify it and I feel like writing that text okay I think uh let's propose RFC required on this one as well all right additional registered Clauses um so I included for registered values from existing rfcs and there was a variety of discussions again um I kind of thinking after the discussion that we just had on other registry that's probably RFC required is probably it would default here as well John this makes me in in this hierarchy of things between um new Heather fields and messing around with the assistant um with with new clothes with Clauses in existing registered Fields especially ones which are heavily used and uh and people are dependent on like pursued um uh I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "uh I think there's a hierarchy here I think this is more dangerous than tampering with the existing um uh existing Clauses and putting new values on them um and uh and and again explicitly pushing people toward uh toward new header Fields if they want to uh uh stuff information in the headers other than uh uh that watching already in a field is uh is probably dangerous territory especially for a field that's already standardized and has been in use since uh 0 8 21 822 if not before that uh so I don't feel as strongly about this as I probably sound but this will be a good place but if this is if we're going to push back on anything at all toward ietf review or or even distinguished statistics experimental this is probably the case okay yeah actually now that I I thought a bit more about this I think you convinced me as well that ITF review is probably a good default for this beat yeah and more a question than anything else um do do we know that current implementations that go sniffing it receive Fields handle or don't handle new Clauses easily and if if this if the current behavior of everything that we know about is new Clauses just get ignored and they actually go hunting for things that they care about nothing else I'm not nearly given so much heartburn um and that means that you know received is probably reasonably safely extensible in this way whereas if we know that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "things hiccup already even if we know badly implementing things hiccup already that would probably be a reason to have a stronger standard um I have uh I scan my uh 50 000 messages in my inbox received headers from 50 000 messages and I know that TLS one is used for sure for example I haven't uh I haven't seen others yet but I'm I've been looking very attentively so I think extensibility is handled um I also see quite a bit of Brokenness but I will follow up on this uh separately okay shall I use the fancy tool again who no hold on this one I messed up I'm not sure how to reset the voting tool okay so uh shall we do it in the chat then uh who likes uh who is in favor sorry is in favor of ITF review for additional closes my apologies I can quite type but um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "I think people got the idea okay so slight preference for ATF review question I would ask is John can you uh John Clemson can you live with ietf review or would you dig your heels in about the status quo um I'm getting better and better at holding my nose as this work goes on yeah list yes of course of course because I know from some analysts and some office discussions that there are uh at least a few people besides me who think the standard artists of RB higher okay what I will pause we'll post uh suggested resolution and we'll ask for objections and basically if there is uh no discussion on objections then we'll just go with ITF review for this one All Right Moving On okay so this is basically going back to SMTP extensions uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "registry this is just a reminder on on how we came here um the latest proposal in version 16 is basically to registration standard track or ITF approved experimental for people who want to consider Community review or want its Temple approval uh otherwise minimal effort first come first serve but obviously Ayana will make sure that there are no name conflicts so in the current version of draft 16 don't have text for both proposals yes Barry go ahead and go ahead and finish what you're saying first Mary I did speak uh can you hear me Alexa if you're speaking I'm not hearing anything are other people hearing me very and Alexa if you prefer to finish whatever you're talking about first all right well never mind then I'll just say as I said on the list I I think this is a great proposal and I'm I'm very happy with uh with where it sits it strikes the right balance between giving people the opportunity to get broader review and input from the community uh while still allowing them to register lightweight if that's what they want"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "foreign my apologies I I've missed what you said can you try again foreign we're not hearing you anymore can you hear me now yeah now just heard that okay and I'm hearing you foreign okay so um hopefully you will benefit I'll just repeat what I said I I just basically said that uh what I said on the list is the case that this uh this proposal is what I'm looking for and I and I'm happy with it yes and I also confirmed on the mailing list that they I'm also happy with this one as a participant John since you you and Barry have supported this mailing list and uh and I'm taking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "silence for everybody else during this discussion is concerned uh unless anybody has other suggestions uh I'm gonna make an announcement on the mailing list that I'm about to go to work on uh on sorting this out and uh uh and taking out the spare text and whatever uh and give people 24 hours to respond to that and then move on uh just that's a reasonable strategy I found sounds like a good plan All Right Moving On um I did mention that we're not going to talk about race healthy Fields here but this is kind of related to Anna Registries I think we at the atf-115 there was a preference for extending existing message header field names registry with an extra field and we had to discussion John do you want to talk about this foreign to share a document Ary"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:10",
    "text": "John try again thank you have I lost this yes Barry no I just I didn't hear any sound for quite a while and I was wondering whether it was me or you I was uh I was trying to volunteer John to talk but uh no it's it it's probably me let me try again um the advantage of my my concern about leaving this as uh as simple registration which is where we are with declaration something is a trace field uh is that it interacts with all the other Trace field issues such as blocks and ordering and interspersing of things and if we stay simply with the existing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "registration model and uh and allow somebody to put in a this is a trace field um statement then that state then something becomes a trace field or not simply but author declaration and to the extent to which we think any of the uh uh I should say simply by registering declarations documentation that required and to the extent to which we think any of this stuff about blocks of things and uh ordering and putting things together and not intercoursing stuff is of any value whatsoever uh having something be a trace field or Not by author declaration is sort of the end of that um so I have a because of that concern and again depending on what other decisions we make about Trace fields uh uh my uh my suspicion is that we should make this that we should put this into the Dual track model and and not require not permit somebody to uh to declare something as Trace field except by IDF review okay so uh sorry I'm messing up with uh other variation slides again parenthetically uh is that if we start talking about other kinds of blocks like reset blocks then arguably if we're going to put something in the registry that says something it's a trace field uh we should allow for other kinds of declarations if something is part of a different kind of block list okay um I think you're right we are not quite ready for this discussion let's skip this for now um I would like to wrap up I have three slides on as issues just to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "kind of follow up on things uh maybe we can do it very quickly and if discussion drags on them well we'll see so the decision about the slide you just took down is we're deferring that decision is that correct correct no decision yes okay thank you um right John can you quickly talk about this one um this was extracted from 53-21 bits um I checked I think a lot of text is already covered about relationship to TLS and and Transport Security uh it was already covered by ticket 54. um I think we'll probably need to make sure that this is discussed on the mailing list um I suspect there is actually nothing to add to the document but if people can double check or suggest some specific text that would be great right stick it about 78 octet limit versus 99 998 length limit um I suggested some possible text uh in a private message is Pete do you have an opinion obviously we need to discuss this on the mailing list but I'm just trying to get a get an idea whether"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "people think this is a useful addition to the document okay and I I almost invite Ken to come say something about this I'm you know I'm perfectly happy for the as to go into a greater explanation of what's going on here um but you know we talked about adding some text and I'm not totally sure I've got a handle on what's desired I I've certainly got no problem with what state before I'm kind of in the same boat I wasn't sure previously what problem we were trying to address but given Lexi's text if that is the problem trying to address then I'm fine with that what he came up with yeah I'm uh some of it is my gut feel I kind of making couple of statements one is that I've observed pretty long um so implementation don't seem to have a problem with length of kind of fields foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "all right John's hand up may uh be exactly what I'm looking for I I don't quite understand the ambiguity that's at issue here um you know the the I understand that minus zero zero zero zero was a hack we put in in 2822 and some people have used it but I'm not clear on what else would help people do the right thing so I'm you know speaking as a participant not as the document editor I'm inclined to leave it alone but I'm certainly open to get some clarifying text uh my concern here is we've got another working group that is busy doing things with time zones I've got two concerns versus we got another working group which is busy doing things with time zones in uh in all sorts of other things and at least the if we're going to do something which is different from that working group from what that working group is trying to do then I think we should at least be explicit about that uh and uh and the second concern is every I mentioned this on the list I think is that every use we have had so far in a standard strike email uh specification that has used data receipt Fields as far as I know has um has done so as a time stamp so it's always the date at which something happens as soon as we start having"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "specifications floating around including the one which is now in last call which are talking about future dates that all the issues with sedate and calex have been um uh struggling with about how you specify future dates what their semantics are uh fall into the email domain as well and I would like to make it specific suggestion which is that the uh co-author of that future looking specification um the editors of uh of the as perfectly not including me um the working group co-chairs and uh and since he's lucky enough to be on this call Francesca as the the responsible for the sedating calaxt get together with the sedan calyx leadership and see if we can figure out a way to either find a middle ground here or find some very clear language which says the email specs are doing different something differently whatever those specs are and people should be aware of it and stuff that language into both EAS and the calyx and sedate specs okay Francesca's that seem reasonable hello sounds very reasonable to me well thank you John for volunteering uh everybody else for a change um all right um Francesca will follow up on this if thought if you can minute that we should do that all right with that um I have no more slides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "thank you for coming um hopefully in a couple of weeks I will have more information about uh from my parsing or received Heather Fields experiment um I will feed that to to the working group um with that thank you all very much and see you next time"
  }
]
