[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "now i have the control yes and what happens when we're done with this how do we pass do you pass control back or does it always stay with us as well say again pascal as a chair you can the control that you gave you just take it back so there's i'm at the chair right now so i can't see the button i mean you can say back i've seen the time let's let's uh let's start so um let's find the chair slides excellent um so good morning everybody um it is morning local time this is raw reliable and available wireless uh so we are doing a full hybrid experiment here by having the chairs both remote and uh karina and carlos standing in being our in-room delegates so thank you very much to both of them for trying it um i think we have more chairs and delegates that we have attendees in person but um celebi uh hopefully this will change over time so can i eve can i have the next slide please or can i just take control i think you can just take control"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "but let me pause this like there you go thank you very much so uh ietf note well i do hope you are familiar with the noteworld at the moment um having attended uh a few of these meetings before if you are unfamiliar this is uh your rights uh so important things contributions covered by patents and patent applications uh participation you are agreeing to be recorded um there's also the personal information handling by the ietf and your agreement to behave respectively respectfully uh in association with others so please read this information uh in depth at your leisure if you are unfamiliar with it otherwise please be aware that this meeting like any other working group meeting um operates under the ietf note well and here are the exact um bcps which cover the the fine details so there's a record here so ietf113 this is a hybrid meeting which is exciting uh i can see a lot of people are participating remotely but if you are on site and i do have a view of who's in the room uh there is an on-site tool so that we can integrate the meeting queue with uh the remote queue um and we'll see how well that goes i mean meet echo i think has turned into a really elegant tool over the last couple of years so i'm confident that this will work well um key things is in-session participants please keep your audio and video off if not using the on-site version not 100 sure what that means but that i assume is to reduce echo from the room as you can tell we're in quite a large echoey room in vienna but it's not destroying the audio too much for me i apologize if anyone else is having"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "terrible feedback uh right administrative yeah so uh yep this is obviously on meat echo i'm assuming everyone is on meat echo although i suppose you could be connecting via jabba um but there is the url for the meat echo uh automatic blue sheets so the days of pen and paper have passed um or are there blue sheets in the room carlos and karina no um so we seem to have lost kodi md but we now have hedge dock built into um the meet echo ui so we would like to do collaborative notes if there is someone who is willing to act as an interactive note taker that would be great but please everybody join in to make sure a any um spellings of names are correct because there are a combination of different languages and different names so please make sure that that whoever is taking notes has got your name right that's very handy and also double check that the point you were trying to make was captured correctly so anything you can do in that way would be great um so the mating list as usual is raw at iatf.org you should please subscribe to that if you're interested in the proceedings of raw and the meeting materials for this session so that it's the slides and the agenda and so on are all at the url at the bottom uh right i'll hand over to eve at this point because i seem to have spoken for five minutes off the cuff oh well i was going to say that due to the hour where i live it is about 2 a.m um i'm likely to be quite silent during the meeting and i will be taking notes so please join me i see that there are a few others on here so thank you very much our agenda is quite full today we are going to hear from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "um nils on the status of the ldx draft which is wending its way through review and we also just had the use cases draft submitted and carlos will give us an update after it reached working goose group last column was also submitted to uh for for formal review pascal will give us um an update on the architecture draft which after the last itf was separated from the framework draft and we will hear about both of their status and then we have some an update on the oam support draft which of course has its mirror drafts in the debt networking group as well we will hear from forbids on the status of that and carlos will come back to us to speak about a new draft that he has submitted for consideration on multi-domain extensions we do have a bit of additional time so we're we don't have to stay entirely within our limits because of course discussion is the main point of having these meetings so we welcome your questions comments and inputs all right thanks steve uh if he is available uh should we go straight on fell back or does anyone wish to pass the agenda just very quickly checking the queue no pretty if you're available or excellent uh i believe we're going to be the magic of if you do request to share slides oh we're trying to make this slide thing work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "so pass slide control so i'm talking to myself now while i try and click buttons which is a little unprofessional um so niels you should have control of slides all right which means you should be able to share pre-loaded slides or i cannot hold on i can't there we go all right then i cancel my request and you can share the slides that watched as well and if i pass slide control you should be able to change forwards and back does that make sense it's getting there this meets echo it's pretty good these days so anyway thank you me checker um all right good morning everyone i'll be relatively brief today uh but i want to talk a little bit about the changes that we did from the last version 09 to the version 10 now uh thanks to john scott we really received some great feedback that we incorporated in the draft and i think the draft is just um and the pros have been uploaded the version 10. so let me just walk you over the changes um it's a note well and here are the changes so from the version 09 to the version 10 uh the outline basically remained the same we did some changes in chapter three with the motivation use cases then we adapted some lines in the requirements section and i think the the biggest change happened in the reference section since we removed a lot from the normative or basically everything from the normative to informative references um since with a little back and forth with john we received the feedback that the draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "in itself is completely understandable without relying on any external references and the rest is just additional information for the reader to really grasp the depth of the work here additionally in the appendix we had some changes made to enable the reader to understand the requirements imposed by aeronautical referential documents and i think with that i walked over all the changes and now we go in the depth of each of them so in the motivation use cases um we weren't clear enough about the current security concept that is in place so um if we look at aeronautical communications today and we're talking about terrestrial based long-range communications um there's just one system in place really that's currently rolled out it's called the video number two that's the vhf data link mode too and uh it was rolled out in the 90s about that and there are really no cyber security measures on the link in itself and so the entire security concept relies on phraseology well-trained personnel pilot and air traffic controller really knowing each other but there's no security measures as we would define it here and essentially had to clarify that and that is one of the big differences between the current uh version of aeronautical communications and the one we're proposing here with ldx um the second one is about the separation of uh safety based communications and entertainment or in-flight entertainment based communications and this can so so there's a scenario that can happen for instance the flight crew or the pilots they have a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "limited data link available meaning they have around 10 kilobits in in up and down stream while a passenger can watch netflix in plain basically but those are different domains right so one domain is for communicating safety critical stuff so basically high reliability and availability are key so the links are designed with more robustness in mind and on the other hand it's just about um throughput and this is why uh we have those two concepts and both of them obviously must be strictly uh separated and this also happens with aldex as well let me all right so uh that covers chapter three in chapter six with the requirements um we made clear again that there's a huge change currently happening with aeronautical communications so until now most of the stuff was communicated by a voice and there's a protocol from the 70s called a cars then in the 90s there was the 80 in osi and since the 2010 um the entire idea is to run traffic so aeronautical telecommunications network traffic via an id based network and it's also why we're here with the ietf and the envisioned network so it's not installed in place except for some experimental"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "airports uh is that you have an ipv6 based network for aeronautical communications but um you want to have again separation of consensus so if you want to have the aeronautical ip internet so basically for routing the atm traffic and obviously you want to have the the customer internet as separated as much as possible so that you don't um you're not able to switch from one to the other and cause shenanigans um the second part was about the rollout so um i think everyone is aware that with the uh pandemic everything has um scheduled a little later than uh was anticipated so the entire ruler was initially planned for 2024 and now we're on 2025-26 um yeah last thing that we changed again with the references um with with a little bit of back and forth and discussions uh we basically adapted the document um to such a state that if you read the entire document that you'll be able to understand what aldex is what it does and you don't really need additional information to grasp the concept if you want to go deeper such as what kind of modulation schemes are done how does the file protocol look like then obviously we point to other references but it's not necessary to read them to fully understand the concept of it and i think that covers basically all the changes obviously we changed knits and bits here and there um some some rewritten some sentences to make them better understandable and yeah um at this stage i just want to thank uh john um for the really really the feedback and um yeah from there it's just a road down to what comes next"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "thank you um i jumped in the queue first there but actually i wanted to ask a question really of john and and niels is have we addressed everything john wants to say and uh addressed all john's comments and are we ready to move forward so uh i'll shut up and let john speak uh yeah so i i went and looked at the preprint um and it looked like everything was well covered um thank you very much and um and thanks for writing an easy to read document by the way i know that's not easy um anyway yeah i think we're ready uh so you know so sometime this week i will hit the button to start the ietf last call and we'll be on our way excellent thanks john so that's that's good it looks like we might have our first raw rfc and it might be ldx but uh yeah fingers crossed thank you very much niels so uh thank you since then i have closed the agenda so i can't tell you what's happening next so next up we've got uh if the oh karina you're in the queue go for it um just two questions references in should we just delete the section or put nothing to apply here oh that's a good question i'm not sure if there's a convention for that uh i'm comfortable with you either removing the normative references heading or leaving it empty either one is okay um the the rfc editor will fix it to match whatever the their preferred style is once it gets into edit um i guess my my instinct would be to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "actually there's an argument either way so um my first instinct would be to go ahead and leave it in sort of as a you know this space intentionally left blank but really do as you prefer karina my my advice would be the rfc editors are very good at what they do in terms of editing so leave the heading there say this section intentionally left blank and they will fix it and they will fix it with you they're very good at it so don't worry too much about that sort of thing as long as the content is good they'll they'll really help you with the rest it was just a question because i still need to upload the version 10 because it was blocked yesterday there too yeah it's that that strange thing with our atf where you can't upload until the meeting starts for one week very bizarre but um when you can just no big deal so john i will upload it within the days it should be online latest tomorrow fantastic great thank you thank you thanks guys so uh next up we have carlos with uh the use cases draft and as carlos is in the chair i'm just gonna get out of the way and let him to do the thing i was trying to use the tool to share but anyway i will go to the old way sorry about that i was trying to use the new feature but maybe it's easier if i do okay one second and i'll be there yeah that's great we can see that okay so this is going to be let me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "a very quick update on the raw use cases so this is the outline just for for those that may not be familiar with the draft there are several use cases described aeronautical communications amusement parks wireless for industrial applications probably on video wireless gaming uav and b2b platoonian control edge robotics control and emergencies and for each of the drafts we have different sections analyzing the motivation for why we need the use case the need for wireless for that particular use case and kind of the requirements for for raw this is basically the structure per use case description specific challenges need for wireless and requirements and in the last itf iteration we also added a subsection for the non-latency critical considerations because raw is not only about latency maybe about latency of course but it may be also about resiliency in some scenarios where the latency is not that critical so we believed based on some comments from pascal that was a that was a important thing to cover in the draft and we basically adapted the structure to to highlight that point as well then since last atf cycle we got some very nice and good reviews from pascal and from korina we think authors that we address all the comments from the reviews in the current iteration so again big thanks for for the reviewers to to take the time to provide the comments and to check everything from things to clarify reference to ad and also needs and and typos that we had to fix so by doing that we also did some editorial fixes and improvements along the way and in terms of next steps well now it's um it was publication requested so it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "at the asc and we're basically waiting for comments at that at that stage and then we will try our best to to address the comments so not really much to what at this point any questions comments i was just going to add a thank you for getting the document to the state it's in at the moment and thank you to the reviewers um i think obviously charney's is in the depth of previewing ldx at the moment and so this is next in his queue when he has the cycles so thank you very much anyone else with comment excellent um so next up we have uh pascal who uh is speaking about the architecture and the framework documents and the split between the two and so he's got quite a big time uh slot for this basically it's pascal knows what you're doing so um take the time to split it up as you like um go ahead okay i hope you can hear me i'm sharing the uh architecture slides and if it doesn't consume more space i can't send the video out i guess there we go guys um yes so this is about the the raw architecture document which was uh split uh between architecture and framework as we said um so i won't go back to this slide which is basically uh summarizing what we expect to do uh in very short it's it's a matter of uh balancing the use of energy and spectrum uh the more energetic spectrum you use the more reliability you get on your transmissions but um on the other hand uh you have constrained energy and constrained bandwidth in the wireless spectrum so you cannot push"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "too far on either energy bandwidth so we have to find uh engineered methods to to optimize effectively the balance between how much reliability and variability we get and how much energy and bandwidth spectrum basically we stand we spend getting that reliability so that's that's a generic concept for common context forum now um the initial document had two main pieces uh which we kind of split into architecture and framework one is is forward-looking it's basically giving the the broad building blocks and that includes terminology because if you don't have a crisp terminology you cannot go anywhere because we don't even understand each other so so we need we need to have a very crisp energy in which we can build and we we also need to say hey here is there are the objects we are manipulating and and here is what we are trying to achieve but without giving here is why you take that draft and we are using that protocol because we don't even know yet so clearly we position ourselves as spin-off or maybe hopefully one day you spin in of that net uh focusing on wireless and reliability but exactly which which drafts rfcs will will be proposed and uh to achieve role it's it's not the scope of architecture architecturally says there is a broad picture of what we intend to achieve but so it's really something that we want to publish early in the work of this group so so we can have a terminology and can have goals that we all understand the agreement the framework on the other hand is to be our journal if you like i mean following our progress the more we focus on there is the technology that we're going to use uh this draft this rfcs those will be how we effectively build our solution"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "and so the other idea is that the framework is to be read by people who bought the work in between so they can see where we are and it will be published at the very end so as i say testimony of how we do that i mean this that's basically how it works it's using this rfc to you know hopefully everything will be rfc by that and there are all those rfc interact to effectively achieve uh what the architecture was talking about so yeah we have we hope we are close to workgroup let's call it the architecture and effectively for the framework we want to keep it alive until the very end of the of the work now the um the first thing we need to really agree about as i said is the terminology and and we realize uh trying to dig into what we want to achieve that there might be a gap and i just reviewed an excellent review thank you so much lou uh an email by lou that was posted this morning on the mailing list i mean at least alpha these commands are really related to you know goal to terminology and then the rest is obviously the goal and the context but the basically the terminology will be very very critical to us on the one hand we want to to use you know as much common terminology as the rest of the ietf so we don't want to involve a different term for something that exists which is kind of a quantum and valuable track um on the other hand when things don't match we want to be able to differentiate and say hey um really our understanding of this is that and in particular we we have this problem with path i've been digging uh the idf a lot of the term path and that that really troubles me most of the path has been used by many many working groups with ietf and iota and the term usually references"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "not a a graph really but more like an experience like here is the path that this packet has been following and that kind of yields the notion that the packet has kept is its integrity from a to b and that does follow a serial sequence of nodes and links a to b to c to d whatever to destination and we are not doing that we we are computing a graph which is a potential and the path that the packet will follow it's actually many of them because the packet may be duplicated and a packet we may not keep its integrity if we took some network coding and we flood a small graph from a to b with different network credit fragments then yeah the the packet will not even experience one path it's pieces of the packet or by-products of the packet fragmentation and coding will follow different paths so so basically we we we kind of want to keep the the concept of path to express an experience there is no everything that was used in the process of getting that information from a to and we call that a complex path because now it's not as simple as a cereal thing it's not even the experience of a packet because it might have been broken in pieces so we we call that that experience a complex path by you know an energy to a path but then then we still need a term to express the potential of a packet because what we are doing really is we are building this graph from a to b and then we are using a subset of it so so the big graph that that exists and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "may or may not be fully or partially is is not an experience it's a potential it's it's what you may use it's the subset of the overall network that is available to you at the ingress to to effectively propagate that information all the way to the destination so we want to make a difference between that potential and an actual experience and that's why we have this concept of track now uh i just saw this morning the the the feedback from lou how is that different from from a uh basically a tea path a protection path for traffic engineering uh we need more discussion with lou and see you know how the terms overlap and if if track is completely uh within the concept of of t-pass and protection path and honestly i don't know um i've not dug into that and uh contribution on that term and etc i mean that would be great uh but for now we have the definition uh that i have copied here it's basically defined as an ios3 abstraction basically a graph and that goes from a point a to point b uh with uh that net edges uh that net nodes at the edges and uh serial path between the edges uh operating as segments that join the edges so the vertices are serial path uh uh operating at as i said that the dead next player could be actually at the four okay i i need to check that term because uh for me the vertices are stereo and they could effectively operate at the detonate forming subliminal so that might be a typo but the the when you do any replication elimination uh at the edges those those will be uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "relayed out so they will they will go all the way to service okay oh uh effectively that's that's what i'm okay that i want confused with it's an edge but yes so so actually the text is correct so the notice vertices the places where you can effectively fork they are uh directly a detected surface and then the the edges the hops it can be a multi-hop that net transit path in that case it's really serial between the edges it's going to be a serial uh set of nodes so i'm sorry it's just like english confusion between vertices and h i can't choose to do those terms um okay now once we we've introduced what we uh mean by the the concept of track which is really that that potential graph and that based on layer three abstraction doesn't really care about the layer um we need to differentiate another thing which is um what is the piping you know what the what the network layer operates on uh how to get from a to b etc from what is being transported within this this pipe um initially for instance in that network when we looked at ipv6 we did not want to introduce too many headers and stuff so we basically said um we identified the flow which is an application layer construct with the five or six double depending on v4 v6 uh that's basically source designation address uh uh sort edition port uh application and upper layer and protocol and if your v6 you can have those bits as well anyway using that basically means that we do the network operation so we process the water based on the color of the water or whatever but at the network layer it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "we can have a lot more power if we effectively use our own network layer uh objects that i call the pipes and android pipe stuff and then we put the water on the pipe at the ingress and it goes out of the grass and this way you can put multiple floors for instance inside inside a single pipe then you can merge multiple pipes um to a bigger pipe and separate those flows uh when you reach this nation etc so basically there is this desire to separate the piping uh which would be the track from from the applications and the network layer construct from from the upper layer signaling which is reflected by the factor so how we do it exactly is is not really said and that's going to be the framework and that could be something which really happens at that net but but it's a goal for us to to be able to transport multiple flows in the same track and signal the front treatment at the network layer as the track as opposed to the flows themselves and keep the flow the application object separate from the network object so separating signaling we would work on the float oh alright i see uh you have your hands wrapped sorry i didn't mean to interrupt too much pascal but this is where crossover into debt net applies now so far i don't see that you've defined anything that's particularly different from the definitions in debt net which does raise and i'm sort of hoping lou is going to jump in and correct me sorry i'm going to cough sorry um i i i'm a little wary about defining new terms that should be very similar to the terms that already exist in internet i understand we're going to build into perio functions etc but how how or why is this different it's maybe my lack of understanding"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "that that would be the discussion on the mailing list uh on on loose email right how much try can i see that who is joining but uh this was just this morning so we could not have a thread on it but basically we we will have this this uh track versus uh t uh uh protection path discussion and see if we can convert uh track into t protection or if if if uh we want to be more specific into exactly what works about and then we'll give the voice to please look no sorry i guess i need more coffee um rick i think you're you're right on um the i agree with the comment is uh that there's a lot here that's similar and there's just some new terminology that if we can align um we'll be in good shape so largely what pascal said i think another question is um are we really limited just to ipv6 uh yeah yeah so yeah yeah for later but yes oh rick brought it up so he asked for me to comment so i commented uh i'll wait to the end thanks yeah i i i put up your email actually luke and i wish at the end of this presentation to go through it have four items and i would like to to make sure that they are all discussed uh but yes and and the answer is certainly not i mean i have personally i have no idea that it's it's it's i understand it's a mistake i i can wait it's only because rick asked okay okay so so let's move on um yeah so the basically the architecture focuses on on one item that joins to another point of look what is raw basically uh right now this architecture focuses on just this udalu is that all that relative on the variable could mean certainly not so if we want to make the term raw generic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "enough to really mean reliable and available wireless probably we need to to say that this architecture focuses on one aspect of making a wireless relay board available and that aspect this particular architecture is really focusing on the huda loop and then probably to answer uh that other part of of luke's review what we are doing right now is probably not you know the overarching architecture of anything that could be you know that could make wireless uh really more available but really uh this this uda loop and the psc that we are building to to uh complete the loop so maybe we need to to or something uh when you say the raw architecture we should basically say this architecture or something because it's not everything that you could do for a labor wireless it's it's very specifically handling this this loop so the determiner i mean i've put a link here it's it's 40 or 50 years old it probably started in the military if i like the history of it um it's really this loop of you know observing a fact and that's really where the oem comes in orienting is more like applying intelligence and you know the what you learned from the past for instance uh to to say oh based on that observation there is there is the sort of thing it should be doing and and in our case probably if we have a pc and that's another question if we have a pc computing uh the the track um then the pc could also come with some recommendations on how to use it that would that would be what orientation would mean for us i think some some intelligence of uh how to to use the subset of the truck for a particular packet because of the particular"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "condition of this time and the decision is is our plc engine uh basically making a decision based on the observation and the orientation you compile those two you match them and you say oh here is what they should be doing and and then the uh the action is the actual signaling uh how you copy the packets and multiple paths and how you signal that so that's that's pretty much the the focus of this document uh which is called raw architecture like you said but we need to to figure out uh inside the document how would you say the raw architecture what we need to do exactly and that's that smooth point so more under the loop i mean you've seen that number of times it's in the architecture but basically obviously with oem oreos based on you know pc metal information about the graph uh decide and that would be the psc decision and act and that's how we use the terpario which which extend the pre of data that net features um so robert says that not we have interesting use cases where actually some pieces of the path are not necessarily deterministic in terms of uh fully bounded latency for instance when you look at the access network and we focus on the first half which can be wireless 5g wi-fi some things and multiple technologies we don't have control on the rest of the way and it might be very very different but at some point we need to to make a decision on depending on cards by not reliability and so far to provide for the service level objective uh associated to this back-end and that's still a raw decision so there is a little bit of uh non-overlap as long as that naturally requires that every every uh node underway is deterministic and that requirement comes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "from it comes with the body latency so reliable and variable does not necessarily mean bonding latencies many times it will but it's reliable means you have an objective and you need it if that objective uh that objective has bodybuilders you need to beat that if that objective has you know so much of nine so many notes in the row etc but you have enough buffer for the latency um that really you don't need to go into the gory uh aspects of of uh that net and tsn for instance you know the back end of wireless access can be considered relatable enough and low latency enough then then you're done okay so you know right basically uh splitting some functions of the pce because in our cases that would be translated pushing the reaction to the network and basically you can see the pc as the brain and then there will be loose discussion on whether there's always a pc and yes it's an architecture we need to to decide that is there always a pc or not probably not but we need to rely on that uh on this email and then the psc which really exports the the data plane short-term solutions uh selection from the pc and there is how the takes place so the architecture shows those confidence and places them and shows their relationship normally as i said it should not discuss effective protocols it should not say it's this protocol that protocol and for instance for iam it's a very vague term that's perfectly fit with what we want at this level the only exception and then a bit on this slide is the lip i don't know if it's fair because now we say oh it's still if it's now but there's no no real family but the leap"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "itself is a family also so it seems to me that using dilip as the term is broad enough just like using oam is broad enough and we i mean if that if i'm wrong on that then please give me a term but then compasses ddp and its family but that's probably the only case where i effectively list in a specific protocol kind of so the status of the document so within the split uh right after itf on 12 since then we have two iterations uh one for fabric review so many many signs fabrics um so there were a number of um points which were transmitted reformulation clarification and then there was uh they've got a country uh review and uh yes there's more pretty special route of loose issues as well how do you position things versus statement my personal view is is we are kind of a spinning spin off of that net with an extension focused on one specific aspect and with the hope that at some point the work goes uh back into into that next but but we can have done this study uh and i hope it still fits um as we do it we we effectively need to to realize where we have some tension and that includes a path where uh you don't effectively have the net nodes all the way through that can be attention uh the definition of track uh we'll see if that we can fold that back in um but even if it if it stays as a terror maybe that can adapt it i don't know then then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "the the concept of truck is is already present in two other working groups i mean that six station and raw by the way to mean pretty much what we mean here um and then yes the scope and that's that's again a question uh so first by dave and then as well uh for instance lou asks about ipv6 and maybe that's when we can discuss that uh right now there is a sentence somewhere which which points at ipv6 extensions do we leave it to ipv6 or do we want to encompass more stuff and i have absolutely no idea that we we should limit to ipv6 it's just that i have no idea either and how we could do that outside of ipv6 so so um i'm not happy to read the term ipv6 from from the sentence that lewis pointed out now i would be also happy to to find some to have some contribution explaining how we can do something else yes carlos so pascal one question um where do you see potential control playing extensions for for i mean for the pc the the pse doing all this learning and taking decisions do you foresee any control plane extensions need to be done in the future either indented or raw or how do you see that that part just to provide some background on why i'm making that question i'm working on some potential research projects that are looking into how to enable ai based decisions in a raw network in a multi-technology raw network and now we are trying to see where the control plane hooks to enable that application of ai based on monitoring an iem will will fit in the network okay so i see that trick and join with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "you i will give you my entire video request to add stuff so the way it's described right now the intelligence the learning the time series and everything would reside in the central controller and then we have to lose question is it always a central controller but the way it's written right now and happy to modify that but it says there is a central controller that does learning uh based on statistical information like long-term information etc so you can learn your time series you can so it's all statistics and ar is really statistics so that's why it's that it fits now this experience can be translated in new control plain element as you say as you're saying whereby the pce will feed the psc so the psc what sees a real-time event like this link is flapping can make instantly a decision based on all the experience that was digested by the pc so the pc would basically say in that case you do that that tells you the data you know transform the experience in something which is immediately actually by immediately actuated by the psc that's that's why what we mean by orient so the whole goal in role in the raw architecture is effectively uh doing this learning that you talk about beyond feeding that learning into the uh d which is the decision by the plc so yes you will need signaling there between pc and pse in the control plane now do you the second question is do you have the psc at the ingress only or do you distribute it in the different uh oh i just know that which is the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "and if you distribute it then you need some signaling in it would be a data principle for control whereby the intent of the ingress will be propagated to uh the that net relay so they can make appropriate action based on what the ingress intends to do with this we have rick on the line unless you want to doesn't seem to fit exactly your question keep going carlos i think i sort of agree with carlos on this and yes i know i have been promising you a review on this architecture document and i need to to get it done um it's the logical architecture i think is good in terms of the the explicit separation between the pce element and the pse element and lou and i have are having a small discussion about whether an exact pce implementation is required or not and my argument would be as a logical separation of responsibility it's a very good model but i think that needs to be extended down so there is an understanding of the psc communicates with some oam or linked date awareness protocol you know dlapp is an example of that and understanding that there is that southbound communication with the underlying layer two and there is a well there's northbound out of the layer two into the pse and there may well be some southbound communication from the pse back into the layer 2 to say i have understood how that and this is where the track um concept needs to be properly defined i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "understand the observed flows the the tracks of the data i understand the communication that the policy that is being set by the pce and therefore i need you layer two i'm i'm operating as the pse at the moment that diagram here to make this change in order to achieve the policy that is being determined and i think the content is all there i think it just needs a little bit of clarification in the document and i think we have to use the new um svg content because these diagrams are getting so complicated so my comment is is clarity i think we have all the information there but if and i think that might answer some of us questions as if we can say in the architecture this is covered in section three talking about that north-south interface between uh the p this pse stack section yeah so so basically we we probably can improve the uh pc to psc relationship with the orient and the capture of data and maybe the oaf flow flies directly from the the nodes to the pc or it's aggregated by the by the increase i don't know i mean we need to keep it yeah i would i i would i would recommend and i don't want to get too far into this because i should just do this as a proper review but i think we can separate the um the logical concepts of a pse talks to the layer below and commun you know there's a bi-directional communication there separate that from and here is some of the actual mechanics for doing that eg d-lep oam passive active blah blah blah and and sort of separating the detail from the the big concept because the i think in an architecture having that big concept is really good nothing to stop us drilling into more detail but if we separate that then i think it would be more obvious to people like carlos to say oh okay so if i'm doing ai guided prediction then i can influence my my outputs from my"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "model is to influence this part of the architecture and it gives a bit of clarity yeah okay okay i i i need a proper no more questions sorry yeah so the psc seems to combine two separate functions one is the um sort of determination of which tracks are available and then the other is the selection on a per packet basis of which track is used or and that may be one or more and those are concepts that exist already in um sort of more general traffic engineering where uh instead of track if we call it a protection segment uh or protection path depending on the extent of it um that that happens at one time scale and then the uh the selection of which protection function is being used whether you're doing one for one one for n or one plus one or one plus n even um that is uh that's a different time scale and and happens at a different place really in the architecture and i think if we start shifting over to those sort of older terms we can leverage those concepts and that separation and that'll really help clarify the distinction of what you're thinking of belongs in a pce what belongs in the track identification part and what which belongs in the track uh selection part um and again you know those those sort of would be uh a loose path the the the protection segments and then the the actual protection uh switch function"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "um so i i think there's some uh some terminology we can leverage that'll really help clean up uh the uh the concepts here and make it uh so we can delineate the different concepts and and clearly articulate the different functions that are um that are possible and and can be filled in in the raw future yes and you you have to be very very useful there because as you know i mean you have you have all the tea expertise that making sure but basically what we have now is the expression of what we want and now if it's if it fits within something then we can work that out and so just jumping in my with my chair hat on when this working group was formed we had a pretty solid steer from the iab that we shouldn't invent lots of new terminology unnecessarily so um i i think we've got to a good place actually where we have an an architecture which is it's a good draft but we can now look as lou said for alignment with net or tease or existing definitions of paths and tracks and i totally agree with you that there is a difference between the historical path that the package traversed and the future path you which pack you wish packets to follow they are two very different concepts and we need to make sure that terminology is accurate but if we can reuse something existing then we're going to be um much more on charter than if we uh totally reinvent new concepts so i'm all in favor of just doing that kind of gap analysis and making sure particularly with people like lou to advise to say actually this is the same concept to make sure we're aligned yeah and that was for me now be aware that the concept of trunk is already present in the other dtf we are not reforming that term no no no i'm not i'm not saying i i just making sure that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "we've got consistency we're not inventing a new track which is different from somebody else's track no no it is the exact same as 60-ish and raw actually so so we would have to look at that okay so i'm watching the clock tick down and uh i think i'm going to call that your time pascal if that's okay oh i just turned my video on there to politeness yeah so do we the the framework we will do it next time right yeah it does not change any weight split mostly split of the architecture so so just just to cover the framework um we are we held an interim meeting just to discuss these two documents it was uh it wasn't hugely well attended it was attended by carlos pascal even myself i think we we published some minutes of it we will continue to have these meetings um if particularly well where there is still discussion around the architecture document it would be great for those who have a strong opinion about it to get involved just to make progress because the intention of the working group really is as covered in the last ietf meeting the architecture document should be an early document that we push through the working group which contains informational uh information um describing how raw will the problem that raw will tackle and how it will tackle it whereas the framework is very much a living document which we don't intend to publish until pretty much the end of this charter cycle of the working group so we can almost use it as a peer-reviewed notepad of um how these how the architectural concepts are being implemented and how we're tying all these things together without forcing us to get it absolutely firm until this charter cycle of the working group is is complete which should be reasonably prompt because the iab do not like working groups running and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "running and running without a regular recharge uh lou you're in the queue go ahead yeah you mentioned that there was an interim on this document i didn't see an interim announced um uh it wasn't it wasn't an interim on this document it was a uh well no it wasn't it was an interim meeting it was held over ietf webex uh we announced it um i tried to look but it wasn't announced there's an ietf vendor meeting a formal no it was not announced as an interim meeting per se it was it was announced as the beginning of a series of regular meetings to discuss architecture and framework and i think the error was probably mine that i didn't give the subject line quite a crisp enough name to identify it as such and in the future we'll do that yeah that's actually where is going more than the past as the going forward is is uh an intro might a formal intro might be a really good idea since there are some big questions here um and maybe you use that to kick off these other meetings i i i did miss that meeting unintentionally um sorry about that uh and but i think an interim will will force more people's attention um and maybe get some wider attendance and then then maybe move on to uh uh less formal meetings so rick while you may have spoken there i think it's a great idea yeah i'm sorry again the miss speaking was was trying to work out the correct terminology between a a formal virtual interim meeting and a get open get together published on the mailing list about a document so yeah i i take your point about a formal interim i think that's probably a really good idea go on pascal um what would be very useful new uh short term is if you could point on where we could find the actual definitions of of the terms that overlap so we can read them carefully and analyze that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "that would that would be very good the terminology that you would suggest we reuse right um i am i am conscious that we are now actually we've got a little bit of time but uh if that's everything on these two documents yes great i mean the framework was more like through the other piece but we we introduced it and that's good enough for today i mean if you have a tight agenda uh we don't actually have a tight agenda so uh do you want to take five minutes on the framework document they're quite happy uh okay let me share that i need to oh i have to approve [Music] so yeah as we said we we split between the architecture which are the building blocks of here's what we want to achieve and the framework which is the future post-mortem and as of now it's the journal the live journal of what we think we are doing and how we think we're doing it and um the sort of thing that we want and we need is um explaining which use case we're serving and that's that's when for instance uh that was one of the questions by uh dave is doing do you serve the use case of the one-hot access network and just the first stop is wireless and then the rest of the way it could be your 5g core or could be through your enterprise network and android back somewhere where the photos are the applications are eliminated or something like that so um how do we signal the the the tracks for now their tracks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:04",
    "text": "are you using a source rod by the ingress which will basically tag the packets for that behavior or would we support a distributed plc and i guess the same will apply to the pc it wants to the pcb to answer those questions i mean how do we implement the pce is it really a centralized box is it a distributed function in the network uh how do we signal the orientation that's the question by carlos so how does the orient piece operate so all the protocols and and the protocol elements which which will be added to support opens we need to basically point at them very as we elaborate and if we change our minds as we work on then we need to update this document as well so it's really the expectation is it's the live pointer on the things we use and we think we're going to use and when we're done and we think we have a workable solution then we basically close the shop and this document publishes us here is how it works next slide please oh it's me please yes so that's why it's again it's it's it's the dave so i obeyed myself as you can see uh that that's the um assignment this is the just one use case we have many multi multiple use cases we have mesh we have but but here yes this is especially there to illustrate the fact that we cover uh the wireless access where only uh the only monitored network is the first half the radio access network it can be wi-fi 5g whatever and the internet is is best effort hopefully good enough uh if it's your your copyright or factory network uh hopefully it's good enough and low latency but not there can be that that other can be no that's not into it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:03",
    "text": "so that that's basically the same drawing as before but now we'll be talking about how this gets implemented so basically which protocols go into all of those little triangles part of what we will have to to document is how effectively we signal the flows and that's basically the architecture so we don't have to do anything about that so the flows we know that that framework is very clear but how we signal the path on which we place that flow how we extract how we split that um the track into the actual experience of the packet or the package fragments which is what we call the subtract so it's tracks within tracks that go end-to-end between a ingress and egress so how we signal all that in the packets we will have to point on the documents which do that um so that is the road map that we decided long long ago so we have to select appropriate radios and and effective use cases and with the progress we've done the index document and the others are coming uh and the use case that uh carlos just presented which is uh already pushed for uh ietf score uh we're in very good shape so i can i can say we we checked uh this thing now next is is to to uh basically decide how we signal the the the tracks and how we do the adaptation and then we have to talk about the iom there now depending on what the group wants to work on we probably want to have and that was called canon's question again we probably want to have a new item here which is about the orient for me the orient was autoscope mostly i mean it's the pc to pse uh control play"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "um that piece of the loop happens uh is not part of the framework well it has not been documented it doesn't have its peace in the framework but if the group wants to to include that in the discussion then yes we need to have a framework section on on the orient piece so basically which data how it fixed to the controller and how the controller fits its its orientation back into the psc so it's not sufficiently expressed in the framework as it stands and then again uh since we we are we expect to use a lot of work which which is being done elsewhere um we had this list forever i see that peace is not probably enough mentioned uh though it was at the their very initial meetings so probably we need to add these in that list any question i didn't speak about authorship but pretty much um it was the first slide with for now it's it's slow and i uh and then it was just me when i did the split i was expected to work on the architecture so the authorship of this and of the architecture are subject to change obviously go ahead yeah and not me as co-author is aspirational not reflective of reality but maybe future realities what is it the future yes it was the intention right i mean so so to give you access to the documents that allow you to basically publish or what uh your mistake and yeah i appreciate it i i i think let's get the architecture straightened and then we'll come back to the framework thank you yeah yeah this one is you know to be published two years from now three or four i don't know okay and that's pretty much it for me do we have questions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:03",
    "text": "thanks pascal uh i don't think we have any questions i have one point i didn't bother to jump to the queue because uh we kind of jumped to the end i think talking about the pse oh my god my dog is molting everywhere the the psep ce communication control plane um to me that smacks of netconf i mean that seems such a a a standard network management uh control plane given the the speed of speed of communication et cetera it's i i quite happy could be that now at some point we need to point on the solution so either we say it does not exist yet to do it proprietary which is pretty much what we have right now you do your own proprietary young models and what or representing the communication in both directions or we kind of decide that we want to provide some hints and then i mean that's just not done right now i i see that as stretching the scope of the working group to worry about that communication i think we can describe in the architecture the nature of that information so that's the the policy that is arriving and we can talk in terms of of track etc but how that information is carried i don't think it's in scope for the working group at the moment to start developing proprietary protein well not customized protocols to carry that information yes if somebody is excited in writing a yang model that sketches out how that information is carried then that obviously says you know you can use netconf to discuss that that young model it that could be if we feel that we have to define that that would be an obvious next step but i don't think we should burn too many cycles on that at the moment yeah that's pretty much where we are so we haven't seen it okay so moving on um next we have fabrice talking about uh om"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "support i have i will click the magic grant preloaded slides oh sure to be able to have that and i will give you permission to control your slides uh no i've given that to eve i've given that to the wrong person because your name moved around there we go february so you should be able to steer those using the overlay at the bottom perfect right thank you very much uh you've got 15 minutes which i hope is sufficient yeah largely sufficient i will just present the update so here just to have a remainder about the chronology of draft initially we had everything together in the oim draft and it was split in something which is related to date net in general so all the generic aspects of weim has been moved and we focus in this novel argument only on the om specs which are very specific to all so thanks to chevy for his proofreading last year we have made a few modifications i will present now so first of all we introduced another section about the recommendation we are listing in this section uh so typically we are listing the num the specific metrics that needs to be uh supported by the om nodes so typically we focus up to no on the packet there was show adventuring latency and the maximum consecutive failures that must be exposed by all the nodes we also say the fact that we have poor functions that must be currently order sorry and we need to also have some methods to aggregate the statistics to compress everything in the um later and we must also which will support word tracing with hybrid way in this novel uh draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:03",
    "text": "uh we we are specifically the the piggybacking uh problem specifically so piggybacking that's inserting some additional information in existing packets so we we typically had some industrial control readers uh in wireless it may be also interesting to put the packets back to back in the same test slot because in wireless networks and particularly for schedule networks we have a cost for a medium access and the time slot is fixed so we will waste the bond wave so the interest of this kind of schedule networks is to put the uh impacts of the om information in the space of the temple time slot which is not used so that's the image of having control information for free so for free which means only that we have some bandwidth which is wasted however we we are keeping on having some large energy consumption because the transmitter and the receiver are obviously awake for a longer time so yeah we just reduced the cost of any medium access with this piggybacking technique and just to be clear about that we clearly classify the different way so active passive and hybrid active we are sending some probes with test packets with passive we just use database information and with hybrid om we have a mix so typically we may use some counter values or you may piggyback some information and we would just like to insist on the fact that piggybacking and ym techniques are probably orthogonal in the sense fans that's a negative or impacted that's a probe maybe trustee transmitted heroin so we should have in that case we must have in that case dedicated resources or we may encueve the prop so that it can be piggybacked with another data point when we have enough space in at a given time slots so so we are we are kind of stealing the the resources uh that are used for the data"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:02",
    "text": "the data flows so basically that's just to be clear about this classification between oem and piggybacking so the draft is now stable your comments obviously and suggestions are worried welcome so please go ahead and have critics comments and suggestions and thank you and if someone has a question please wise you want any comments any questions pretend to step away for a moment thank you very much for the update and also for the ongoing work on the draft um it's great to hear uh the specifics okay good thank you to be continued on the mailing list um okay i think we are going to move now to um the last presentation which is the multi-domain extensions presentation carlos back to you would you like me to grab the slides or do you want to bring them up please serve the slice and pass me the control and then i will okay okay perfect thanks so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "that is on multi-domain extensions and the purpose of this document is at this stage is mainly to present a problem that is not currently under the scope of the working group as far as we understand but to see whether this potential problem may be of interest and then to identify gaps and things that we may need to consider for this problem to be to be addressed so as i mentioned the current scope of the working group is although i don't think explicitly mentioned but my underlying assumption is focus on on single domain single administrative domain although that may translate also to technological domains if we make a like a one-to-one mapping technology to administrative domain or even if we don't there may be a scenario where multiple technological domains may involve this kind of multi-domain gaps so there are scenarios that we believe and we try to identify some in the draft where we may need to have multi-domain raw for example we may have hosts connected to different broad domains that they need to communicate to each other one host to another host traversing two different domains and one example is maybe large factories where may have uh the different networks organizing domains because of scalability and this kind of things and there may be particular situations in which we still need to connect one node in one domain to another node in another domain and we want that connection to be provided with some reliability availability warranties so the goal of the document is to explore this what are the potential gaps in the architecture in specific technologies that may be oem traversing multiple domains and try to start proposing some initial solution but just to to foster the discussion so this is one example"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "using the ascii art that is in the draft that is not very simple to to show but we have two domains one at the top and one at the bottom we assume that each domain has an associated pce for the path computation and then we have different row notes we are assuming the distributed pse model where each node may be potentially a plc an english node then we have another domain at the bottom with another pce and different nodes and we have these two domains interconnected somehow in the document we don't go into how these domains are interconnected and how the different entities that as we will see in a assembly flow chart are aware of those interconnections there may be solutions different solutions for doing that so we start from the assumption we know or some nodes in the network know how these two domains are interconnected but they are still operating separately and we are trying to provide some solutions to enable host one for example in raw domain one to interconnect or to have a flow with host two in the second domain with some raw warranties so we have some discussion in the document again this is just to foster the discussion in the working group and to see whether this there is an interest but the the first idea that we thought it could be a way of enabling this is that we have the english node in the first domain where we get the request we want to have a communication between host one and host two and the ingress the pse in that domain will request to the pc in that domain i want to have this communication between this node and the nodes that are in the in the second that are connecting to the the english notes in the second domain okay and that the pce will pc1 will know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "that there is a connection with the second domain and will request to the second pc the paths from those nodes to the destination node in the second domain the pc2 will provide somehow we don't go into the details the tracks for that interconnection in the second domain and also the link some metrics about the link quality in those in those parts and with that the pce one will provide to the the ingress pc pse in the first domain about the tracks on each domain the different pscs involved in the other domain in the second domain and some kind of a split of sla that needs to be one and t on each of the domains because then we foresee but this again one initial discussion that its domain will keep track of monitoring and ensuring that the slash on each of the different tracks a domain sorry will be maintained somehow with lim mechanisms that may need to be cooperating somehow so in step number five the english pc pse in the first domain will communicate with the psc's in the english pss in the other domain to basically communicate the tracks that are involved and to enable those psis to have some uh to start doing these domain specific oein mechanisms at each of the domains and at this point each of the involved pscs will be able to compute the the paths or the at the the pse runtime and the oem mechanisms will be in place so as you can see this is a kind of high level initial discussion point but just to trigger some some or some to foster some potential discussion on whether this is something that is of interest for the for the working group or not so the point is not that much into the solution but more into the problem and the potential gaps that we may need to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "to address so just as the final slides is there any interest in this in this problem in the working group now it's not in the charter but maybe in the future there may be many gaps that we need to identify and address for example related to the aim there may be new protocol work needed in case raw recharges to do new protocol at some point in time of course if not that would not be the the case and of course there are some potential relations with deadnet because at the end of the day that they may be also interested in looking into multi-domain issues and that's it from my side just wanted to collect some feedback either now or maybe even better on the mainly list where we can have a sustained discussion so questions comments hi carlos uh it's rick um i'll turn my video on i thank you very much for this work this is this is i think is it really important uh so i i really have have a question and a statement so lou has put a a link in the chat to a generic multi-domain problem statement which is coming from the tease working group yes it is so i i recommend people to have a look at that for reference the other question is the architecture as presented by pascal just earlier um as as it is written has a single pce communicating with uh one or more pses does the working group think we ought to include the multi-domain use case within the architecture or leave the architecture as single domain and take on this work as as a sort of addendum to that architecture this is a very open question may i comment just briefly um i whenever we have talked about um raw and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "whenever we have made reference to the debt net agenda um and charter there is the specific wording in the charter uh about coordinated domains and although it hasn't been a topic of discussion it is uh described that way in the debt net charter so and maybe that's a good segue over to lou i was just going to say that the architecture i think already allows for it where in particular the text that talks about going over uh non-raw aware which i would translate to non-debt net aware uh domains it basically turns you into a multi-domain problem so i think we're all in agreement that it is uh although it hasn't been i wasn't stating an opinion on whether it's a good thing or a bad thing i was just saying that it's already in there it's being alluded to okay yes yes if not focused on it it the problem description um uh already references it both directions so i expressed my question with chair hat on is is carlos are you uh are you requesting working group adoption for this or do you want to get some review comments and burn a few cycles on it first and then what's your feeling at this point i wanted to have some feedback uh not really thinking of adoption or anything that that may come later if there is interest so that was my own my own purpose was to foster discussion on this point and of course if there is interest yes at this point in time and we of course are open to get more people joining the draft the more the better i mean the more people interested the better so yeah no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "no no question at this point i think this is the first time we discussed this so i think it's best to have more discussion before okay thank you eve you still have your oh no you don't you're just in the in the chair section so uh are there any more questions on this topic no okay so uh we actually have half an hour of the session left um so really this is this is an open mic opportunity um if anyone wishes to raise anything that they think might be of interest to the group in general stand up and tell us that we are going in completely the wrong direction and we ought to be looking at whatever some other working group is currently working on in classic ietf style or if there's something we have missed in what we've presented or documented so far or stand up and promote something exciting that's happening in another working group that we ought to be aware of this would be a really good moment well people consider that one thing i will add so i think this came out in one of the earlier presentations i think from pascal talking about um radio specific properties to be discussed as part of the link awareness or the oam feedback between the link layer and the pse component i know there are uh at least one extension to delap being proposed in the man a working group which i believe is meeting in the next session this morning uh to do with specific things such as channel assignment uh frequency bandwidth uh some really very uh radio link layer specific properties that could be um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "announced via a dlap protocol session if anyone is interested in further direction that the d-lab is going in that's in many otherwise anyone else if there is nothing else may i suggest that those of you who have booked out the two hours today for raw take this opportunity to go away and uh do the some of these reviews that you have promised i know i shall be um because the ietf revolves around good quality review and i know the authors of the various drafts in this working group deserve good quality review because they they have put a lot of effort into these documents eve do you want to add anything no i don't thank you for leaving the charge particularly given the hour well i'm in europe so it's easy for me and i also want to um thank both karina and carlos for um their very much appreciated help that's great and for those of you in the room hello are we outnumbered i am very jealous of those of you sat in the room um i wish i had been able to meet you in person this time around uh as a rough intention from the chairs we intend to be in person uh in at the atf-114 which would be very nice to meet you all again and speak to you again after two and a half years of of isolation but we've never met in person by the way no even i have never met in person we have we have chaired this working group for two and a half years without meeting in person so that's an all credit to to the internet but it would actually be quite nice to meet um on that note if there is nothing else i think we should probably close this meeting early any objection"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "there we go and we are giving everybody half an hour to go away and quietly read some raw documents and add comment to the mailing list uh no objection from our a.d which is always good so um in which case thank you all very much uh extra thank you from me as well to carina and carlos for for being our chair delegates in the room luckily we didn't have a mad rush to the mic and everyone behaved and meet echo did us proud so thank you very much i'm going to call this a stop and um speak to you all on the list and in person and we will probably if we arrange a virtual interim we will publicize it in advance and properly on the mailing list so please keep an eye open for that for a bit more of a deep dive into architecture and possibly a little bit of multi-domain maybe i don't know right and even if we don't uh schedule an interim we may we'll do a better job this next time of creating a subject line that announces um a regular regularly held series of meetings to discuss those documents yeah indeed okay uh thanks all uh in which case i think we should probably close the meeting i'm gonna work out how to do this i don't know how to do it it's the very right most icon in meat echo at the top it looks like a gas station an old gas station you you you press the button you do it okay oh no thank you all thanks pascal that just leaves the room thanks to all the presenters yeah thank you very much everybody um and authors we may just have to leave this room open with nobody in it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "uh me techo we have no idea how to close the uh how to close the meeting um it's automatically closed when the session determines but there we go also in the beginning starting 15 minutes early okay perfect thank you corinna uh in which case i'm going to leave you to it and make myself a cup of coffee thank you very much everybody thank you very much so it worked out fine [Music] what i'm gonna and i will check out some people wanted to meet me and i have a student taco in half an hour let's see okay so you just contacted me because of sba research"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:10",
    "text": "yeah so i i have an agreement with sba research since two and a half years to be one of the key researchers here because i'm involved in the big security project concordia where they are partners and then they just asked me with my expertise of iit security"
  }
]
