[
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:25",
    "text": "I don\u0027t know what okay yeah the projectors are you connected your Mac no sorry we were having some AV issues here okay we should be good now this is the net contracting group all right so let\u0027s started its time with me is lo he\u0027s replacing he\u0027s in place for Kent Watson who is not he\u0027ll live actually Kent is attending the meeting remotely so Lu is helping me out oh this is the note well anything you say or discuss in this room or in the hallways is covered by the note well at idea the blue sheets should have been circulating make sure you do sign up when you are speaking in make sure you\u0027re using the microphones and for people who are trying to scribe make sure that you name state your name slowly and so for them to be able to make a record of it okay so Lu\u0027s gonna help me with Jabbar thank you we do have etherpad would really appreciate people adding they\u0027re adding to the etherpad and taking whatever minutes we can for the meeting so the RFC is published since the last meeting we have a few mostly the yang notification yang push set of drafts so congratulations to the earth all the author\u0027s for having finally finished that work with the status for the list "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:05:26",
    "text": "of charted workgroup items we still have the what we call the net compress count client suite of drafts that Kent is working in Kent and a couple of others are working on the HTTP client server document did go through work group adoption and we had a HTTP business and I had a discussion this afternoon to try to resolve any concerns that they had so I think we have come to a resolution that they\u0027re okay with the work proceeding in that con so they were group document so it is of a group document now and I\u0027ll work with the authors to try to address some of the issues that the HTTP business Aires raised during that meeting the yang push notification capabilities is pass working group last call I serve allies did update the document in data tracker so I think it\u0027s we\u0027re ready to go ahead with publication of that document and the remaining two drafts yang push notification messages still work in progress I expect that there is a presentation that will be done I hopefully by hang if not then by Erich remotely and finally we have of course the HTTP notification which is a fairly new document so here\u0027s the agenda we\u0027ll start with of course the status and issues on client-server suite of drafts before we move to notification messages and notification capabilities presentation and we\u0027ll round up the charted list of items with my presentation on HDTV based notification transport for configured subscription sorry in the non-charter items we have two drafts to new drafts that the authors have published fairly recently and I hope we\u0027ll get a chance to hear from the authors and for anyone who has read those two documents any questions before we get started you\u0027re on tonight ah yes hey this Tim Carey with Nokia the udp-based publication channel for streaming telemetry do we know what the status of that is it used to be an adopted draft but I see it fell oh yeah yes so the that document I don\u0027t want to say got unadopted I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:27",
    "text": "think we the author\u0027s decided to merge that work with multi streams originator and unfortunately we don\u0027t have a presentation of multi streams originator in this session so for all practical purposes I think we\u0027re just looking at one document which is the multi stream so originator document hi can you hear me yeah did someone try to say something remotely yeah this is me can\u0027t can hear me Oh Kent okay it\u0027s not is it too quiet if anything a little louder okay softer yeah that\u0027s better okay yes for some reason not showing up in the queue but you\u0027re talking right because I just simply had a microphone button I wanted to respond to Tim on that last question go ahead if the UDP work itself was suspended let\u0027s just say that the intent is that they would or someone will it republish any a draft that would be a udp-based notice for those subscribed notifications work does that make sense the multi-stream originator draft is really just about how to send notifications from wine carts or satellite systems and it\u0027s not itself with respect to UDP in any way okay channeling Tim Kerry he says yes thanks Kent okay you\u0027re up Kent okay so I\u0027ll press the button join the queue can you see me E yes okay great good afternoon everyone morning for me yourself and I just hooked up and trying to eat on the house as far as the slides go are you gonna protect them I don\u0027t see them yet they are being projected okay I again don\u0027t see them but I\u0027ll just simply say next slide okay great again welcome well I\u0027m not there but I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:11:27",
    "text": "still there today we\u0027re going to be presenting the again the client-server suite of drafts and you can see that they\u0027re now all adopted the HTTP client server draft is in grey because while it\u0027s adopted it\u0027s not yet posted so um well actually I guess still be talking about the Kay Watson draft that was published before next slide please oh by the way and I can\u0027t even see if you have index to the next slide what I did see is the audience in case Lorenzo or anyone\u0027s listening if you could somehow pan to their slides for me and I\u0027d be great so I\u0027m not gonna go over this slide and in detail but a lot of work has been done since the last ITF all the graphs have been updated twice next slide please this presentation is going to go over six different item or topics and I we have 45 minutes for this discussion I can\u0027t imagine it\u0027ll take that long next slide please so first we\u0027ll be talking about key formats next slide please okay so in the e crypto types draft there is we\u0027ve been discussing for quite some time how to support algorithms or I should say the algorithm note when when having public or private keys or even symmetric keys it\u0027s important for the client to be able to know what is the that algorithm itself that is I see the slides now from the video zooming in to that\u0027s funny from the from the algorithm without will with algorithms being used and we were actually using the algorithm node before for two purposes the first was exactly what I just said what was the algorithm being used but the second was how was it being encoded and sometimes a particular key value can be encoded in multiple different ways the simplest explanation for that might be if it\u0027s binary versus ASCII but also there\u0027s other kinds of encoding so for instance is it a rocky versus a key that\u0027s been embedded inside a content message syntax or CMS structure so we were we again we\u0027ve been discussing how to encode the algorithm field for some time and and the crooks of that discussion has been mostly with regards to should it be identity or an enumeration should that be in IETF file or an eye on a file should be one file or multiple files and what we\u0027re still having some of that discussion but also "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:29",
    "text": "part of that was in the description statement for that algorithm value would be how was that value encoded and while that may be a sufficient and viable strategy it was or it was thought that we could tease out that aspect of it and somehow simplify the remainder and enable the remainder to be determined more simply so hence this key format node was you came to life the key format node is a in a Dana B and on the left hand side you can see there\u0027s a base called key format and then there\u0027s three immediate descendant identities called public key private key and symmetric key by the way they all have format after them sorry actually public key format and symmetric key format and then underneath those there\u0027s also additional sub identities and also they\u0027ll they also have - format at the end of Emily I think I was trying to make the slide simpler and that\u0027s why I did that you can see at the the last two identities for private key format are controlled by an if feature statement and as well as the last two of the symmetric key format so here the C feature format statement is trying to this is where there\u0027s a different encoding but we\u0027re in one aspect you could that key could be expressed as a role value or alternatively as a structure or a value that\u0027s been embedded inside of another structure the one symmetric key itself is a CMS structure but it says it\u0027s just a man more technically it\u0027s I think it\u0027s a signed data CMS structure and and even more particularly the sign data has in it within it a variable that describes what is the embedded structure and if so it\u0027s a specific kind of embedded structure inside that signed data structure both these other two formats are defined by other artists ease next slide please and then so there\u0027s the identity hierarchy so that\u0027s one aspect and I should say that that is inside the crypto types or I hate to have crypto types that yang module and also inside that same module are three groupings the two and the left are for a symmetric keys and one on writers for symmetric keys and and these groupings have been around for some time but they the part that\u0027s in red is the important part you can see in the top left the public key grouping it now contains well first it contains the leaf algorithm so that leaf algorithm has been there for some time and the part that\u0027s in bright "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:17:31",
    "text": "green is is sort of a the what we\u0027ll be discussing in the next the next topic but you know how do we describe algorithms and and are the identities her enumerations etc but it\u0027s that value but then the second leaf is the new one so this is a leaf that is containing an identity ref to a public key format so there\u0027s that and then and then you can see the other group in the asymmetric key pair grouping it uses that grouping uses the public key grouping because every private key also has a public key but it distinctly identifies its own private key format and yes both the public and private key values could be expressed differently most commonly they would be done similarly right but it is possible and you know and actually in some cases necessary I suppose if you want to encrypt your private key but the public key is still a role value so it\u0027s still possible I mean it\u0027s necessary that they could deviate or differ in their encoding strategies so there\u0027s so that\u0027s how a symmetric Keys the groupings for h to metric keys have been modified and then on the right hand side it\u0027s almost the same strategy but just there\u0027s only the symmetric key value so here the leaf is called key format as opposed to public key for Landon and private key format so that\u0027s the gist of this strategy and before I ask the question if there\u0027s any thoughts or concerns I\u0027m gonna see what I want to say no I guess that is it oh oh yeah I\u0027m sorry what I wanted to say was and I don\u0027t have a slight it\u0027s not on the slides but uh if after having done this most of the prior use of the algorithm leaf has been replaced with this new key format leak if you were to look at the entirety of the remainder of the egg modules you\u0027ll see that the only remaining use of the algorithm leaf at least from the clients perspective of being able to you know like the primary use is in the actions generate private key and generate symmetric key so you can clearly tell that when a client is trying to generate a key it would need to be able to use the algorithm to say what kind of key that is generate so that is one of the most crucial remaining uses of the other legacy algorithm value and and then and then of course it\u0027s also still there for more of a read-only view I mean it is still writable but you couldn\u0027t write it just arbitrarily but it\u0027s it\u0027s definitely the case that if if a person if another client were to connect and wanted to look at the key just having "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:32",
    "text": "the key format by itself it\u0027s not enough they would actually need that read-only value what is the algorithm in order to have a full appreciation but but so anyway what I\u0027m trying to say is this key format is taking over the most of the the prior use so the algorithm leaf okay so with that are there any thoughts or concerns with this approach none locally okay and I don\u0027t think I see anything on me that go either so great all right so it so I think it\u0027s it\u0027s working out well I\u0027ll just say that balázs K from Erickson has been tracking this and and at first he had some mild concerns but then I replied on list about how the advantages of it and I think I want to over but nonetheless will continue this discussion on the list next slide please and so we\u0027ll be talking about algorithms next slide after that all right as I was saying the algorithm leaf is still there and it\u0027s its uses not as much as it was before but nonetheless is still there and we still needed to resolve the issue that we\u0027ve been trying to resolve for a long time current previously there were many type that were typed us inside ITF crypto types module and now those type deaths have been moved into external I Anna or I should say external modules three of them and one and there\u0027s two aspects to that statement well the first is that they\u0027re each kind of modular or or I should each type of algorithm has been moved into its own module so there\u0027s one module that\u0027s specific for symmetric algorithms and otherwise for asymmetric algorithms and and another one for hashing algorithms also I shouldn\u0027t mention we we\u0027ve reduced the total number of algorithm types I think before there may have been eight or nine different kinds of algorithm types but we reduce them down to just these three these three being the ones that are necessary for defining the Netcom and restaurant server modules and the remainder really not necessary for our work but it you know in the fullness of time important to other working groups oh sure but not something that we need to take on ourselves that\u0027s why just these three types of algorithms are being focused on so and then so that\u0027s the first excellent aspect that we\u0027ve broken up into three the other is that we also move them from being IETF prefix to INF prefix and and actually I have a separate slide that talked some that specific point so first "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:23:32",
    "text": "on that you can see in the lower left each module has a type that so you actually just moved the type that from the crypto types module to the other module and here\u0027s an example of that type def you can see that this type def is defining an enumeration so it\u0027s not an identity we may want to have a discussion as if it should be an enumeration or identity I actually think the enumerations are probably simpler to work with but it could even be as simple as a just string all here only the symmetric algorithm types are being shown but of course a symmetric n\u0027 and thus and hashing algorithms follow legs identical strategy of being a type def containing enumerations so before I move on to the next slide any comments about this what I would discuss so far nobody locally okay next like this okay so I just said I was gonna go back and talk about the a and a part of it the intent behind the IANA prefix was that we\u0027d be able to somehow transfer the maintaining maintenance of these three modules and to to idea to I Anna that if other working groups were to publish new algorithms whether it be a symmetric algorithm or an asymmetric algorithm that their publication process would somehow trigger an event that Diana would pick up and automatically update the one of these modules and publish it and this strategy has been taken with other other modules and I looked I did look at a couple other Diana modulus and one thing I noted about them was that it seemed that there\u0027s a one-to-one mapping between those modules and a particular registry and/or actually to a particular RFC whether it\u0027s not as a particular registry I think is still I\u0027m not sure about that but but in scanning these type ducts in these three modules there was I noticed that there\u0027s a multiplicity of RFC\u0027s that were being defined and so this could you know it wasn\u0027t clear to me how would I in a know when an algorithm from for instance a new RFC one that didn\u0027t exist before was supposed to be added into this particular you know will cause this particular gang module to be needing to be augmented and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:37",
    "text": "think that was so really I should probably pause here and ask if there\u0027s questions that was but I don\u0027t have that little thing that says that yes I see someone at the microphone vodka very sexually an ongoing discussion regarding my draft in the NS op working group I don\u0027t know if that actually it now appeared in in the main idea of mailing list so I guess this is more a net mode thing to consider but you asked how would I Anna know when an algorithm should be added so my question to this question would be how would I on uh know that an algorithm should be added to the registry itself because as soon as this is decided then it should be clear or at least I hope to IANA that the yanghwa you should be updated basically at the same time so I really don\u0027t see a big problem with this the only problem is that may be careless readers of that RFC could take the more you contained there as the most recent revision of the registry which needn\u0027t be the case because then the module lives in in under the the IANA care may have new revisions but I don\u0027t know how to solve this easily because we have we don\u0027t have any any like formal language for writing the module templates as usage easier so this is really quite a difficult proposition I think that makes a perfect sense to me that there would be a registry that and and you know a multiple RFC\u0027s to be feeding into about what registry and when that registry gets updated it would cause a cascading effect updating the module that makes sense in theory but I think for us in particular there may be that may be challenging and the reason why is because we\u0027re working with different protocols in particular SSH and TLS and I fully imagine there being registries that are around the algorithms use for SSH and its registry is being used for algorithms that it uses around TLS but we\u0027re looking for something that\u0027s more Universal and I don\u0027t know if that particular registry exists that could become our challenge yes Rob Wilton Cisco so I definitely think this is something that should be handled by something like an I ana registry I think that\u0027s where these need to get to I think that it that how to update an RFC tab these new protocols and would be a mistake I thought with the IANA registries there\u0027s ones where you could have like experts that were assigned to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:29:37",
    "text": "add values in so it may be that you could assign the yang doctors or net mod or something to update that registry if that was an easy way to do so maybe there\u0027s other ways to solve this problem that involves different human input into updating the registry but I think we want to somehow get to a solution where it is in Ayana is my impression okay and just as you were saying that Rob thank you it occurred to me that what I was just saying about how there\u0027s been an association to your specific registries we could make updates the ANA request could be if those registries are being updated then please allow them to be a trickle down update to this other registry which which is in indirect it may not be one-to-one but it with the human expert they could do that particular you know translation and make it happen that\u0027s a good idea yeah makes sense okay okay next slide please and so sort of rounding out the discussion about algorithms is a you know an S it\u0027s necessary so there\u0027s one thing which is defining the dictionary of all algorithms it\u0027s necessary to have a dictionary of of the algorithms for interoperability and it could be that each vendor came up with around you know the strengths but that wouldn\u0027t help with interoperability so having a universal dictionary is important but there\u0027s another aspect which is which subset of that Universal dictionary does a particular server support and I this discussion has been on the list also recently so for those have been following that you know some of this will be a repeat but nonetheless I\u0027ll go over it so first it\u0027s each module currently is - or I should say each of those three I Anna modules that we just discussed it is currently defining a config false list of algorithms that are supported by that server and so an example that you can see they they all kind of follow the pattern of supported - and what kind of algorithm it is - algorithms it is config false it\u0027s a list and then just a list of Leafs with with references to that type def or I shouldn\u0027t say reference but using that type 10 that we discussed in the previous slide so that\u0027s again what we currently have two questions relate that the first is instead of having a global list should we be having instead s a such Association TLS specific lists and just sort of back into that discussion it was partin\u0027s comment a couple of days ago this was late last last week where I was saying that you know a particular application or server may use different or be able to use different algorithms "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:37",
    "text": "in different locations and if you think about how that application has been constructed with libraries one part of the vacation may use one library and Sables support certain algorithms another part of that application to use a different library and southern algorithms so there\u0027s that aspect so you know that I think the intent behind a global list would be when you\u0027re thinking like France\u0027s Fitts mode where you\u0027re you\u0027re taking a you know some you know there\u0027s the set of algorithms and then oh you turn on FIPS mode so now it\u0027s a subset of r and then both those statements are sort of there\u0027s a global list but this is a more refined concern where we\u0027re saying that it\u0027s actually related to a particular libraries that are being used and hence there\u0027s it\u0027s actually a variable or the list various or potentially could vary based on where than in the modeling tree it\u0027s being used so there\u0027s sort of the most granular way of doing that would be every single location where the leaf but the algorithm leaf has been used it could be there could be a list there or maybe an action statement that could return a list but that\u0027s highly granular and and maybe ideal but from a theoretical perspective but not very practical from a modeling perspective it seems like a possible sweet spot would be to focus on the algorithms and so have one list in instead of having the single global list instead of having or splitting it essentially into two globalists one one of those lists being specific to SSH and the other to TLS and so in and to be clear because we\u0027re talking about three different algorithm types there\u0027d be 340 as SSH a.m. 340 less a total of six of these global list that\u0027s the current idea any thoughts about that I know that when I were discussing you applied better why this is Hank I can\u0027t I think I somehow find myself in the slide I think is very important to do this the since you were highlighting I\u0027m not an expert in this so probably this group is and I think one will be selected or a set of them I think this somehow swaps about who trusts store because all these algorithms and the big asymmetric are symmetric or hashing they will have in the end the key material used for these algorithms and I think nevertheless that is trust raw side there are hints and methods to find and identify these keys and I think this belongs also here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:37",
    "text": "because these have to be defined like in the same Bay I assume with the algorithm there comes an identification for the pay dirt for the algorithm and I\u0027m probably that is not a part of the key store because that is too late if you go to the store you already assume your how to find it so there has to be a link between the key identification or key hint or identification hint they love multiple names for this here on this side of the crib so types things and and maybe I\u0027m wrong but I just wanted to give this as a comment okay alright I\u0027m not sure it seems like maybe add a second comment but we respond to the first one I think what you\u0027re just discussing right now is war what I was saying about the need for having the global dictionary the you know what are all the others what are all the type tests for interoperability here what we\u0027re talking about is trying to identify the subset of those algorithms that a particular server supports and and so I think it\u0027s actually but but that\u0027s a different that\u0027s a different discussion and to that first one what is the global dictionary of algorithms a so if you actually look a little bit deeper in right here we\u0027re talking about the crypto types draft so there\u0027s the universal set of algorithms at that level but then if you were to look into the SSH and TLS specific drafts you\u0027ll see that they have mapping tables and in particular I mean the SSH and TLS protocols they they have very specific algorithms enumerations values strings that are sent over the wire and so there\u0027s these mapping tables that you know for those who are familiar with ssh specific algorithms or TLS specific algorithms be mindful that well the algorithm was normally called foo in in TLS it\u0027s actually you know bar here in the crypto type trap so there\u0027s that mapping okay Rob Wilson Cisco\u0027s so I think this is part of a generalized problem of basically server capabilities and more I think that we actually as a working group or maybe in net mod need to look at that more about giving advices capabilities and putting instance data file formatting and having that they were off a box and that\u0027s passed the work that balázs has been doing but I don\u0027t think we\u0027ve defined all the capabilities but I see this is a subset of those however that work will take a long time so I think what we\u0027re looking for here is I sort of stopped that measure there\u0027s no B in the short term and I think that I either of what you propose there work either global list or I think your suggestion of having six lists that seems reasonable to me I look like I wouldn\u0027t go anything more complicated than that though I\u0027d keep it um I think what you\u0027re proposing then makes sense okay great thank you looks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:45",
    "text": "like the microphone line is empty so I\u0027ll move on to a second question here number two how are these lists to be used cannot use a leaf ref right I mean they\u0027re config files lists and well okay not only are they config false list but they\u0027re also polymorphic in the sense that when you have a the reference to the to the to the what am I trying to say okay so actually well okay what I\u0027m thinking is that you would have I can\u0027t forget that part forget the polymorphic part but definitely it\u0027s it\u0027s a config pulseless and you can\u0027t have a leaf rough to config pulseless so again what would be the intention for how these lists are being used we could have in the algorithm description statement which would be in crypto types something like what\u0027s in yellow at the bottom of the screen it is recommended that each protocol sht etc makes available a list of the subsets of algorithms supported I could maybe that\u0027s a different statement so there\u0027s sorry that wasn\u0027t a clean site way there\u0027s two comments being made here but yeah so there\u0027s first there\u0027s a you know we need a set of strategies so whenever an algorithm or protocol is trying to define you know mappings we say we should you should create these other lists but once the list exists how are they being used I guess it\u0027s just simply the client referring to the list you know opportunistically optionally i should even add to try to determine what it is the server supports before they kind of configure the server and worst case if they send a bad value to the server it will fail you know RPC air the request so maybe there\u0027s no need to have a leave for effort with this so before robert gets on the mic we have a question in java from martin asking do we need a similar list for key format supported and supported key format sorry okay so the answer martin\u0027s question the oh well there is because and we didn\u0027t actually actually can you is it possible to go back to slide number five just quickly so on slide five you can like well in particularly you can see here those if feature statements the one symmetric key the asymmetric was right in the yeah and one asymmetric key the those are CMS structures which are more complex or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:46",
    "text": "let\u0027s say less common commonly used than the raw key values if you were to use open SSL and ask it to generate a key or even if necessary and ask it to generate key neither of those tools are going to generate you a one symmetric key or one asymmetric key structure by default so oh but it\u0027s necessary to have well first off its it\u0027s a in some cases it\u0027s preferred to use those structures because they do two things they actually internally embed the algorithm identifier which is somewhat redundant and maybe we should gloss over that fact because a lot of structures embed values that are also I\u0027ll you know redundantly expressed outside the structure but more importantly it\u0027s necessary to you oh they also support attributes so for instance a private key can be tagged with attributes that it\u0027s only to be used for signing or it\u0027s only be used for encryption or you know these kinds of things that what in TLS certificates might be referred to as key usage so these one or these that one asymmetric key structure has the ability to capture the key usage where the raw value has no way of doing that so in some applications it may be important to use the CMS structure over the raw value just to have that ability but then lastly it\u0027s actually necessary to use these structures the the one asymmetric key and and one Selectric key structures if you wish to encrypt the keys there\u0027s just no other way of or no standard way I should say to encrypt or Express keys that have been encrypted other than by using these structures so in all of that response what I\u0027m trying to say is I view the use of these structures is sort of advanced you you know the the the simple get it to market as quickly as possible application is unlikely to want to support these advanced structures hence the desire to put them under feature statements and more specifically answering your question you asked about should we have config false lists I don\u0027t think we need to have config false lists like the ones that we\u0027re talking about here because we have a feature statements and you know you connect to the server you go to gang library you ask the young library what features do you support that is in a way a config false list of of those features that have been supported so the only thing that\u0027s not really being captured is is it granular enough yeah features are a global whereas do we need to have you know the statement you know specific press sage versus kill us and maybe that was your question so I think he has a modern as a follow-up question suppose I support as a search public key but not subject public key info for my eyes as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:46",
    "text": "such keys psyche I can\u0027t I don\u0027t have a job can you repeat that sure suppose I support SSH public key but not subject public key info for my search keys oh okay right actually I think Martin I had this very conversation on the list and in the reply to that question I was thinking that the degree must statements whereby in the SSH I guess this would be the the IETF SSH server and ITF estate client modules where they are using the asymmetric and symmetric key structures that we was on the screen a few slides back when they\u0027re using those groupings they would refine them with a must expression that would say the SSH key must be an ssh public key and and and and not a cannot be a subject public key whereas in the TLS module it would be saying though it\u0027s my statement will just be saying that it must be a subject public key and not a necessary public key so i think we could enable those downstream modules that are using those groupings to to cause to in inject that discrimination since this is hangar the Mike I just had a question I don\u0027t have a question any more yes I think that\u0027s make sense okay all right so I can jump back to slide 1000 or unless there\u0027s another comment about that question just a quick but from ardent saying fine with me less flexibility but I think that is okay then back to slide 10 this well Rob is asking a question yes so Rob Wilson said going back to the question on the second question I think it\u0027s almost the same answer as before that I think we solve this as part of wider capabilities work I think and so I think what you\u0027re suggesting are just saying you update the description statements I think that\u0027s fine I think that\u0027s sufficient for this I wouldn\u0027t try and do anything more sophisticated here to keep it simple now and say this could be solved in future hopefully if there\u0027s interest okay great thank you all right next slide then and we\u0027ll be talking "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:46",
    "text": "next the discussion is about role public keys and appreciate keys next slide okay so what\u0027s currently published in crypto types 12 and trusts or seven is actually no longer current in the sense that the you know the the submission window closed and but after it closed there were ongoing discussions on list that that kind of moved the ball down the road a little bit so for those that reviewed that the drafts that are currently published you know this and work on the list this may be new but an early review of those particular modules twelve and seven identified no need to define new types that the existing types and groupings could be used so so and remember what we\u0027re talking about is for a number of years we\u0027ve had already the notion of symmetric keys and asymmetric keys and what we\u0027re talking about here in TLS normally uses x.509 certificates but it\u0027s also possible to use raw public keys and symmetric keys but what is the raw public key well that\u0027s basically an asymmetric key what is a pre-shared key well it\u0027s basically a symmetric key so that was the observation that was made by the other participant of balázs cake and and so the thinking was you know rather than defining new types and groupings specific for Rob puppies and ppreciate keys such as those that you\u0027ll find inside crypto type 12 and Trust or seven instead can we not repurpose the existing groupings that we have that makes a lot of sense to me and so the proposal that was on list and on screen is essentially to a in trust or I think it on in the current public published document you\u0027ll find there\u0027s a list of raw public keys there have been better trusted and then also the list of the pre-shared keys that were trusted and so that the lists appreciate keys have been removed actually not specifically because it\u0027s an overlap but because it\u0027s unnecessary if you are having a pre shared key I mean it\u0027s a shared key so your that that same symmetric key value that\u0027s being used both sort of as your private key and also as as the public key but it\u0027s not saying private and public doesn\u0027t make sense because is symmetric the same key value and it\u0027s a secret value and you\u0027d want that secret to be stored in key store not in trust or so the observation being is that that value would be stored in the key store and and you wouldn\u0027t we wouldn\u0027t want it to be also stored in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:46",
    "text": "the trust or the exact same value so so simply we removed pub pre-shared keys or PS case from trustor but but kind of that\u0027s that itself is not really following the statement I was just making above here you see there are certificates in separately also raw public keys I we could have a discussion if we want to I mean these are different things right so it was certificate is it is a public key that\u0027s been signed by an issuer so that\u0027s a particular thing raw public key is well it\u0027s you know it\u0027s not having any of that extra attribution associated with it so that\u0027s definitely it seems to be a separate thing necessary to store distinctly in the trustor and hence why it\u0027s still there but on the right hand side sorry before I go to right hand side going down to the bottom of the key store there was also in a key store well actually there wasn\u0027t when I had worked with me to update the trustor we did not actually update also the key store but there was some discussion about should we also be able to image key store and so that and oh we would find it it would be necessary first thought was well previously we had a symmetric keys and symmetric keys and so the first naive was let\u0027s add all also to that list Rob cookies and PSK so it\u0027d be a total of four things or four descendants underneath the key store but then upon the observation that really Rob appliques are asymmetric keys and and PS Ches are symmetric keys we collapse them and and now if they are as sort of the proposals as they are on the screen I think I\u0027ll pause right there I see Hank there\u0027s at the mic yeah yeah again this is Hank so I think there\u0027s a distinguishing feature that we are collapsing but is not applying to both sides of the coin which is but I try to come to before the key IDs so pre-shared keys have preferred an even sometimes very strong recommended way to identify the pre-shared keys because there can be multiple of them and that is different to other symmetric keys so so I agree with the notion that apparently pairwise symmetric keys or pre-shared keys whatever you want to call them are symmetric because in the new interpretation of the acronym it literally says pairwise shared a symmetric key sorry and so that\u0027s true but the pre shared key identification and typically you\u0027ll go with an ID into the system we don\u0027t have the hash always or something more concrete but at the ID and there is recomended identity hints for PS case for TLS and I think these do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:46",
    "text": "not apply to all symmetric keys so how do you deal with these different kind of ideas to collapse the concept and symmetric simply as that so hey can you help me I understand that just for a second at these these IDs are these IDs communicated on the wire yeah they just go they are okay okay so then I was gonna say that you know what\u0027s not being shown in the screen is that each of these lists you know the lists and so there was a key value and it\u0027s called name and it\u0027s an arbitrary user specified name that\u0027s how you could distinguish one key from the other but you\u0027re actually referring to a value that needs to be communicated in the wire okay so that\u0027s a reason for needing to actually you know have a distinct thing there for for those values can we take that up on the list sure thank you all right so will meeting be will will will take up on the list and add most or I guess the idea is that we\u0027d be adding those values to a key store or sorry we\u0027d have distinct lists for for capturing those also in the key for okay now on the right hand side of this slide we see host keys and raw public keys and there\u0027s a question of you know should there should these two things be merged possibly I mean a host key is effectively an asymmetric key value and a rope of caves nature metric key value and so I mean there\u0027s the encoding I mean I understand that you know when we think about SSH house keys we we think about that texturized format that you know so that kind of an encoding and but remember separately we have the key format there\u0027s the algorithm there\u0027s a key format that we discussed previously so it seems that maybe trust door we could really just have one of these two things could be merged and and then you know for those that are used for SSH the key format would say it\u0027s a it\u0027s an SSH key and for those that are being used for other it would be the other kind of encoding that be specific for that the key format would be different so that was my that\u0027s my question Thornton group any comments or thoughts okay I think that particular one probably requires a little modeling you know where or you know examples where we play it out and see how it go it seems it seems possible it seems viable and if there\u0027s an opportunity to simplify things we should so there\u0027ll be a something to explore as we move forward with this okay next slide please slide 3 slide 13 okay so what would the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:50",
    "text": "impact of having raw public keys and pairwise symmetric or appreciate keys be on to the TLS model and and mind you we\u0027re talking about the TLS model and not the SSH model because the notion of using these values are really specific with TLS I\u0027m not I mean SSH with us a sage they do have different kinds of keys they talk about I mean will they have public key and then with ahem public key they also have for instance certificate based public keys and PGP based public keys so yes SSH does have variations and in its public keys but when when but they don\u0027t really refer to raw public keys or PS keys that those concepts are really specific to TLS and hence why this slide is only talking about the impact to TLS and so what would what is the impact fee so there\u0027s this TLS client grouping and a similar impact would be to the TLS server grouping and in this grouping we have for instance client identity and of course you know if the client is going to identify itself using well it\u0027s called pub key or preacher key but it\u0027s you know if it\u0027s pub key it\u0027s actually having a private key so that\u0027s what if it\u0027s identifying himself using its public key then of course the server needs to be able to authenticate it using a public key and so the impact is going to have is could be you know having two impacts what one you know where the client is trying to identify itself or the server side and by itself secondly where the client is trying to authenticate servers or the servers are trying to authenticate clients so that\u0027s why we have the impacts in two locations and in both locations the impact is kind of similar in a sense that where there\u0027s a choice and and like it\u0027s the choice part is only the identity but nonetheless that we enable there\u0027s a there\u0027s a variation right you can for client see there\u0027s a choice because you can I don\u0027t know I wanted about to say you can only identify yourself and you think one strategy I\u0027m not sure if that\u0027s totally true but I think it is true so you kind of pick one you want identify yourself using a PSK it\u0027s a you would pick that choice and and do it that way but when you\u0027re authenticating it that\u0027s actually becomes more of a multiplicity you have a really and this is like references to trust or for instance so there\u0027s many kinds of certificates and many kinds of keys for all public keys that could be used for authentication purposes so that\u0027s more it doesn\u0027t need of a choice it\u0027s more of a union because you know you have a multiplicity of clients that are coming in and one client may be using one choice you versus another strategy so it\u0027s not a choice there okay well anyway that is the current impact and I don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:50",
    "text": "have a question per se I just wanted to bring it to the working groups attention next or actually if there is a comment I don\u0027t think I see anyone standing at the microphone so next slide please so again before we move on you have ten more minutes okay and there\u0027s only four more slides or really two more content slides after this one so I think we\u0027ll be okay thank you okay so we spoke about the impact to the TLS model there\u0027s also impact to the Netcom from restaurant models so we spoke you know if was if okay so the clients can identify themselves using our PK or PS k we also talked about the server team to be able to authenticate the clients but in addition the servers need to be able to extract a username you know what is the net comp username what is the breast coffee named for that client that I that only identified itself using raw public key or preacher key and particular not a certificate if they were using a certificate then we\u0027d leverage the existing cert to name mapping structure where it describes how to extract a username from a certificate so it seems like we would need something like that how to map or extract a username from a PSK or a bogey so once a couple options maybe would be one to define PSK to name and RPK to name maps now and the why do it now i mean is it like to extent if I\u0027m needed now or to just leave those definitions for some future update and not worry about it now and I think that\u0027s probably a good place to pause any comments Robert insist so I mean I don\u0027t know how important this is I if there\u0027s a choice and it makes sense you can defer this I would suggest it\u0027s better to try and defer this and get the drafts finished so that\u0027s my preference but if this is required for this to work then we need to do it now but I don\u0027t know yeah but within our working group or you know looking at common restaurant protocols I\u0027ve I\u0027ve never heard anyone ask for this support the desire for wanting to add support for PSK and our RPK I mean theoretically as possible and it probably should be supported within the in the fullness of time but the immediate use would be more and Hank was the one that was asking for this it\u0027s more for co-op and and co-ops use OD TLS which is a variant of TLS and so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:51",
    "text": "the you know and and I think they very much want to be using rpkm PSK immediately so so having defined support for our PKA PSK in crypto types in key store interest or it\u0027s very important to co-op but for us I back on fresco again I don\u0027t think it\u0027s necessary so I\u0027m very happy and willing to defer the definition of these mappings until later but I\u0027d say yeah my preference is to defer and they hang right to draft on this okay I think that I\u0027ll assign it the TLS is also simply using them not just as often but it\u0027s most certainly it is a TS back so what to be T is complying well yeah that\u0027s right so there you\u0027re right theoretically is is there someone could want to use them and if they want to be as him medon\u0027t do these mappings that they just simply can\u0027t and unless they create their own mappings but I think that\u0027s okay I think the working group we could decide to just not worry about that into the problem arises completely so we\u0027re aware that there would be a hole in the solution and we with our eyes open say it\u0027s okay Kent this is from Martin yep two questions sort of linked with two doesn\u0027t that mean that we have an incomplete solution and Part B is can we leave out our BK / p sk 4n c /r c yes exactly so first yes it would be an installation i as we were just saying and and then secondly exactly we just simply not can we leave him out i mean i think what you\u0027re asking is can we somehow make it be that clients cannot use them i I can\u0027t respond to that just right now I mean like it can there be a must expression or something like that but that could be used to restrict the syntax so that\u0027s not possible I need to look at that just a little bit more okay so I think I said it earlier can we jump ahead really just go to slides forward please for client authentication there\u0027s actually the repeater that\u0027s especially by client authentication first we\u0027re going to talk about local versus external and in the currently published versions of TLS Bob Wills there\u0027s a local or external flag to indicate if the client authentication should be different inside or outside the data model specifically where where\u0027s Lister "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:52",
    "text": "client a fine and you know sort of life high observation I mean you want to define your list of clients inside the part of the data model that\u0027s kind of primarily oriented to transport the the endpoint to the transport we wanted to find your client clients there your list of clients there or would you want to have some other place that you\u0027re defining your clients and and so that was the notion of the local versus external Martin raised this discussion on list since the publication of or the submission of these drafts and we felt that we could just simply remove that\u0027s choice or I should say we could remove that choice by really removing the external case and flattening the local case so the only case that remains between the local case but adding a feature statement to the local case so that it would only you know for those servers that wanted to find clients locally they could I enabling that feature statement and otherwise it\u0027ll be it be on their own to define where the client authentication is going to configure themselves separately so that\u0027s the current strategy if it\u0027s no object from this will any any comments yeah and in this interest of time I think we\u0027ll just move forward please yes again still talking about client education but but now required versus optional in the currently published version so the TLS they should be dry so this is not with SSA Jo TLS and HTTP there\u0027s a required versus optional flag to indicate if client authentication must succeed at that protocol layer or not and this isn\u0027t this is necessary because in rest Kampf there\u0027s rush comps authentication model says that the client may be authenticated at the TLS layer or at the HTTP layer or both and and so there says you know I was trying to express that like how do we express if it\u0027s being authenticated at one layer of versus the other layer however recent unless discussion is led to the following which is essentially the removal of this choice completely because primarily a code that I\u0027ve been working on isn\u0027t using the flag rather it\u0027s keying off of what credentials have been configured so you know in the client list that we spoke about two slides prior we in in each client definition the client may have a password configure and separately it may have a TLS trust anchor configured if if it has a password configured then my code says well you must authenticate using HTTP basic off if you have a TLS you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:54",
    "text": "trust anchor configured then you must authenticate at the TLS level as well so so it\u0027s being driven more by what has been configured at that client level instead of using a flag here so a couple examples if a trust anchors been configured to see list of what okay that\u0027s like this head so any any thoughts or concerns about that makes sense right to just go off of what\u0027s been configured well I know I know Martin\u0027s nodding his head because he agreed on list when we had that discussion so if there\u0027s no objections then we\u0027ll it will the next update will remove it just has been discussed there and so that is oh I\u0027m sorry I said differently there is one more two more slides please this is the last slide there\u0027s a certificate name fingerprint mapping currently both in the ITF and restaurant server models there\u0027s a search name grouping that map\u0027s the client certificates to the user name the grouping currently is containing mandatory true for a node called fingerprint and and so the observation here is that in what I think could be a common case deployment scenario it would be unnecessary to have to define that fingerprint all the time that you know a deployment would have sort of a deployment wide strategy you know they have an issuer the issuer is signing all of their certificates the same way and and the user name is put in the same field for all the certificates and so the strategy for how extracting username from a from a certificate is universal and and hence the need to identify the fingerprint of the certificate you know and and in order to figure out the extraction strategy is the unnecessary or redundant effectively and so you know the thinking is well we like let\u0027s remove this mandatory true because it\u0027s is not required always and so in the current model when using the grouping it refines the mandatory true to a mandatory false and so two aspects to that first off it does not impact existing behavior so for for those who like to use certificate and they want to always specify fingerprints they still can it\u0027s just giving them the option to to not specify it if they don\u0027t need to or want to or I should say have to and the second aspect is really what Martin was saying is that doing this wouldn\u0027t need to be used with care but isn\u0027t that the case with all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:54",
    "text": "things in security you know if you if you the the certificate of name mapping it\u0027s a list it\u0027s a user ordered list from a yang modeling or seeing syntax perspective it\u0027s not actually user by it I should say ordered by user instead it has a field called ID and the clients are supposed to in the service or supposed to numerically sort because the lowest ID is actually the first two lists and the so that they are sorted though they\u0027re their user sorted list and it would be important for clients to ensure that the if there is more than one value in this list that the one that\u0027s not having the fingerprint is at the very end of the list because it\u0027s effectively they catch all the you know the the global wildcard it matches all you know so it\u0027s the it becomes the default it just need to make sure that that particular entry is at the end of the list so that you know yes there\u0027s some care with ribs with respect to that but beyond that not really smell our concerns let\u0027s make it quick because we are already over time on this on this particular thing about nice you can says I do have one other question on one of the other drafts can I raise that now with the Ricci late could you do it on the list oh yeah I can do all right thanks okay thank you so Hank would will you be presenting yep hi I\u0027m not Eric I\u0027m Hank I\u0027m presenting for the message standards for notifications here today next slide please thank you thank you okay we have old school young notification probably everybody knows about them we now have the three rfcs that are young push and and very big space of new types of notifications that can be emitted some of them are originating from changes data stores some of them are originating from action notification statements and young module definitions all of these can produce light quite a lot of yang telemetry there will be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:54",
    "text": "flows of notifications and these flows might be aggregated at some point and even on the mirror that is the yang data store there might be a quite of a lot of original sources of notification statements and all instances in this case and these could be already bundled at the the source later on in this dream they could be bundled by young agents and immediately so there is then a specific need for metadata how to do this which modules are involved what it is about these are of course all informations that are inside the tons so to speak notification instances in the bundle but if you just want to have fast processing of these let\u0027s call it telemetry content its value SFIL to have some explicit metadata at the top of the notification bundle so effectively it\u0027s the no notifications but with a header that\u0027s probably the bundle header with metadata in it and then this so there are some explicit changes in the last iteration of this draft especially we removed the potential the capability of transporting something that is not a yang notification everybody was a little bit like this is net conf why are you doing I don\u0027t know an RTP notification message here this is not the right place for that acceptable and true I think it can be it could be augmented in again if you want this on a custom basis and everything in the drafts at the moment is purely notification based now yes an interesting question has come over the list how do I know that my receiver is capable of doing that so this basically goes back to a note of drafts that would be a place where it is easy to highlight our capabilities lie I think the group has to find use of it in the first place I think it has because this survived under version 8 of the draft now but I don\u0027t know because I\u0027m not a young expert that I\u0027m not come expert if the note if traf especially HTTP notice that\u0027s upcoming is the right place to solve the can my receiver actually process the Bandar head our statements I don\u0027t know the answer to this question maybe the room does yet so as a contributor yeah so there is interesting covering receiving support hmm I take but the transport might decide what might be used like in our case we use options to discover a receiver support hmm so the question then is the format how would the receiver capabilities be documented so that when Greg do you know all the capabilities that the receiver has mm-hmm so that\u0027s something surely the the draft can take up a chapter you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:56",
    "text": "can come up with capability options and how to maybe fine-grain them maybe not even I don\u0027t know but we can work on this for our first draft and then give it to the group and if you can find out of this makes sense I guess again I\u0027m not the deep expert on this term so I thank you for that comment and it was posted I think it was in here I know some of our own contributor was posting to list yeah well if you\u0027re talking about yanked elementary isn\u0027t it more useful if you focus on the binary representation therefore have all the values not in texts but as a binary representation what is this inferring to is the Cochran work in the constrained environment space here I don\u0027t have an answer to this I\u0027m more like an IOT guy so I would be very happy not to waste space and long were a big volumes of telemetry with human readable text and XML I might not be yeah this might be just my point of view but I think it is at least worth considering and we could highlight I think the question is on the list but we could highlight it again and make it more prominent when we call for a consensus or something how people think about this and our default option is binary I think and this has to be bashed yeah but robots in Cisco I I think binary coding is key for telemetry I think for the boxes even non IOT devices routers and things they\u0027re generating a lot of data want to binary encoding and without having support for that I think it acts against the ITF telemetry solution yeah I\u0027m in total agreement so thank you yeah I\u0027m not sure whether he really means - doesn\u0027t see that yeah oh no sorry I don\u0027t mean to be high okay we\u0027ll drop you Thanks go away and that\u0027s basically it so last question on the slide is important is there some significant interest in doing this again the context is there is a large volume of notification now that can be created and you have to manage that somehow which is not highlight on the screen as there are cool sources week footer are items that are highlighting for example integrity evidence which is developed over in the remote Association working group all of this blobs can be signed and the situation is not the original creator of the notification so that has some optional but very useful management and television restream information here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:57",
    "text": "so having added that is there some strong objection to continue this work in this room that does not seem to be the case I\u0027m very happy about that and I can take time to sorry WG closure huh yeah so just a quick comment on and I think we still have the whole question of receiver support or the receiver but this is the basically the transition stone and then so let\u0027s try to address that before we talk okay thanks okay well India from erikson hopefully we\u0027re getting near to finalizing the ank push notification capabilities draft so just a basic concept the yank push capabilities has a number of capabilities and it would be good to know what these capabilities are before trying to get the notifications the most important original was whether one change can be supported for individual data nodes or not but then since then a number of other capabilities were added to the data model so here we see some of the capabilities and one key concept that\u0027s coming in more and more the capabilities are described on multiple levels they can be general for the publisher and we are starting to use the publisher because it\u0027s publishes notifications or it can be specific for individual data stores for example support notifications only from running but not from candidate or startup or in some cases we want to have want to be able to specify capabilities on individual data nodes so I can support notifications for interfaces generally but not for interface statistics or maybe I want to be able to support notifications for gigabit interfaces because they are new hardware but not for old old ones so if needed then you can specify the capabilities but per data node and data for example interface instance always if you have a more specific capability definition so you might have a capability definition saying that so change notifications are supporters for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:57",
    "text": "the whole node but then you have more specific definition that interface statistics on change as a support is not provided the more specific always overrides the less specific okay so there have been a number of updates since the last last IETF we add these two capabilities excluded change type so for unchanged notifications we can say that we I only want a notifications about the create or modify or delete operations and I can say that I only want some of these and this already supported by yank push but now we have a capability to say does the system support excluding some change types there are messages already in yank push but it\u0027s not defined there how what what what is supported or how should we notify what is supported also it came up lately that in some cases only unchanged notifications we might be supported and periodic might not if you think about it yep for example for example do we support periodic notifications about startup configuration probably and we don\u0027t now want to do that either so period of notifications can be supported or not and that\u0027s indicated we have a restructure the yang module so it uses the node selector in the same way as knock\u0027em access controls which is basically that this simple slash means the whole data store so we don\u0027t need a special modeling level for this for the whole data store is just indicated by the simple slash also move to the using the term publisher because it\u0027s not really a server anymore let\u0027s say in case of 80 HTTP based notifications in some cases the term server is still there because when we say speak about which data stores are supported then yes that certain net cost a reskin server functionality as requested by some there\u0027s explicitly indication that this works both for nmda anon and the nmda systems really the only little difference is that if we are speaking non nmda then this draft considers the state data to be part of their own running configuration just for this the purpose of these drafts is not a general statement in any way and also I updated did the draft to follow the instance file format draft we had workgroup last call and I have up "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:57",
    "text": "the published update since then sorry for it their updates were published yesterday and maybe even after midnight today one upcoming issue with these updates is that if instance data format draft is updated then that impacts there at least examples or not at least the examples in this draft so that will means that whenever the instance data is updated then there\u0027s a need to update this there\u0027s two ways to handle this either we continue to update this whenever instance data format is modified or we kind of strip out the metadata part from from there examples just putting their three dots and then we don\u0027t need these updates and yes this is the how the data model looks like today I hope it\u0027s understandable and so we have the publisher level and then we have the the data store but the data store capabilities really is just one single key for the data store and then we have the per node capabilities the capabilities on the publisher level and the data store and/or Ferno that level are really the same and I think that\u0027s the end yes Rob Alton Cisco just a couple of comments for your knocking node instance identifier there\u0027s now that definitions sort of moved into our six nine nine one bits so you could pick it up from there I which has the same definition I think is what you require but they have dependency on that document I don\u0027t know how long it\u0027s going to take that would be a better choice if we\u0027re willing to wait then the other common I mentioned to you offline is that you go back to original slide in terms of the selection capabilities you can select a wildcard for interface names but we would have cases won\u0027t be useful to say I want to do these statistics for physical interfaces differently from tunnel interfaces or sub interfaces and at the moment I could have you\u0027d have to list every single interface on the device which would be huge and dynamically changing or the the wild-card is it\u0027s too generic so I\u0027m not sure what the best solution to that is I mean maybe we could augment it in with additional filters but I\u0027m not sure where that breaks the logic of somebody reading they say they don\u0027t understand those extra filters but maybe we should discuss that further alignment yes the data tie for note selector could have could be taken from six nine nine one base it would delay this work I don\u0027t know how 6i9 progresses I think we will "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:29:58",
    "text": "not be reworking knock\u0027em either to use that so I would like like to avoid that but the main reason is a time and dependency I hope I understand the functionality or the it\u0027s the same for more specific filtering yes that could be done a simple wild card or then we have to define what kind of additional filter we want and we already have subtree and XPath so defining a third kind of filter might be don\u0027t be a good idea also I think there people are having problems reading expert filter so that\u0027s an end and yeah expert is very powerful and I\u0027m not true many people will understand it so I see a risk there also then we get into the problem of overlapping expert filters and how do then we have priority between them and how to handle them so my preference would be to maybe he put that into abyss or if that\u0027s really needed okay actually for follow-up as a global point actually we have relevant job to discuss how to specify the selection filter maybe you have to filter some some useful data you don\u0027t need to could you speak up please what could we actually have relevant jobs actually will be presented by my colleague or actually can specify some selection filter maybe it\u0027s kind of Simkin relevant to your work actually yeah okay let\u0027s discuss it yeah there\u0027s one minor point that I have to discuss with Lada about the yang doctor review I think we can take it offline all right so I\u0027ll quickly go over the draft for http-based transport for subscribed notifications we are currently tracking three issues in the github for the draft the first one is related to binary encoding I think there was some discussion here and an interest and desire to see binary encoding supported so assuming that the publisher "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:00",
    "text": "does learn of the receiver capabilities and we\u0027ll talk about that in issue number three can the media type itself be used for communicating binary data so as an example we are currently saying we support XML and JSON and the there\u0027s an option to basically add sibour to that media type list any comments questions okay I see some thumbs up all right the second issue that we\u0027re tracking is for whether we need to rename receivers to HTTP receivers and there was a question of course that this should ideally have been defined in 86 39 but since each draft is having to define their receivers the question was do we need to rename it to be transport specific the only question is if it\u0027s being declared within the namespace of the model do we need to really indicate for example with an HTTP node of that it is a http receiver I would think it would be obvious on the module name and for if there\u0027s any concern about any conflict of course then the each receiver is being declared in their own namespace at least the current part is no but unless there are any objections or comments okay moving on to the last issue for the discovery of receiver capabilities and this is something Hank just talked about so from a transferred Pacific we the options I either eat sorry either to use options or get we of course would prefer options to return the capabilities of the receiver the only point I think that is left to discuss is what the format for advertising advertisement of those capabilities is going to look like and that\u0027s something that as I suggest the other draft could look into so among the list of capabilities that we\u0027re currently tracking is of course the media type that I just talked about which of course includes sea bore and then this second capability that we are looking at is bundled messages as defined by the notification messages trapped alright any comments or questions all right you\u0027re good sorry bonjah Ericsson I would be interested that they if you get these capabilities obviously or I assume you don\u0027t want to get the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "capabilities for every single HTTP notification then probably you need to say something about how long do you think that they are still valid or caching them or okay so if I understand so first to answer your question now this is per receiver so this is I\u0027m trying to understand what the receiver capabilities are so and the second part your are you contemplating that the capabilities might change in transit or in but no no I have a Monday I have a message to a notification to send I discover the capabilities will I still assume the same capabilities on Tuesday yes indefinitely yes as as indictment on that the second is about security I got strong comments from some implementers that if you move the receiver definition outside of the subscription part so the indirection to its own own data model then configuring knock\u0027em will be quite tricky because if someone if you have a subscription but someone else is allowed to modify the receiver under your subscription because it\u0027s a separate data tree that can be a risk so at least you need to mention this in security consideration okay and third that I\u0027m also working on 3gpp and 3gpp it seems is in a very very strong need of this and the urgent need okay hi there can you hear me yes all right question on the capabilities for for ballads and this is our voice by the way the question was is this going to be the same capabilities as available next week last week or whatever and the the goal really would be to have the same kind of capability exposure as we have for the kind of capabilities exchanged when net cough or rest cough law again and you find the capabilities out for the server so that the idea behind that at least that I had for this was that we don\u0027t want to have the same life cycle of capabilities that\u0027s done with other types of transport establishments by uh in net cough the capabilities are connected to the session lifetime so that\u0027s easy but what do we connect the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:01",
    "text": "capabilities lifetime here I would have expected that we\u0027d get the same kind of a session establishment to going on that was the assumption that we do this was part the capabilities exchange for the session okay exact uestions Oh God hey guys this a Michael from Hawaii and today I want to introduce body about is a bank subscription or for even younger with the notification in some Y way proposals as drafted it\u0027s because in some use case so user may want to send multiple even string or a single message since mellitus even stream may have common characteristics for example says evinced ruin me some data object with witchcraft from different source or for same time periodic and there are two related draft one is a subscribe notification it I already be published and that is cannot allow the user to subscribe user to subscribe multiple streams in a single message another is a notification bundle but is northern providers ability to specify to explicit specifies a relationship of different and notification are you different streams and here a some use case there are two years case a one full bunk subscription the other full bank this one full bunk establishes a subscription the nazzer is for bank the latest subscription if it don\u0027t have a bomb subscription capability it\u0027s a user new e to send here and ok we can see it\u0027s a user need to send three message to establish a subscription to subscribe the module for more the bar and the model parts same time if we to dilate ate it all so new to us in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "story message to delay today\u0027s subscription but if we had can have a capitated allow the user to send only one message to subscribe 3 even and we also can allow the user to use only one message to delay this mess strings a similar idea is okay this device can allow to send assists only one message to and true to the user a child okay cs3 even stream have appeared what we did destined in this draft way to front a group Rd to provided a provider flag to to provide a flag to shows a explicit relationship between these different streams and are also different a unit module which can help the user to punc subscribes it\u0027s a concern Matt well I can send only one message for multiple streams and also you allow the publisher to report multiple streams or raising separate ways a group ID here is a module over wheel and the way define the group\u0027s list with group we have a list of streams and we augmented subscription and a notification module via sacra party and also all commend his a bank notification must not function of message header with some parameters such as message tab on the group ID okay it\u0027s okay valley away show in our world with it provides a group Rd it can help to explicitly specify the relationship between different un destroying and it can help to reduce the round shape of the request and the response that can help to save the boundaries on the interface between the client and the server and maybe can help to provide that multiple selves or aggregation why we presented this document here is because one to get some consensus and the one to know whether this is a program problems that need to be solved and want to know how many people are interested in unity is task that we have a warm mother angle Eriksson just as an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:45:01",
    "text": "interest though what number of subscriptions did are you assuming sir speaking of five ten hundred thousand notifications that you would bundle yes maybe multiple streams focus on hope if we want to collect the devices some stated data and this data are cryto is collected for the same times and the way can bound owes is and defined as a state her newest group so we can only use one group ID in the subscription a separate subscription so we can okay it\u0027s a bundle subscribes and we also can receive this state data in only must one message so we can\u0027t voice in case and help to reduce the you know the interaction between the continent server it may be her cousin Jana fate I understand that just asking what is your assumption what size of groups would would we be using in the real world 10,000 it depends on the use cases we don\u0027t worry we really want you support is Kumari sauce occupation you may gather some metric from each member name capture you can aggregate it into the pumpkin England could you cut because they very different so the number could be very few actually let\u0027s tell other in some other case that you can more than there or more than twenty yeah Rob Wilson Cisco just a quick question is you go back I think prettiest slide maybe no one more in this case can you also use a sub-tree filter to achieve the same effect so rather than actually having to have separate subscriptions for the different paths food bar and Baz could you use a sub-tree filter that would achieve the same things you still end up with one subscription and using the sub-tree filter to achieve the same thing so the question so maybe that I think if I\u0027m not saying we shouldn\u0027t do this but I think we should consider like you can do this probably the subtree or an X bar filter anyway do we want another way of expressing the same thing actually I think in some cases before they obviously you manage it and maybe not a correlated in Chasseur so may you may make assumption you need to tag a such kind of obstacle you need to correlate with each other so use these sabbatarian filter may it doesn\u0027t work actually so that\u0027s why we introduced a new google ID ID to help you to correlate different object and maybe not irrelevant to each other apparently but the button in some use cases in some context is a you do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:03",
    "text": "need to collect a group of data that have common characteristics so you can use kind of group ID so yeah that\u0027s what i okay then if that\u0027s the case can you give examples in the draft of where existing solutions don\u0027t work be helpful our subtree can you come back one slide this one so if I understand correctly this is going to be useful in the after over there were you going to delete it\u0027s all the members of the group in one go this is the main advantage right yeah then I\u0027m monitoring it was a big enough problem to solve right because yes you have multiple groups of young object that you\u0027re streaming and then okay maybe you have to delete them one by one but actually it\u0027s because you don\u0027t care any longer so even if you keep receiving some more while you deleting all the different or is the right term stream then maybe doesn\u0027t matter so I\u0027m not sure the gain is huge to tag this as a group and to say I want to eat everything from Group one there\u0027s a question a sickness is not a need to do everything in one group it because you want to subscribe the same Kratt eristic it\u0027s based on your want to do it\u0027s so long you\u0027re what what you want to salt or a use case based on your use case it if you need to subscribe to send a sim cross-state sync rustic data you can bundle it in streams all this data together raising one group is nani to one step to subscriber one data and that next to do the other date has so it\u0027s a different help to reduce the interaction between the primary server so today\u0027s is some use case so always news is okay one final question from Eric questions were already hit that I had one other thing that is not explicit in there is you have one filter as Rob was mentioning and you could probably get away with this with one filter but have you thought about having or what the implications of having different filters might be for that for each individual screen I think that that\u0027s an interesting question because knowing how many how many filters might be interesting and whether the group is actually applicable would be would be something to work through okay there is a comment and out so yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:51:03",
    "text": "before we ask okay so coming from Martin the assumption is that it is useful to subscribe with the same filter on many streams I wonder how common that is this okay it\u0027s it may be as with as I introduced before a hose says in in some telecom telemetry scenarios may want to Clark to multiple lot of data from the device and if we have some idea to classify different cross into different group it maybe can help to do some specific application okay in it so you we are all the time on this but I think you should take into consideration the comments that you have received to lower they all seem to be around the use case that you have up there which doesn\u0027t seem to justify the need to bulk manage a set of subscription so maybe you need to work on the use case a little bit and come back with a better way to a why this is neither in this narrows I I think specifically the comment from Martin and Eric on what the user filters and how you would might want to group them okay thank you alright thanks hello everyone my name\u0027s runtime from Huawei my topic is notification capabilities moto extension for data no technology support actually the notification capability has already been defined in on in that coffin allocation compatibilities and another critic notification capabilities model allows the client to discover young possibilities such as maximum number of objects can be sending updates or supported appearance of chaotic subscription without using notification communities it\u0027s leads to an unexpected failure or additional message exchange "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:04",
    "text": "for Netcom clients and in a state of our subscriptions of a particular subscriber to be fetched is huge field inquiries of approach of operational State on a server can greatly reduce the amount of the data to be stream out to the destination and this is the most important effect of the notification capabilities actually actually in the existing yum post telemetry mechanism in the existing the jump in the existing mechanism the young post telemetry can provide a mechanism you subscribe to second sub to subscribe and you select some operational days stated data based on the selection filter past there is no document you discuss how the selection filter should be actually in the existing mechanism to reconfigure the selection filter by humoring training is this is necessary all you need to rely on the all you need to rely on the service logic defined by the application in some situation for example in the in some situation may be the clients want to change the selection filter for the case the case the service main EQ may will be terminated and may need to be updated and a few and the human intervention may need to be involved generally say for the exist in the existing mechanism his heart Fournier Kafka lines to automatically select which data objects of interests for example to identify a set of objects which have a common which have common characteristics to address this issue in this document will provide a tenant dynamic way to specify the selection filter most specifically we tagged characteristics data object and an instructor client all other subscribers or subscribers choose a selected operation select the operation we record the self explanation in this drafts with the self explenation information we can fit we can further filter the queries of a personal state or more thorough and we can correlate the data objects across the modules which have the common characteristics and we can reduce the large amount of data to the destination we argument out we argument is the notification comparability is a module to the notification no technical abilities attributes and with this experience we can specifies which type of the object is can it can be pushed to choose the targeted recipient here is our example "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:57:11",
    "text": "for example for example if I\u0027m interested in note a and you know saying motive for an OD what should I do the first step is we need to tack the note in the first step is we need to take the note in each device Model T indicates the data that has the common characteristics for example here the the module for it can be like ietf the can be IETF interface module and no days can be like in discards package or the note B can be like the aero package we tag the note a in the WP performance metric and for the second step we automatically advise the tag from the like roster to the NMS to the NMS and in the third step we subscribe our interest the data based on the based on the self explanation tag and we care and we and from the XPath of the data note and for next step we would like to hear the car hear the comments in this room and your comments and kitchens are welcome well I enjoy Erickson I see this effort and I heard about at least one more where we want to define different types of note capabilities or data those capabilities of the server which i think is generally a good idea but it somehow conflicts with I was instructed by this group to keep my draft to notification capabilities now we are stretching the word notification or in this I don\u0027t know the solution I think the general idea of providing such information is good but how to handle it but not less so I could see some use cases for this while I wasn\u0027t a big fan of the tags for yang modules I see some value for attacks for data nodes and I believe that if we want to do it right we have to exactly augment balázs draft for a notification because that\u0027s the right way to do it but then we have to observe it goes way beyond beyond telemetric abilities right but I think that this is a right way to do it yes all right and then other comes did you have anything no oh no all right just just about time I guess "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:12",
    "text": "oh no exactly on the dot perfect thank you that\u0027s the agenda [Music] I\u0027m a local that\u0027s like I thank you notes "
  }
]