[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "as the case may be it's 10 o'clock um like I said I give a couple minutes and then we'll get started one question so I took minutes last time but in the data tracker it doesn't actually like list them oh I haven't included them yet so um did you did you take them uh and send them to me or did you use the notepad tool I I used a note-taking tool and I kind of assumed that it would then take care of everything else uh I'll have to double check to make sure that it ended up there but if not you ought to be able to find it somewhere and if if it's yeah if I can't find it I'll contact you but yeah so once you make them then to get them actually posted as official minutes I need to click a button and I hadn't done that I was actually just going to do that and figured I'd just wait that makes total sense okay thanks all right hello morning despite the flurry of activity on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "repo like way to go three three months of activity in like two days sometimes that's how it happens here is a bunch of waiting for for Paul's review and then we just cleared it all up here at all Paul's reviews comments out [Music] um all right I'll give everybody another minute and then we'll get going some of the some of the people missing it's awful early for them so well maybe not awful early am I kidding seven o'clock Pacific time it's not that bad foreign again thanks for uh dialing in at uh whatever hour it is where you are this is an official meeting of the ITF uh so it's an ITF MLS meeting I just want to do the no well um a lot of this is about IPR um I think I've I think I've seen everyone at one of these meetings before so you shouldn't be new this is one of those deals if you say something you got to submit if you don't and I find out about it I will um which is actually what I did in the past uh there's also some stuff about personal conduct Etc luckily this working group's not had any of those problems so that's good but if you want to know anything about these feel free to click on these I'll put them in the meeting uh repo at some point um if you have any other questions you can also ask me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "uh all right what is next uh status uh code of conduct this is all true everybody with respect try to speak slowly um limit the use of slang you know just beat ideas by using reason argument um best engineering judgment the best solution for the whole the internet and contribute um all right uh what else let's do the whole thing we're basically here still um the whole timeline we had a feature freeze with a working bus call the 80s done some review um and then we're kind of here um and we're basically kind of at the same point with both the protocol and the architecture document and we're about looking like we're going to be ready to send a clean document forward to iitf last call which typically lasts two weeks um because of the holidays I suspect it might go four so mid-January is probably what I'm it's up to Paul but um who's our air director to decide how long he wants to be but I I that's that seems pretty normal or he might wait to start until the first of the New Year I'm not really sure what he's going to do but um then after that when we kind of like kick off a bunch of other director reviews so you'll see some reviews come in and sometimes they're good and sometimes they're not good and sometimes they're purely editorial basically just roll with the punches because at the end of the at the end of all that we'll try to make sure that all the director comments are addressed before it goes to isg review no matter how small they are because the area directors from the other areas use those directory reviews to make their comments and discusses and not addressing them just lengthens the process so it's better to just deal with them um all right that's it for the Preamble we got two documents that were really on top and then we have others we can talk about if we have time do you guys want to do the protocol document first or do you want to do the architecture document first well let's just discover the architecture document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "um there's nothing open on that at this point um when I went to bed last night there were a couple of things open that then but then uh Benjamin got up early on uh evetime and first bunch of stuff but maybe click over the pull requests and um recently closed ones um just to review for folks um kind of the highlights of the ad review um let's see from 167 were the two big ones these two yeah all right yeah they were big in terms of size of number of changes but I think they were all pretty localized and kind of weren't yeah um the one I was going to highlight was the uh the kind of Multi-Device privacy one yeah that was definitely the one that he said that he was most uh interested in which one is that one so that was that that's one of the latest that I merged right that's yeah 169. 69 yes 169. there we go all right yeah yeah so it was actually quite uh trivial and uh and mostly little uh like there was nothing that we didn't discuss before the only change I made actually when I fixed some some remark after acre made a comment uh that this was not a device uh it was actually not a device level authentication but it was a client level application so I fixed that um but apart from that it's basically a very very simple thing I also added the accommodation that's on the bottom right below the the comment resolved which is to avoid sharing cryptographic State as much as possible we could basically if you do that uh you are putting yourself"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "in the you're shooting yourself in the foot because people you know another Cricket has can have control over one device and then give itself a good however the keys of other devices so that's that's pretty bad uh apart from that like you can read the text it's very very uh Uncle commercial um and generally I mean all the changes are requested by Paul were mostly traffic editorial clarification uh since there is no nothing actually normative in that in that document it's also much easier to actually solve those problems yeah but those those minor editorial things are going to help the readability of the documents of the people who are coming at this cold so I think that I I think that the document end up in a better spot for it so yeah I mean it's probably a like a long like you know you could read that document so I'm gonna what I'm gonna do is that I'm gonna do another full pass over the entire document because sometimes we like with those many editorial changes we actually introduce duplications or things like this but there isn't there is going to be anywhere and nothing that's gonna be uh uh move it's gonna be purely like you know uh duplicate duplicated sentence removal or or things like this if there is anything that's remotely controversial I would anyway welcome to pull request and discuss it on the list yeah I mean if there's if there's minor things that you note uh just fix them uh if it's any again I I kind of trust your judgment that if anything um kind of raises the level of like hey I need to double check that'd be great just ask for a review from somebody um that that'll work too but if it's if it's simple editorial stuff just fix it excellent yes so do you wanna are you gonna are you gonna publish a new"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "new version of the data tracker and then do it up to you whether we I mean depends on when the protocol uh is going to produce the next uh draft I guess if he publishes the next draft in a week I might actually take the week to to do like a typo uh kind of review otherwise I could just trigger it right now it's like it's not a powder so so Richard what do you think I mean I we'll see how the discussion goes today I think fair enough if everything goes well well here I think we're probably ready to pull the trigger on the protocol after this meeting um but if you have some things that are still yeah I mean I I would uh I I would say that there there are some other people that'll catch duplications in the lake forest but feel free to um if we do publish at Benjamin I think it's okay that you have another working version that that like you don't publish yet you can point that more more and more reviewers are becoming more and more Savvy about GitHub and we'll note that like oh you know the editors already got one rolling and they fix it over here so it's not a big deal so it shouldn't be it shouldn't be a thing so okay all right excellent news thank you very much for doing all that uh let's go to protocol then right um I just wanted to say Benjamin before you go and um before you go and uh make a new version I'm gonna do a one character PR that adds a carriage return that makes the that makes the section formatting wrong uh you'll see that in five minutes I I hope you're you're uh your one character today is going to make the section right it's going to be incorrect yes all right great okay so we're over to protocol issues or pull requests it's just two pull requests because all the all the issues are covered by four before I get too much farther does"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "anybody want to take notes um great I don't I don't know Richard you normally don't use the data tracker but uh if you do just send them over to me and I can get them uploaded all right appreciate it all right sorry so pull requests are issues uh PRS please all right sorry I'm just taking some notes on the architecture one second no worries I only see nine things so hopefully it won't take the full two hours but you never know and it's really just the five things that cover the four things oh right great so that's awesome well it's good to see we got Joel here too all right good Marta all right so let's let's go in easiness order here I guess um actually this is gonna be easiest um how about 841 let's start with the Ianna one so I don't know so tear feels on a train so he may not be here but he pointed out this issue that we have signature labels to um you know disambiguate signatures from different contexts they don't overlap um when he pointed this out I maybe the the analogy occurred to me of exporter labels TLS has an Explorer label registry I checked with Hecker to say hey was that an accident or like is that something you do again if you had the chance I mean he said this is a good thing to have so I added an exporter label registry as well so this just makes two um two new Registries points to them from the text um oh the other change here I did uh you'll notice these recommended changes in all the other registries um all the Registries were copying and pasting the recommended uh text from sniper Suites and so I just made it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "point back to that section instead of copying so hopefully that's okay uh the only thing that seemed like it might be uh interesting or controversial on the Registries themselves is I put a provision in here for private use um those who've hunger on the ATF might remember the x-header stuff for HTTP where and stuff started out as private and then it turned not private and so having the x dash prefix was was troublesome um so I don't know if people wanted to reserve private space that way or not um how much on your thoughts on this is somebody who's dealt with the same or ruined someone who's still playing and stuff in the past I mean some people are gonna love it some people are going to hate it it's something we could bike on for a while but if it's a functionality we need or want then I think we just have to be like all right well you tell us what's the way what's the the quote-unquote right way to do it and we'll do that this is just our suggestion so I don't think you're looking you're not looking for a hill to die on here you're just looking for a mechanism right so yeah yeah you gotta be fine I don't know Rowan do you have any I'm I'm not sure that we need to have the private the private label I mean but the the point here is just that um if you you know if you wanted to have so if you really wanted people to go and expected people to do stuff in in a private space you could ask them to use the reverse domain name but um I don't have a strong feeling I I think this is fine I'm not sure that saying you know begin with private colon is necessary but the the problem that we've had though is when we when somebody started off and did something that was private and that it became something that was standard"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "um and so then you have like multiple versions of the thing you know so you have the label that is with private and the label without private um uh well I mean I think the the other the other thing the contrast with this these strain values as opposed to integers with finite size is that these aren't really contentious right like if someone gets you know X forwarded for or just defines forwarded for um you can Define you know forward and on behalf of or some some like language variant of it um yeah there's there's not a resource constraint so yeah I'm okay removing a private thing I just stuck it in there because I figured C should have some text and take it out than to invincing the fly so I will note that in the most recent discussion about exporters in TLS was that a discussion about making the um registry specification required um so the designated expert can so there's there's there's no need and they actually don't have that for exporters right like I don't think they actually have a private label in the front so maybe I don't know well so what's your suggestion I don't know I I could see dropping it I could see dropping it because you don't you don't really need it and at the end of the day it will solve dropping private would solve the whole um you know now it's now it's actually being used a lot yeah and then all the all the um Registries we have here are specification required so yeah so we're going to see some land grab of first come first serve yeah no I mean I just again like you said it's you know we're we're gonna you know we're gonna spell the name wrong and be cool right on purpose like that to to differentiate it so if it's not a resource constraint I feel like maybe we can just drop it granted this is probably opening us up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "for a gen art comment but you know at least we've talked about it now so I think that will happen either way correct my crystal ball is so cloudy with those reviews um but yeah I guess I'll go ahead and just delete it yeah okay I'll remove that one other thing to note here um if you scroll down in the exporter label registry definition um there's nothing there uh in the initial contents there are no initial Contents I don't know if that'll trip anything up um and I'm Sean do you remember having issues with defining empty Regis Registries that are empty to start um the only thing I think is just I think you you can have an empty table just preserve the first value zero is reserved or whatever like I think you have to give them like the rows of the column you want and just give them a call and make it empty can we reserve the volume in there or something I can put some sort of stuff in there or yeah I think if you're just not out of work because they might be like what's the table look like [Music] oh I don't know if you just if you just copied this stuff from here and just the first value just put reserved like I think the I wonder if the TLs registry exporter did they reserve one of the values I don't think so Martha and I have a suggestion for an export label uh we were gonna anyway suggest an extension that uses an exporter key so if it's really an issue then we would have an initial exporter label to suggest well I mean I I mean I've also got one for the the S frame extension um but the question is you know whatever we put in this initial table we'd want to have in the in the base spec yeah so I think that's right I think it's okay to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "register something empty just give them the table with the three headings and just leave it blank you don't have to put a reserve volume in there for this thing yeah I'll just put one headers I had a rolling table that's fine yeah yeah I mean it's about making sure that the instructions are clear to them it's like here's our table it's empty thank you right okay cool all right um otherwise folks okay with merging that any last call for objections I can make those tweaks and then I found a typo so there is a comment in the pr just take it out oh okay so there's a typo yeah there is a typo there we go yeah oh okay thank you yeah I'll hit that just in time editing I love it all righty all right next one I guess we can look at 839 all right um again not super interesting this is just a terminology one um there was some discussion on the issue um I guess um Chrisman developer was looking at this and noticed that very sprinkling this MLS prefix on a bunch of struts and so um I went through and just did a search and replace uh to change the names to things that don't have MLS and are a bit clearer um I noticed this morning that uh so there is I think brought a pretty broad agreement on that mapping in the p in the uh issue um yeah the one people seem to be unhappy with his group content so Conrad suggested message contents um I think Benjamin suggested frame content a little lower um I it's just a name I don't care so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "um who wants to fight it out there is also a Content AED that I think you need to map with I think you change it to private message it should be changed to private message IDs something like this so I made the Honda I made the mistake of actually submitting a PR for changing it because there are so many entries it's like pure girls a bit of everything but it's exactly the [Music] content I don't know [Music] group is a bit tricky though I don't think I agree with with uh you know I don't particularly care about the name but group is a bit um misleading I think yeah the thinking with group content was that it was content so it's a recall that is content with like the the few metadata fields on the top stage for this group ID in this Epoch um so I think that was the idea that this was like content that is targeted to a group if you want to keep it Conrad is I see her on the call did you want to argue for for message message con Center I'm very very slightly leaning towards frame content because that just was quicker just now for me to figure out what this was what it meant but yeah yeah my first thought was like oh is it an application message it's like the first thing that came to mind that's why frame but again this is no strong preference I I have a slight preference of for the public message private message instead calling those uh signed uh signed message and encrypted message just because I think that for non"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "-crypto folks I think it'll be clear well I mean this the encrypted message is also assigned so right but yeah I don't have a preference like either message or frame not a huge fan of the group content maybe also because it sounds a bit more like group context but then again that's maybe it's it's not bad that bad in terms of confusing myself I'm not hearing anybody uh really objecting to frame so I I might make one minor Amendment there and call it framed content with a uh with a d for the past tense so so there's this content that has been framed um yeah sorry can you say that again it could be content that will be thrown depending on where in the your Center or receiver uh I mean it well I mean it is content that has been encoded in the the MLS framing in the sense that it's been you know framed for a group I group in Epoch and then on the receive side your your plan framing it but you're still yeah it is in the frame when you're looking at it fair enough um so on Rowan's so so unless there's objections I'll go with framed content okay um on Rowan's point about public private yeah I I kind of enjoyed the ambiguity the public and private gave you because you know it's as Conrad points out it's a little tough to get into specifics"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "um and still be concise um so I'm kind of inclined to keep um public and private so anyone else kind of share around his concerns there or have different suggestions it also gives us it also gives us the ability to change all we actually like in future versions of minutes we can keep the public and private and change the way you know we sign things or whatever even for extension uh so I would be in favor of keeping that I think of keeping private and public all right so if no one else has thoughts on sounds like rough consensus in favor of keeping public private yeah I just I think I just leave it yeah okay all right so so as Benjamin suggest that I'll update the content a aad to say something a little bit clearer I'll up to frame and I'll change the frame content um and then I'll get this merged okay um let's see that's 838 is probably the back why don't we go to 8 36 actually I think that's the next goes in 8 37-38 good together I'm sorry you cut out for me I missed the number 8 36 or 37. sorry yeah if we could go to 836 next I think that's the next easiest one so um I'll open it out that we have this Center data construction where we grab a sample of the ciphertext and use that to create the key and notes to encrypt the sender data and you know that correctly set off you know some flags for him because there wasn't much analysis showing you know of why that you know taking a sample of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "subvertext is secure like what the ciphertext is you know non uh it was maliciously crafted to have a specific prefix to give you a specific key you might need to reuse nonsense or something um so this prose I added basically takes so recall the scheme the sender data scheme is inspired by the scheme that quick does which was in turn inspired by this announces or noticed paper from from Bel Air at all um so uh the quick this is this section is effectively just a copy pasted into adaptation of the text in RFC 9001 um kind of pointing out how this Maps over to uh to that paper and its analysis and that you know the paper analyzes this this hn1 construction um which is which is effectively what we're doing here and shows that if the primary uh aad is uh indistinguishable from random data then the uh the sample and derive key and um and obviously the sender data scheme uh also protects the sender data so oh this section is is pointing out to um you know that that analogy and thanks to Conrad for helping you know get the terminology tuned up because the I was drawing from the quick text on which is a little ambiguous I think we've got actually a tighter description here so I just want to put this in front of folks um to see if folks thought it was a clear description um this is really just explanation for for the sender data protection scheme so I think Conrad uh did a pretty thorough review on this I think he had approved it um I I think I think this is pretty clear to me so I think most folks have concerns about it um I think this is ready to emerge"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "I haven't really dug into it but I did read over it um from what I could tell it looked okay um yeah I didn't really dig into it super deep I was just reading the the other paper to try and reconstruct all right so I think what I'm um the nice thing about this Joel is that there's always more time until it actually gets a number slapped on it so I feel like we should merge this and then if there's any any issues that arise later we can go ahead and get them fixed um I mean I think the construct is right it's just maybe the description and then I think maybe we're okay yeah Martha I saw you on mute there briefly did you ever come in here um I was at the same here I I it sounds reasonable so I I didn't read that paper thoroughly as well but I can look at it a bit closer and it looks fine so I think this one is fine if there are issues um I'll follow up I mean there's any Behavior right this is just description like this has been on the in the spec for like foreign okay yeah to be fair I think it's a part uh that wasn't analyzed too often I think that's why this Assumption of prf hasn't shown up in in a fair number of the MLS papers that I've seen I don't know Benjamin did you guys include this part like hiding the sender data and the analysis you guys did um especially because we didn't do a computational proof rights uh so probably tell if you can say but I'm pretty sure he didn't do either uh and I don't know of any paper that actually analyzes this part but the prf"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "notion is reasonable yeah yeah I agree and and that's that was not to say that it's a problem or anything it was just if there is a paper that would be an easy way for me you know to go and read that and then see that it lines up with the text that's all I think it's fine so I'll have it on my to-do to go over it more thoroughly and and you know if I don't find any issues and that's it that's it just stays in I guess I guess the thing to know is that we're not exactly doing what's in the paper but we're do you like we are um dividing a bit and that we don't like in the paper they use soar we use aad and then the paper they use the ciphertext to like as the nons and we only use the ciphertexts to um as as kind of as context input to a prf that in addition to a proper key derives the nouns and the key so my take was essentially we were being kind of stronger than what's in the paper so it felt right but again like would be great if someone else could talk about this I was checking cool yeah we can have a second look but it does sound reasonable and sounds like we're stronger that's true all right so I'll go I've got that marked as ready to merge in the notes so thanks for the for folks taking a look all right so that brings us to the last two here seven eight thirty seven eight thirty eight which are results of a suggestion from Tiff you know actually Sean you want to click over to the issues for a second um and actually Taylor are you on and where you can do audio if you wanted to cue this one up so I'm on but I don't know for how long we can hear you now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "yes Sean is at 8 34 there up once so it's a remote thing yep so yes this is the remove here so I mean it's just an idea that uh I had what while I was trying to sleep so at least with others to it but still I thought it would be interesting to to well I think we may have lost Airfield um if I could I'll try and pick up where he was leaving off I think the idea of this idea um is that we have this unmerged construct um and we use it when we add new members um but it can actually be used at remove time as well in the sense that if a leaf is unmerged at a parent node that means that the leaf holder doesn't know the private key for that parent node and so when you remove that leaf node in principle you could just remove that leaf bit from the unmerged nodes and not blank the parent node because they're removed member doesn't know the private key for the parent node um so that's that's the principle here um which I personally find kind of a killer that kind of completes the life cycle of other states um Raphael noted in the issue though that um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "unmergedly the Integrity of Technology Mercedes consistent it could be so a malicious uh Adder so he's adding some a new member to the group could construct a tree that has unmerged leaves that uh where um you know a leaf that is marked as unmerged when in fact it actually knows the private key and so if you followed the logic here um you would remove them from the emerged leaves and the about the number would still be joined if effectively because they know the private key for the node and that nerve would still be in the tree um I think with some additional validation rules um we can we can get to where that's not an issue but you know we need to have those validation rules and the curves that they actually accomplish um uh the properties we need here so the the concern I think here is that this this is an appealing kind of symmetry property it's a billing efficiency property um but there was some concern that more analysis was needed so in light of that I went ahead and wrote up two PRS one of which adds some validation rules uh to the uh the tree validation the Integrity validation that incorporate that enforces some stricter rules on emerged leaves and uh I also wrote a PR that implements this in terms of removing from unmergedly it's effectively the stiff I posted um so an update you just um let's see you you only blank the intermediate note if it's not emerged and on removing removed from the emerged leaves but so I went ahead and write this PR's app but I wanted to put this out to the group to see how folks what folks think about emerging disappearance so there's one one comment I made on the pr itself actually not in the issue and that is um that the scope is actually much smaller"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "um than I initially thought so this is only for uh new joiners who have not yet done an update so the general recommendation is to do an update as fast as possible after you have been added to a group that is regardless of what the update policy is in general regarding the frequency of updates because as long as you haven't done that update there is you're still in this interim State um that is not quite the same as if uh you had done the update so um and then um so you only get an optimization when a new journalists that haven't done the update are being removed and my question is How likely is that ever to happen in some very specific scenarios um it it could be more frequent where a lot of people constantly join and a lot of them get removed by somebody else but in general this is not likely to happen at all so this could be a really small optimization and then a lot of discussion about the security so the trade of in general for me um doesn't seem that great so I I think I agree with that um this this exact thing was actually discussed when I don't remember if you I'm not sure if you remember when I when I was a dhff just introducing the um the unmerged leaves and passing with Gothic that that's the exact discussion that we are like on the first day when we introduced emerges like because we can remove that uh as fast as we add them basically but that said I do agree with you that from my point of view it's not really the theoretical problem that that that can occur in terms of security but it's more like an implementation thing where"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "and I would prefer to write actually I think it was avoiding uh that um because I think it complexifies the implementation somehow um for as you say something that's not necessarily um a very large performance swing so you know I I think the idea is even trivial right it's like it's quite good but I'm not sure if it uh if it was doing simply because of the of the additional complexity of the bookkeeping uh of making sure that you you keep tracker by saying that someone you know if you lose State what does that what what happens if you look at the wrong node in the chain you say oh maybe you know there is no animals live there so there is no mercy anywhere but maybe that's wrong so you have this kind of additional complexity in the rainbow that that's not necessarily great I think um so yeah I would lean towards what you said and maybe not just just ignore it if we see that's a real problem we can always add it to an extension or something um it shouldn't be called um fast remove or faster remove it should be called undo uh unmerge leave essentially yeah I was just going to say that I that was also my suggestion to make it an extension maybe because I I'm it's really not clear to me at this point how secure this thing is it's like can like I I don't really fully understand why some malicious member can't undo remove off of himself somehow um I would have to look at this like much stronger and none of the existing analysis has this they're not going to be updated so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "um I'm a bit reluctant to make it part of the standard extension is fine it's a cool idea I think yeah I think it was covered by some proof that we like some some prove what we did but like still uh I think that's for the complexity and uh for the potential problems you should just not include that yeah I think we're I think we're zeroing in here on not doing this one does this is this coupled with the other one Richard or is this no I think the other one may is probably still worthwhile even if we don't do this one so let's let's close this I would yeah I think you can go ahead and click hit the close button on this one and then we can go to the other one or I can hit the close in a second um now you want the 837 aftermarket closer yeah I think that's I think the logic is correct if the unemerged leads are correct I think it's yeah as Benjamin pointed out I don't have a whole lot of confidence in that emergency leaves but yeah 837 so 837 tries to um um bring us toward that correctness of unmarished leaves by adding some extra checks um I'm going to go over to the the Delta diff View um right so right now um You only check that an unmer's Leaf uh parent node is actually under the parent node this just adds the additional check that everything um between the parent node and any non-blank um I should add non-blank to the intermediate notes but everything between the parent in question and the leaf node also has um the leaf node as as unverged which is a property that you have in all the real cases of on merged leads so anything that violated this invariant would be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "synthetic and maliciously crafted and not something that came about naturally right so that's that's the summary any thoughts from folks checks seem seem to make sense to me um my take is uh you know we're not going to harm anything by introducing more checks as long as we're not breaking correctness and they don't seem to break correctness so unless there's you know uh counter arguments in terms of oh this imposes a lot of whatever computation or something like that it seems like pretty clear sailing for me that's my initial take so these those rules are not redundant because um so yeah I stumbled upon this uh I think ninja equation is how so if we put it um my question is whether this is redundant or not and that's what I cannot receive time right now yeah there's a little there's a little bit of redundancy in that the the parent hash rules check this property this you know the continuity property a downward continuity property within a parent hash chain um but if if it crosses it doesn't the parent has chain validation it doesn't enforce this property across parent hash chains so if you're at the bottom of a deep tree and you know there's Crossing chains above you this adds an explicit check um you know that crosses all of those chains so um and actually everything"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "every one of the unmerged leaf chains is going to cross the parent a parent has chain right because they didn't do any commit so yeah exactly good point yeah I mean it doesn't look like it's particularly expensive you have to navigate the tree a little bit which can be expensive if you do it a lot but it doesn't seem too bad so yeah but the other things for the clarification Richard so this is for joining the group right at the moment you join the group you anyway do a lot of three um Traverse and so on so it's anyway you have to you have to deal with this somehow so I don't think it introduces new complexity it's definitely not the most expensive thing you do when you join your group yeah yeah exactly exactly you have to some I think it can be done efficiently with all the stuff you have to do when you join the group like compute all the parent hashes it's very another side note I think I'm traversing the tree ever since we have four trees is a lot faster than it used to be when you navigate the right side of the train because you don't have to do the boundary checks anymore cool all right yeah no I I encourage you all that's it's a good good point that like I don't think this Harm's correct it's it's not super inefficient and um I don't see how this could harm security so yeah that seems like pretty clear argument for going and merging right any thoughts here since you just popped up on video okay thumbs up all right I think this is ready to merge them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:05",
    "text": "um great all right I think that's that's all on the protocol doc so thanks to folks for the discussions here and on the on the shoes so you're going to go ahead and make minor changes and then pump out a new version all right benjamini yeah I think I can make that I think I can make the tweaks here in Fairly short order and get things merged this afternoon um and then yeah I think if it's ready to pull the trigger anytime so if you're if you're if that looks good then Benjamin go ahead before you know don't you don't have to necessarily wait for Richard to go because you're you it might be later um you might already be home um let's go ahead and get that get get them both out the door and then because then that'll kick off the revised ID that Paul asked for so he'll know that the ball moved back to him but I'll make sure to send an email to let him know sounds good sounds good we'll do that dress right now yeah um so I guess the next big question is what do you guys want to talk about next we still got an hour and 10 minutes do you want to move over to extensions or Federation or do you want to take an hour back and go to the pub we can do extensions quickly all right there's not a lot to discuss so yeah going over the trigger stuff so um after some initial analysis from Francisco's I merged the targeted messages PR I botched the the formatting a bit so I'm correcting that now and I released um a new version of it so I think at some point uh tearfield started looking also into the security"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "of the targeted messages but there was some some part missing at the time so that should be there now um yeah then um I think the only other thing that needs discussing in general is Ron's PR that um so the context is either we add that here in the extensions document or we make it a separate document that was an open question and I think the idea was to discuss it at the mentoring um Mata and I had a comment about the targeted messaging PR that we I'm not sure if now's the time to talk about it it's it's kind of um a suggestion basically for doing things a bit different and I wanted to and you know and a justification for why we think that might be uh maybe a better approach and I wanted to know what you guys think do you have it written up anywhere no or do you want to present it no uh yeah I mean it's I can I think I can summarize it quite quickly um I mean at what the core idea is not the details but I just wanted to know if the core idea is appealing or if you guys have immediate objections or essentially when Martha and I read this uh this PR one thing that that struck us both independently was that it reuses the leaf hpke keys right yes um and and it kind of generally that's a bit of a risky thing right because now we're using these we've got ciphertext encrypted to keep to these Keys which actually come from two different contexts one is path secrets and one is Target messages so our first thing was like well then okay so let's look at these ciphertext and make sure that you can't somehow you know you you can't confuse them you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "can't use ciphertext from one like generated in one setting and plug it in and it gets decrypted successfully in the other setting that that wouldn't be good right that that leads to problems and indeed it doesn't it's not possible but it's not possible kind of almost as a side effect of how the psk thing works in hpke which I don't I don't feel like that was really the intention and so for example one thing one could do is one could create an extension that says oh I want to do psks in MLS because whatever I'm worried about post Quantum I have some external post Quantum secure psk and the way I'm going to do it why not I'm going to use psks into hpk ciphertext as well like whatever I'm I'm what I'm what I'm showing with this is suddenly this extension that you've defined for targeted messaging is no longer secure if depending on how that psk extension is written because there's an interplay there with the psks so the fact that this extension Works although you're reusing Keys now these hpk Leaf keys for two different things is a pretty subtle argument and in the future could get broken unintentionally so based on that our first thought here was there should be a separate key for this each key should have one purpose so we never have this problem of ciphertexts you know can get encrypted to it in different contexts and so instead of just yeah go ahead Martha you can easily introduce this key as an extension in the leaf node um right so just another key in the leaf note just for this and then there would be like no fear that ever someone uses this extension to decrypt stuff from another extension exactly sorry one quick animated question don't we ensure that messages don't get confused by using different uh signature labels would not be enough it's more like if I see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "um you know somebody sends an update path and I can take the ciphertext that was in that update path encrypted to that leaf and create a new targeted message that I send where I just drop in that ciphertext and I use the story message and I sent it to that person yeah it's an Insider attack and that person if things line up with the psks we'll actually decrypt that and interpret this as a targeted message but what they're actually decrypting is the path Secret so it it's good you mentioned the labels in signatures actually that's why it's okay to reuse the signature key because we use labels we separate everything by this label so that's why we're not so um concerned about reusing the signature key in the lead for that for this extension but um we should do something similar for hpke somehow but wouldn't that be a problem of the protocol in general shouldn't we then inject something into the hpk psk in the main protocol just to make sure that that's now an update path that's being kept to uh I think right now the protocol assumes that the hpke key is only used for it and not for other purposes which makes it secure analysis assume that foreign sure that's fair um so yeah I mean of course having having a separate key that's uh intuitively makes a lot of sense how that's an uh separate but it's also a bit like the sledgehammer approach of Separation here because one more question sorry and interrupt it can't be just use the Intel field in the hpk encryption yeah and and check the context there to disinfigure it yeah I think we could but we would have to write the protocol in a way that it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "allows reuse of its key to for different purposes as long as the info is different it would have to be explicit in the protocol as well I think it's now explicit for signatures that's you know your um giving all these labels so that if an extension wants to use the signature key it can as long as it uses a different label but now it's it's kind of a bit weird because we're using the same key in the base mode in in the main protocol now we're using the same key in the PS4 mode psk maybe another extension uses the same psk it's a bit slippery somehow but so what you just said about the protocol that would only be like some some pros in the protocol saying that the keys could be reused if another uh info is being used right or or does it actually mechanically are you proposing any mechanical changes to the protocol that's changed the interface to the protocol isn't it the context of the approxen thing or something I forget so I don't think we use anything there and that's one of the things I've been wondering actually a while back when I was working on Turkish and messages what are the main protocol uh doesn't like do some additional Channel binding in hpke simply because it could no I thought it inputs the context into some it puts the context somewhere but um I think the context is included as aad at least yeah but not as the psk no actually that doesn't really make a difference though but um but I think there is certainly a context binding in the hppe encryption right yeah you write about that group context or something right yeah group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "contest goes somewhere to me I mean first of all you know thanks for bringing it up I think it's a very valid point but it feels like we have a chance to um to you know fix this in a better way because if if we have this ambiguity in the protocol maybe now's the the time to fix that since we already have that for the signatures one or two here this might not be the last extension that wants to reuse hpke keys so I think I I somehow agree with you uh Rafael the fact is that we should fix it anyway we should still fix the we should still fix the problem and by like disavigating somehow the the use case of that key um with an explicit level it doesn't solve that problem right because uh you know it's an Insider attack anyway but the I think it's it's worth thinking about it at least because we could uh make sure you know like we have a differentiator uh for mistakes more than for active managers Insiders you know like some external protocol is gonna use that key for something why sorry maybe I missed this but why doesn't the edit um label or info not solve this issue no I think that is enough but uh that we need to do it right yeah I don't think there is anything right so I think your suggestion works it's I think it would work it could be made to work I think right now the only time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "we're putting in a label in the extension that specifies oh this is actually a targeted message that goes into the psk derivation part but not into the hpkey I think you're right if we put in more context that specifies the purpose of the ciphertext it probably would address the problem it still makes me uneasy to be reusing keys from the protocol for different purposes but if everybody's okay with that I'm not going to push for it no I mean I completely agree with you with you on that we should probably use different Keys um I mean it's more storage for sure but uh so let's let's see what we could do like for our image problem is to add this label thing and think later of whether we want to allow or not allow the ReUse of the keys my take would be would be to have an extension and I have a different key but we can think about it later in some sense like this this gives us like some time to think about it would it make sense to um but a sorry go ahead Martin would it make sense to say in the protocol that in the protocol document that the key should not or must not be reused if we decide that it shouldn't be like just add an explicit text because we so at least I always assume that it's not reused it's just for MLS and then no one should use it for any other other purpose but I still have a question about the ReUse here because we do reuse it in the protocol like we can pass multiple times to the same hpk public key indeed and the analysis take that into account but that is the only thing like the analysis works if you exactly quantify or or you know it make explicit how this key is going to work and you're right that it does get used for different update secrets but it doesn't get used for something completely different yeah I understand but but with the right domain separation that comrade proposed what is missing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "just on my understanding and it just I understand you're uneasy about it but yeah yeah so I'm saying I think it would work but if we open the door to people allow allowing the construction of extensions the definition of extensions that use this hpke key forevermore we will have to worry that every such extension actually does good domain separation with all existing applications of this key because otherwise they might start breaking existing applications and that's the door we're opening here and so for this extension it could work you're right we could make it work without introducing a new key it's just that's that's the that's what makes me uneasy that's why I'm saying we're opening a door here to making our lives in the future more complicated um and that's just what sorry can I make a make a proposal I think I understand your concern now and I agree that there should be like a clear boundary because um between protocol and extensions um and yeah maybe we should add another key uh one alternative approach would be akin to the signature uh approach have a kind of encrypt to leave key function that must be used uh if you want to encrypt to the leaf key even by extension so extension so that you cannot use the key directly but you have to go through this and group to leave key function and then you have to supply enabled it specifically it almost feels like a new extension somehow an extension encrypt to leave key right and then you can do this one extension any other extension can use this extension in a sense we can have the extension or we can make it harder core protocol it would maybe make sense to make part of the core protocol but because you know otherwise extensions use another extension may be a bit weird but yeah that sounds fine except it's a bit late uh to to add it I don't know if we can manage I think my understanding Conrad what that would do is it make sure that no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "future extensions will ever break the core protocol but what it will not do is guarantee that extensions won't break each other yeah okay so but then it sounds like we need another INR registry for domain separation of extensions well just a separate account more yeah can't you just we we do have a we do have an index for extensions now can we just plug the extension index in there awesome and separate that one sorry we'd also have to guarantee that all future extensions whenever they use the hpk key will def we'll use it in a way where they include whatever they register there as context the thing is we we probably cannot guarantee absolutely everything but if we don't do anything about it then there's a high likelihood that people will you know come to existing hpk public keys without any guidance whatsoever and then effectively uh damage the core protocol whereas here we have a chance to give as much guidances as humanly possible uh the reason I said before this changes the interface to the protocols because up till now I've always thought about this key being the internal an internal secret to the protocol State it's like you it's like saying we're gonna pick some Secret inside TLS that's at some point in the key schedule and start doing things with that the TLs never considered like yeah people might do that but that's really not what you're supposed to do if we don't expose this encryption key and for now I've always thought of these encryption Keys being specific to MLS they're not part of the interface we don't get to nobody gets to reach in and do things with these that now similarly we don't expose the epoch secret for example right we do exporters you can export a secret but we don't expose the key schedule to Applications but we don't have a we don't have boundaries on what extension can't and can't do I think so if I understand correctly the idea was that extensions can change the protocol at will essentially so there is no clear"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "boundary to extensions anyway um except if we create one yeah which yeah yeah that's exactly what I meant so this this is bound to happen anyway at least here we have a chance to give some guidance and and improve it there is no guarantee either way but um it's more likely to go right if we are very explicit about it so I mean it sounded to me like and I'm clearly not the expert here like either what we should do here in the main document is say that these hpk Keys must not be reused especially in the leads um I I think I'm I'm probably inclined to play whatever the provision is uniformly to the leave keys or the intermediate keys um either they must not be used or we need to have some sort of separator of like you know encrypt with label like sign with label I think we should actually do both Richard you're on mute Ron I yeah no I'm I was saying that I think we should do both in the sense that you know adding the live the label helps us in any in every case independently of what the extension is the extension does all right if you have confidence that the keys will not be reused then there's not much points to having a label um but you you could say like you shouldn't you should use different keys and not reuse keys but if you do here's how to make it safe so like okay let me phrase it otherwise like what does it cost to actually add or disobey grater anyway so that you know if if you want later on we can do whatever we want with that separation uh with that label"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "you know it strikes me as good defense and depth and I don't think it it um is a problem with existing analysis because it shouldn't invalidate any of that no I think it's the same Principle as as before uh with uh with those extra checks we're just adding we're just the only thing we're doing by adding context making it even harder to do attacks we're certainly not going to bring as long as we don't break correctness we can only make things better or not change anything right we're we're just changing what is currently a zero length input to some non-zero length constant input that's the only change all right I can write up here that does that um if folks could take a look later today it won't slow us down too much okay it sounds like we have consensus on on that part for the MLS protocol and then it's still an open issue whether we use um new keys for targeted messages or we we have another input um like I mean I clearly understand Jordan martyr you lean towards introducing separate keys for that but for the sake of discussion that is then a separate open issue right okay so yeah we have consensus on the protocol um Jordan you mentioned there was more than one thing that you have to propose for targeted messages in uh no sorry that wasn't for targeted messages that was just a uh another extension we had an idea we wanted to I guess I just wanted to run it by you guys by everybody to just know if if there's interest in this or not um in a nutshell it's uh send send to group but from external and the core"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "ideas exporter key use the exported key to derive a chem key pair that's sort of a group chem key specifically for the purpose of external people will want to send application messages to the group that's roughly we came across a use case where some where where they were like oh this would be super awesome if we could send to the group from from the outside it's um yeah this is not new this is one one of the first things we discussed a long time ago yeah and I think it was even in the main protocol at some point and that got discarded um could do some archeology there but uh yeah essentially uh a light version of that has been reused for example commits because it essentially can uh a new any secret to our group yeah um um and yeah I think when when we got rid of it we said you know this could be an extension uh someday because there was not enough consensus to keep it in the main protocol but so yeah absolutely we can revisit that my intuition is that it's going to be an authentication problem more than anything but authentication of this external Center yes yeah yeah okay I guess that would have to be outside of the application somehow okay the group doesn't know about the external Center probably not now I mean we solved that for current external senders with extensions but you probably have a chronologic problem here because you might not know about the new member okay so if um if if we've got uh if we're done with this one I'd I'd like to go ahead and talk about on the on the previous one I would note that there's also an authentication issue in the other direction um in terms of authenticating that the public key belongs to the group um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "there are authentication problems in both directions yeah good plan that's a very good point but we solved that by assigning um the group info I think and for example commits yeah yeah you you can do things like you know I've had proofs and signer is is in the tree that it claims to the signer claims is that the tree hash for the group um all the things can get a little circular there if you put it in the group context and this that is part of like grouping for something that could be something or if you don't want to review building I guess you can have like a person I didn't mean the one just down down a design path here doesn't have that salt solution okay but yeah I think long story short I think this is uh definitely something we could discuss all right cool let's do that but I do think we want to move to the content advertisement extension yeah uh go ahead Ron all right so um basically I wrote this as two versions I wrote a standalone document or I updated the Standalone document and then I wrote a um and then I wrote APR to add this to the extensions document so the working group has a an easy choice so basically this extension it needs to be like MiMi is going to depend on this most likely and so I feel strongly that that a solution to this that a solution to this problem needs to be a working group item whether it's in the extensions document or whether it's standalone I don't really have a strong preference um I do have one concern about the extensions document which is that the um the relative um you know who would who would use each extension"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "and the relative maturity and complexity of of each of the you know three extensions if it were in there um can be quite could be quite different um that and at some point we have to be like all right we got six we're done like We're Not Gonna Leave the document open forever right at some point you have to decide all right now we're going to publish so that's the other thing you'd have to think about I don't know so if you're to your point about the um varying deployment deployability or deployment status of the various extensions I don't know if that matters as long as everybody thinks that they're not affecting security if if there's some need there and there's like two or more people that are willing to do it then maybe we're like two people then maybe we're good I I don't know what do others think about just because I don't want this just to be a bucket where everything goes right we have to have some kind of like you know litmus test for like why something got in here and like is there general interest would more than a couple people use it even if they're just using it internally in their own um implementations thoughts extensions make me uneasy we're so permissive with what we allow with extensions you know normally I think of like we when you think of things that are extensible you the way I think about it is there's some plug-in hooks defined or something like that and the one of the big purposes of those is to make sure that you can't break too much with plugins you can't you know and and we're but we don't have anything like that with our extensions like so so you can always have some extension come along that just breaks everything for everybody like it breaks other extensions it breaks the main protocol and that's all possible"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "so yeah I mean that's one of the reasons why um I mean it's a lame thing but like we have a recommended column right for these extensions and it's not there's there's no strength to that at all right because I think you're right I think we allowed the extensions mechanisms to be able to go and change anything right so maybe uh maybe a question here for you Joel is Joel is uh do you think that there's any any concern about the content type advertisement extension like if we take these sort of one by one I I don't know it well enough I'm not familiar enough to be able to say that I do want to just add though that one by one analysis is not enough any kind of actual security analysis will always have to be with exactly the set of extensions that are all being used at the same time it's not enough to analyze them one by one they have to be analyzed together with all everything else that's getting used because they're because we have no restrictions on what an extension can do so I do I I unfortunately I don't know for this particular one so I have a more general question so I'm going to dive out slightly but I'm going to go back to the content I promise uh so should we actually use the document to exactly and show what you said like to like have one document where we have we can basically socialize the main the most important extension for functionality that don't affect the security of the Corp protocol and you know like basically have a preamble or security Preamble of saying oh yeah like in those extension you should not do this this this this this um but I'm not sure if it works right it's like just a thought"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "um because some of those extensions will actually are there so they should not act the other the cost protocol we'll say um I'm not sure so there is a question here that maybe we can discuss offline or another moment but I wonder if it's not the good use of the of this document to specify things that don't affect the protocol and like have things that affect the security of the protocol outside in other documents so that you know there is a clear distinction between things that do affect the protocol and things that don't as much as possible right because of course you never have all the functionality in the extension as Sean says but maybe the few features that we actually really want really really want and can design now we should put in that document um I don't know so maybe you should have this discussion later and back to the content advertisements um I I don't I don't have a strong opinion I guess I would say Juan do you think we need to change that always how much do you think we should change the document how much uh will it require updates so if it's something that is you know pretty stable I would say I would I think it would be fine to have it in the core uh in the core extension document if it's something that we want to you know update with nfcbs who is like whatever like something that we are posted we updates or at least a few times um maybe that's worth having its own document that we can refer to in the extensions document I don't know I don't particularly mind right so in the architectural document we do refer to the external graph funnel so do you think it you know it will change much or do you anticipate something like this I mean I think that the set of people"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "who are interested in this will be tend to be more you know application me people um because it does have to do with it does have to do with how you how you advertise content types the there is one point that's well defined right they're not like Mimi's not going to go off and try to Define some new way to do that right no I mean the Mimi Charter which was reviewed on which was reviewed yesterday um I think it's I think they're ready to send it off to ITF for for you know the two week review or whatever but the um the the there it says specifically in the charter that no MLS extensions will be done in Mimi like MLS extensions will be done in MLS no but even the even though like the the negotiating of the content types right I mean they're going to use mime types right they're not going to go off and Define their own way of doing it like something different I'm just trying to I'm trying to react to the how many times this would get changed by you know the application developers essentially oh um we should keep it in there it's fine I think if it's if it's stable we should leave it in the extension document so the the main open issue which can be done and can be done separately is do we have a way to do the equivalent of multi-part uh multi-part alternative that people like and so the appendix which was the one you know one of the major changes in this in this document from the last version is a TLS presentation language sort of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "you know Syntax for effective for the same semantics almost the same semantics as multi-part alternative that just doesn't rely on having to use boundary markers it uses you know sizes um so if you want I mean I like it might be easier to look at the document it formatted in the the Standalone document which I'm pasting a link into the chat but um you know right now I can go and send an HTTP message an HTTP post or get with uh with two different formats and I can and I can enclose them in a multi-part alternative and you know the the semantics of that is clear like use one of these use the one you know use the mo the use the one the first one of these that you support um so if you scroll down to the appendix so there is this here is basically trying to encode the similar semantics but without using boundary markers which value markers are a bit of a pain because you have to scan the entire you have to scan the entire document to find to be sure that your boundary marker does not it does not exist in the in the the content of the the message that you want to send thank you so how about the following compromise we get this started in the extensions document which I think is going to be left open for a while anyway because we need people to give a chance to add more things as they integrate MLS into their applications and realize something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "is missing um and after a while then you would have a better feeling Ron if that's really finalized or not and if there's a chance it's not then you can always make it a separate document actually what you said that makes me think we should do the reverse because like you know we have the core protocol now and the ex the the you know Juan's in the craft could be done no basically right so people could already use that uh that's also like having it in the in the extension document actually forces us to wait uh which is not is a super great so so I'm like ping-ponging between the two positions but um what do you think about the multiplication of specs um I mean so if there's parts of it that are are stable we could get a provisional sorry we could try to get a provisional registration okay we can try to get a provisional registration for my Hannah for one of the extensions I mean if that's the concern right if they actually wanted to use it I don't know if that would help but I mean it'd be nice if so from my perspective this document I think in Standalone and it's uh I don't you know I don't there's no there's sort of like no process or technical reason to for me why this document isn't ready to be you know just couldn't go out the door like with you know after protocol and after protocol and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "architecture and Federation you know maybe like at the same time as Federation or something right um and it's something that will be there'll be a dependency in Mimi it's also referenced in architecture that can be if that changes that can be fixed in uh in our in um um in auth 48 but it's sort of nicer if it's already you know if it's already a stable reference if you know that that's the reference it's going to be so I mean my my preference would be to make it to make it a separate document uh but you know maybe some other folks should weigh in that haven't said anything yet well father what what was your I mean what's the goal for this specific like the the extensions document is it to socialize the things that we actually want like for sure and so there was some discussion about that in Palestinian terms um and the discussion was mostly about whether every extension should have its own document or whether we have one document where we can collect some of them most likely extensions that are more likely to be used by by several parties um and the the guidance there was TLS which also has a similar document it doesn't preclude extensions to have their own document it's just where we start uh to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "to set an example on how to do extensions obviously uh Joy brought up some good points today that this discussion never took place before but that was roughly what we discussed so far too I don't want to push the statues Association I don't want to to push the existing consensus if that was one but I'm like I'm largely thinking that we should have the extension document that basically says here is what you can a guidance for all the other extensions saying you know this thing you cannot touch because if you touch it that involves security that thing you can do whatever you want but um but that's something we it sounds like something we should do anyway just having an intro section and the extensions document it doesn't mean that for sure we should have the attributes you know in some sense in that document things should be in my mind it should be yeah it should be like uh thing that everyone will use basically so if we have good use cases for that we should put them in there but if we don't have good good cases for that we should just like you know be a guidance document and have separate documents for the for those things that people will use sometimes sure but we already had some some good enough consensus on our back and Turks with messages so far is really small for example the other idea is that we just go all right we got three we think these are good we've actually got we got some general consensus to ship these things do it and then yeah other ones come"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "along they can get added and you can update this document or you know whatever to to add them in is the you know the core extension so to speak um so there's there's multiple ways to handle this um I'm just kind of the sense is if we have like a couple that are good that's great we don't necessarily have to stay open like leave the document open for others to get added I do feel Raphael's point about as this stuff as MLS gets integrated more into applications they're going to be people showing up being like we need this and it could be broadly applicable the question is how long would we wait and maybe we don't maybe we don't need to wait that long we can ship with the ones that we got I would follow you on that uh you are the experienced one yeah yeah I mean like I mean like again because it's like you know how long do you wait and it's it's going to cause problems because Rowan needs this and the Mimi people are going to be beaten down like why are we waiting for those guys you know like so if we can solve some problems maybe we just merge this maybe we merge this content one in and just be like all right you know how do people feel about just progressing it with the the few that we have now and if Joel's got a great one ready to go and he's going to launch 40 he's like oh wait I got one that's great that'll give us uh you know impetus and uh motivations to review it and uh get it in the document or put it in its own so but just from understanding for Mimi it would be good enough um that that stuff is in a draft right it doesn't have to to be an RFC for me to use it so Mimi could have yeah so it should be a it should be a working group draft right so it could refer to extensions or it could refer to a separate work a separate working group I think maybe what Raphael's getting at is Mimi's not going to be done quick right so the idea like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "I think you can get down the like if you want to do the use case requirements thing like you could throw out the use case document pretty quickly like get it through the door uh and get it published but like the actual protocol spec is probably not going to happen in a year right it's going to take a bit unless you've got magic pixie dust that I don't know about Rowan it's gonna take a while no I don't have magic server server pixie dust or magic yeah I think that I think I think that I think what we should do in the short term here is we should merge this to get it in the document and then we can figure out the machinations later where Mimi shows up and is like we need this quicker we can rip it out and we can revive Rowan's draft and pump it through and if not we can let it kind of gestate and chill in our in the working group for a little while and then at some point we go all right we're far enough along move it does that sound like people can kind of live with that that approach for now I can live with anything regarding this situation so let's go ahead and let's go ahead and merge the let's go ahead and get this this this PR merged in then and uh go from there and we'll we'll wait for Joel's uh um new great extension and I do I do uh I do resonate a little bit with his uh statements about you need to kind of put uh guard rails and security considerations in about each one of the extensions um and I'm good to see I'm glad to see you did that rolling with yours uh right away um and then motherhood and apple pie in the beginning part of the document is needed as well but I'll be honest I haven't read it in like in a little while so okay what one last thing that I just wanted to mention it's just that in terms of a structure um the extensions document it has security considerations underneath targeted messages but I think that there should be a Securities consideration section that has subsections that talk about the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "individual extensions security considerations yeah that that's probably what people will be looking for um and so like if you've got we've got three or six extensions they can all be in each extension and security considerations 6.1 is the one for you know the the first extension and 6.2 is for the next one and whatever yeah right and that's also how for my for my thing that I did for the uh uh Ayana considerations as well so [Music] okay yep I think that's good that's good that's uh formatting stuff that we can take care of so that's great cool uh what is next I put it coming in there and we can merge it there's just a conflict from YouTube as well great yeah I think the problem is that the since you merged targeted messages first it wouldn't have you know if we had merged them in the opposite order it probably would have worked I'll let you guys deal with the GitHub Jiu Jitsu to make sure everything all gets in there do we need to talk about Federation that was going to be my next Point um is there anything to say other than people want it so no work has happened on the draft I was on holidays it suddenly expired apologies for that so it's hard again about that uh document that he never made is um so for me and for Federation actually we need to think about um early we need to think a lot about privacy um I think we'll have I'm not sure where to put the Privacy thing those the way I see it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "um we left the delivery like the the authentication Service and the delivery service we actually made them pretty abstract even in the architecture documents so that you know we can have different uh variations about those um but we need at some point to speak about like the state of the art of of or do you make delivery service private or how do you make it uh authentication Service private um especially in the context of federation because in the in the Federation case basically you know you need to transfer some information about um about you know the users that under your umbrella to the others to and talk to the other to the other users that are in a different envelope so like what do each system do and basically there there is like a very big uh privacy Gap that we didn't solve anywhere basically um so I wonder where we should do that work whether it should be like completely separate or whether we should do this kind of document under the Federation um that might be the best solution actually but I'm not sure I'm not clear with that where do you think we should do that Rafael uh yeah I think you bring up a good point um because as you said in the architecture document we were very vague on purpose but then with Mimi we want to be very concrete on purpose uh otherwise we don't get interrupt um so yeah we could definitely extend the Federation document in that sense to talk about MLS specific things and be much more concrete than we are in the architecture document um I mean there is some start for the delivery service"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "um that is not fleshed out at all um my intuition though is that oh it's it's not necessarily for the Federation document because the Federation document is a weak privacy instance of you know like the best set of your private centralized instance of deliver service so my intuition is that we actually need another document which should be like you know here is the best thing that you can actually achieve and here are the secretion privacy goes for that thing and then on the Federation document you say oh by the way you need to relax that spot that particular poverty because for Federation you are you know interacting with another device or another authentication Service that's my intuition but yeah so I think the status quo basically I'm saying it should be a BCP more than uh Maybe um I mean I I agree with the idea the thing is the um most privacy programs are to be expected with the delivery service not so much with the authentication Service um and so what you just described ideally will be in the Mimi delivery service document as well uh it's not there yet it's just you know alluding to that uh it needs to be fleshed out obviously but um since that document um describes how a privacy preserving delivery service can work we need a lot of meat in there anyway with security concerns and and privacy considerations and whatnot um and for the stuff that we cannot have in there we could still have that in the Federation document but now we're talking more about the Mimi document and about the the MLS document um not really right because you want like independently of me you want those things uh you want to be able to say oh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:02",
    "text": "by the way here so you you write a delivery service that is preserving privacy is here are the problems with the so I mean most of the information is already encoded I include a lot of that information with the architecture documentary because you know I'm talking about push notifications about all those things but um there is no consideration for instance for things where you know you locally store group States encrypted that only for unto an encrypted folder group and then you know maybe the the key the FML key to to decrypt that for getting the the push tokens or whatever is going to be like but I love that um this is something we want to propose in Mimi no but it's not specific to Mimi it doesn't have anything to do with me it's like uh that's that's the thing that I'm saying like it doesn't you know it's needed for me but it's not specific to me it should be an amazing so um okay but then again that's not the Federation document probably so you want to to specify how to do really privacy preserving delivery service in the MNS working group yes I mean I think it's really a reference uh have made me reference that right Mimi would say you know this property you got all it because you need that functionality basically and you know so here is how you do it in the context of interoperable things or Federation or you know but like the strongest thing is really related is like unrelated to me really it's like about oh you actually implement the delivery service um Implement like you know we do design a deliverable service so I think that should be in the EMS working group but um yeah I mean that's definitely valid take the question is should it be in the Federation document because the it's not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "specific to Federation as such yeah yeah that's the foreign a bit more about it like you know but the Federation document will have to say you know for Federation we need to relax this right basically because it's not specific to Federation like if you are socialized and you have only one it should we should have like a best practice uh like state of the art privacy so Federation will relax that and Federation across uh infrastructures like for me will even further relax that not necessarily no foreign that's that's not a given at this point yeah maybe not like authentication for sure but they always say oh no my intuition is that we still need to actually relax things but um well okay but I mean I fully agree with you regarding specifying more um but then coming back to the Federation documents um that's definitely not the place to do it I think uh if it's specific to the delivery service I'm not particularly specific to Federation uh not sure we will know for sure when we actually designed this thing but oh no so I mean the consensus we had so far in past interims regarding the Federation document was that we leave it open for now and we see how Mimi evolves and and so we sort of react to Mimi in that sense please maybe covers all of that then we can abandon the document if we see that there is some stuff that's it's not going to be covered by me in that sense we we can have it there um so is there something that's for sure not going to be covered by Mimi is the Federation of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:02",
    "text": "like you know in Mimi typically the authentication services are from different providers which is not the case from the Federation from the base case Federation document um so I think it's yeah it's not clear well we should do that well okay I'm not gonna I think we should take that discussion of flight but I think that the key Point here is if we have a document and you put it in there and then later we go ah we need to rip it out we can do that like so I don't I guess I'd rather not get hung up on the you know where where it goes to get the information written down and if we gotta rip it out later we do that that's that's that might be better because we have this document and if you're willing to write the text it helps right as opposed to like hey Raphael go off and think about this and write a bunch of text and stick in the documentaries so you know what I mean like um I might have to fire up John GPT yeah okay I will think offline and we can already discuss that later anyway so yeah the only question is um should we should I resubmit it without any content modification yeah so so doing uh doing what's called a keep alive version is totally fine basically all you update is the dates and just submit a new version that's totally fine just to keep the draft like available and in the data tracker so feel free to do that now do you need to push any magic button since I let it expire or do I just reset it I'll do that then excellent okie dokie um if that's it we're about 50 minutes early uh I thank you for your time and uh I'm looking forward to a very"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "quiet ITF last call um and uh hopefully we'll be wrapping up my hope is that if we get done with an ITF last call and directorates Richard and Benjamin if you guys are like kind of not going to disappear for like January we ought to be able to get through uh the comments that we'll receive anything that's discussed worthy that's where like it's it's better to get on it early than it is to let it Fester because the ads will lose State and they will not remember what they said so if you start seeing discusses that come flying out early before the telechat when they put it on the after the after the iatf last call happens they'll put it on it they'll put it on it I what's called an ISD telechat which is where they're all going to get down and talk about it that's where we want to make sure we get discusses emails in their inboxes before uh the meeting basically happens so that they and it might actually happen like quick so I'll let you know when it's going to happen and it'll be great if we can you know respond as quickly as possible because that that Smooths the process of getting uh through the through the process better like if you let it faster and it takes six months they're not gonna remember what they said and they're going to re-review the document and it's just going to be more painful so um but I'm I'm looking forward to uh the possibility of wrapping this up in the first quarter actually getting numbers assigned to these rfcs in the first quarter 2023 be nice I just wanted to make one one sort of note for editors um if you ever rename a document please make the rename an atomic uh an atomic commit it just makes life for anybody who has a PR to merge a lot easier all right um thank you very much uh Richard when you have a chance shoot me your notes uh Conrad I see that you were going to send"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:00",
    "text": "me some notes I think you could see some stuff that I couldn't which was weird but I'll get those uploaded and again thank you we'll see you next time have a safe and happy set of holidays whatever it is that you celebrate bye everyone"
  }
]
