[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:15",
    "text": "okay we're going to use the meat echo uh slide sharing tool so uh chairs which means uh yours truly is going to be advancing slides i will try to listen carefully for for next slide and other q and other cues i think that's our cue to get started corey indeed um well this is the last session of this current ietf plenary meeting the um tsvwg is meeting in this session i'm gauri fergus i'm one of the co-chairs here david can you introduce yourself i'm i'm david black uh another co-chair other side of the atlantic from gory and west and uh i'm wes eddy and i'm on the same side of the atlantic as david okay so in this second session next slide please we are going to cover a set of drafts on transport topics um if you haven't read the note well at this point in the ietf it's a good time to go and read it otherwise i expect you're familiar with this slide from other talks this week next side here's our agenda for session two and we're going to keep the agenda review very short and within it we're going to invite michael to give a brief update of what happened in rfc 496 all this as it passed working group last call and he's now uh waiting on the iesg"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "tele chat then we will look at two sctp drafts followed by two drafts relating to udp options a dccp draft and finally some uh discussion of the diffser specs this more or less fills our time but as ever we're interested in receiving questions and feedback on the mic so if you have questions please come and ask yeah please keep your your your question short so that we can move up yeah one note for the ad holding tspwg down to two hours this meeting week did not work we needed we needed at least three to four uh and so everybody everybody gets squeezed uh also for the sharp-eyed readers paying attention the there's an ietf token missing from uh the name of the very last draft from this slide we're hoping people can figure out uh where to follow this draft ietf tsvwg dscp considerations okay yeah here's the organization we have a note taker thank you ever so much um we have just one hour we expect an interim to come in the next ietf period and so um please um help the chairs prepare for that interim and look out for it when it's announced um and we will discuss support for starting an adoption call of this ah we've already done this um this is an old slide that got needs to be updated and rst 496 or this is on the tele chat nuts up um past working group last call"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "then received some external review as we invited an external reviewer to look at it it received review comments there was these were late they were substantial in that they were talking about possible other use cases it was discussed at the interim and it's currently back with the working group for a new revision so we'll talk about that document here hopefully we'll turn it around the working group for a short period of time and then we'll resubmit that to the iesg for publication that would be our plan next slide um we'll be done here so let's see if we can get a this is this is michael tuxen's slide um on this little head michael yeah this is about our rfc 4960 biz our next slide uh these are the earlier versions next slide this is what happened between the last itf and this one we had two revision or three revisions basically cleaning up things and revision 15 went into last call and we got we have the director directorate reviews and we have ad reviews and some of them where the form uh the protocol could change in a substantial way which were rejected and some other changes which were incorporated next slide so the changes which have been incorporated is it has been clarified how to handle the case when an advertised receiver window is smaller than 1500 which is required um there was a discussion with the security people on the cookie so it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "made explicit that the content of the state cookie is implementation dependent that the cookie is not encrypted or at least that's the specification does not require it to be encrypted and that the key used to sign this stuff should be changed frequently and frequently is specified as hourly for example the limits for outstanding tsns and ssns well we're using should not and that is chain has been changed to must not um and one other change was that um during slow start the condition was only increased if the comb egg point has been moved forward um this has been this was changed in earlier versions of the specification this applied to slow start and congestion avoidance this was changed for congestion's avoidance but not for slow start this is now also changed for slow start and the ayanna section has been updated and it was missing a policy for the ppids all the other changes are improving birding the document i think is on the telechat from mid-december and i'm expecting some more comments during the time the ads read it thanks michael um if anybody has questions please ask michael and if there are um any people who want to look at that draft and spot something that needs to be addressed or tweaked within those changes then please let us know it's still changeable but um we we believe it's finished and therefore it will be on the telechat agenda in december other than that on to michael to talk"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "about the nuts support document yeah this document came back to the working group and i submitted version 23 just because to keep it alive there are no changes made right now we got um two reviews from ads magnus and martin and there is an alternative suggestion from claudio so next slide basically the the major issues except for wording clarification whatever is uh are listed here handing off ip fragmentation at the net um i don't know how to address that so controlling net friendly behavior of an endpoint so how does an endpoint know that he's behind an ad and should behave like this this is addressable by looking for example at the local addresses multi-homing support of internal hosts can be improved support of multiple external addresses should be improved um remote addresses are not in the nut binding table they were removed there to make things simpler this was it was requested that this should be put back at least in the case where restarts are not disabled um it was the point about the pack the the complexity of packet processing at the middle box so does the middle box need to understand chunks or not and basically the most uh substantial in my view comment is that the stock the current document changes the definition of an association that takes the verification tag into account and has to deal with the case that this is not supported by the endpoints so basically these are the major issues and if you go to the next slide then um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "these are potential ways forward one is to improve the current method which addresses issue two to five um that will make things more complex and one of the issues also was that the document is already complex so another way to move forward would be just to use the fallback algorithm so basically it's like the endpoints have this understanding of this verification tag but it's important for the association and if this is not uh possible then they the document already has a fallback mechanism and we could just use that for that mechanism that would address issue two to seven um which is basically never disable restarts don't use verification tags anymore just do net as you would do it if you come from udp or tcp land and um it reduces complexity it increases the change of chance of collisions um the third way would be switch to uh claudia's draft and drop the current working document or the fourth solution would be just drop the work or not at all uh basically saying if we go for two this is very similar to udp or udp or tcp so we don't need to specify it the only way would be how do the endpoints behave that wouldn't be specified so these are the four options how to move forward and that's what i need input on before changing the document so does anybody currently um on this call wish to make contributions do you want to comment on any of these methods or or offer to review them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "so i guess the reviews are out magnus and martin did a very good job in describing the issues so the issues are clear the question is how to address them marcus yes i i do think uh i have to think a bit more about what's the implications of these examples and but i think we should be able to i i am clouded probably work together and try to see what we think jointly on these issues from our perspective um but we see that but i will i will promise to think about it and and come back i would say in within a few weeks i think that sounds an excellent title and get the three groups of people to talk about it oh claudio do you want to say something can you hear me okay go ahead speaker go ahead i don't know i i really would like to help in this area and this option number three is we talked about is more or less a subset of the the current draft it's not really a revolution so if we could avoid dropping all the work done i'm not and find a solution i am really willing to help yeah this has been the longest work item we've had and that's not been through lack of interest but maybe because we took on higher priority things in between so it'd be nice to see this finish and i don't want to go for option four but inevitably that will be the option we arrive at if we don't get conclusion quite soon christian"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "christine you're in queue yeah this reminds me of something we did in a quick format and one of the problem of not traversal is that once you start managing not also actively you expose yourself to a set of attacks by forge ip addresses that is it becomes easy to mount the man on the side attack or something like that in which someone takes an otherwise packet changes the source ip address and sends that to the other point and that creates all kinds of stat explosion issues or denial of service issues etc and i don't see that in the security consideration of your draft so i i think that you should at least consider what's happening there could you describe one attack scenario in particular in an email uh you want me to send you an email with the attack scenario with one so who's the attacker who how does he behave and what does he um yeah i mean yeah okay i can send you an email but the short summary is that the attacker the purpose of the attacker is to disrupt your communication so the attacker affects the not rebinding and by faking the not rebinding they convince the other point that your ip address has changed the the way the net binding changes is done in a specific way here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "well basically the change in that binding to point to something where the source is something that comes how can you change it by because not rebinding is something that you that the other point detect by looking at incoming packets if you change incoming packets you should you can you can basically drive that detection so the net the net binding is not changed dynamically that binding has not changed i do not but spoof's packet has arrived at the other points can you please send an email and i'll help you i will send you email because basically if you if you want to do that that's the reason why something quick in when you have a natural binding you get a set of probes sends to the previous and the old address and all the kind of mechanism like that so we we we um verify path before we start using them and this kind of stuff is an scp i think probably we should take this as an email uh thread on the list it sounds like anything that probes into the security aspects is likely to help shed a little bit of light whether we need new text or not i guess we'll become quite clear as we discuss it okay thanks christian really appreciate it okay so the next person to talk will be magnus i'm talking about the dtls over sctp document and here's magnus there so yes um so i i'm here to talk about the details of stp this work uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "so um yes we have done ericsson has done two ipr disclosures related to this draft so i want to remind you about the goal here that the main goal here was really to ensure that the dealers can protect larger than 16 384 bytes large sctp messages and that this work is done on s on 30 people's request in this work we kind of concluded on some of the right requirements especially in relation to the 3d vp use case about long linked fctp associations where we have association that could potentially for weeks and months the need for and that leads to periodic uh mutual re-authentication is needed it requires re-keying with probably if you have monkey exchange to ensure forward secrecy to reduce the impact of any key reveal and we also need to re-key stb auth even if that algorithm is strong with shock 256 and has a long lifetime it's it's not that long so probably um and we also want to support both dtls 1.2 and 1.3 for having a upgrade path ensuring that we actually can move forward with details versions so next slide so uh in those issues we hadn't discussed slot meeting emeralds in the new draft we are proposing uh parallel dtls connections uh and there were several issues that led us here i mean detail is 1.3 lacs mutual real authentication and has no forward secrets providing re-keying and dts 1.2 renegotiation is unsecured without neutral authentication and therefore it's often disabled even if in this use case it would be with mutual authentication and we also struggle with determining when keys for detailers and ssv oauth"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "could be retired so preferably without requiring draining at key updates so and that be draining i mean getting all messages flushed out basic footed connection to idle and then re-key so uh solution we propose here is to use the dls connection spiral so when you need to re-key or reauthenticate the pair you initiate a full detail as handshake to enable this we use details connection ids in all details records to multiplex on and because we're also saying we don't need me to have more interview live at any point a single byte connection id is fully sufficient for this use case and they can wrap and that will be many many hours between reducing the same connection id representation so uh and when you're gonna switch you have to when all else details record records protected by the old key has been sent and acknowledged in a non-renegable way so you know that you've emptied out the pipeway you know that all all stp packets related to these sap messages are on on the receiver side then you go forward and close the details connection that has these keys related to and it becomes the sender's responsibility for this [Music] and you do it in each direction individually to this indication so when both has closed you can remove the whole details connection latest state so that's basically how it works uh next slide so um the benefits you see it's they have no dependency on detailers for keying or re-authentication features there's no functionality changes between support and detail is 1.2 or 1.3 we think this is a good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "property here we currently see no limitations of the number of reakings you can perform which we've before had we have neutral video authentications and and full different helm in exchange for each time you rekey with forward secrecy and the key reveal basically comes limit to a single key period so if you're working every hour the most data leak is one hour basically and it becomes very hard to attack this because then you basically need to be able to authenticate as the pair so yeah and yes so this needs feedback if there is one that finds any you should really post to solutions so we need more eyes reviewing to secure description etc uh the target here would be to go towards working blast call after review and draft updates and we are sleeping a bit on the timelines here that we really thought we could hold but that's with from the struggle of finding a solution i think uh so i think that was all the slides yes martin martin uh maybe i'm confused but if this is in fact where their ipr issues can you clarify what those issues are i mean we are declared ipr on that we we have some uh ipr that we think relates to this draft we have made licensing uh statements about that we will license it it yes i understand from i mean parker's comments is that certain open source implementations but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "perhaps struggle with implementing this but yeah um and and the comment that i i mean one thing i can see here if the problem is that we replace 683 i mean we don't need to obsolete we need a spec that is a solution that we can give to provide to 3dpp so if if the problem is that the obsolete the so far non-claimed is where there's no ipr claims i mean that's fine for us it's from our perspective yes we need a specification that solves this thanks thank you um i think we will have to revisit the ipr status as we progress the work but let's take michael tucson's comment as well michael yeah it's a bit in the direction of what martin said so if you want to seek your http traffic and [Music] limit yourself on what's been standardized by the ietf then you have three solutions one is ipsec based one is tls base which was which is very old i'm not aware of any deployment and it was only done because it was needed and there was no dtls and we couldn't change http we couldn't change tls and there's the dtls solution http wise dtls wise it's implemented in open source implementation so you can use open source stacks for http for dtls and networks um and i'm concerned about replacing this with something which is iprs which we don't know yet and i mean well we don't know yet what what the iprs cover and so right now this can't be implemented in any open source um implementation that's what i'm concerned about and what i'm not sure if if that's the direction the working group wants to go or i mean"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "the goals are fine um and i think the original spec needs an update but i'm not sure if the working group wants a version which is ipr protected i think i would rather take that as a real question to a future meeting when we had time to reflect on what we have and what people feel is the important way to go forward we don't have to obsolete the current spec and we could progress with this work as an adopted item it already is adopted or we could do something and slightly different but we should tackle this at a future date and finish this spec i would encourage magnus to continue working on it so we can see what the final spec looks like would that be okay likeness yeah yes from my perspective it's it's fine to let's continue review it etc and see that it works but and as i said we have no problem removing the obsolete 683 if if if that makes the working group more happy from because i think there's there's a significant difference in capabilities here which yeah that is certainly one of the things that we should consider at the next meeting uh whether we should remove the obsolete line uh whether people are happy with this progress and i'd also like you to try and talk about um who might implement this specs so we can have some experience but who will review it and implement it as we get the document finished is that okay like this yeah yes cool i thought you would say that that's good um at that case any other questions or we'll move on to the next draft thank you magnus"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "so the next topic i think on my list is udp options so the udp options what we talked about to the previous interim um joel need to go chase slides wait a minute here yeah that's fine joe attended that and he has a slide deck that reviews some of the key outcomes of that meeting and talks about the work that remains for udp options so i shall present on behalf of geotouch that's great so this is the view from joel tuch's window the view from my window is complete darkness and yeah we're in different places um i'm going to present on behalf of joe so next slide if we can on here there we go so the first the first slide um here is about an update from the interim in september um at which we discussed the ocs option and important changes that emerged were discussed as options on this mailing list previously and finally appeared in the text of the id one of those is a fixed position for the ocs option and it's allocated in a place which is now visible and easily passable and the unsafe option was changed and really is an option that only exists behind the frag options so um this note is quite clear in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "text and please check if that was one of the concerns that you raised and the frag option has been rewritten re-scoped and really given a major overhaul which started at the interim in september and more about the frag option changes in the next slides next slide so the frag option is the first option after the ocs is given a fixed position after the fixed position of the rcs um this was largely in response to comments originally coming from tom herbert um which was trying to look at how easy this would be to offload in the future so placing it in a fixed position would likely make that an easier job to solve for offload each fragment includes per fragment options that are placed before the data and these options relate to every datagram in every ip packet carrying a part of the datagram that's an ip fragment and they're things like the ocs which are always present there's also the possibility of having per reassembled datagram options and they appear at the end of the reassembled datagram in other words in the same place as any other udp options data so it reassembles into the legacy format next slide the idea of an mrss was brought up at the interim um and talked about there the i this is a maximum value of payload that can be present in a udp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "datagram it's a number that's just chosen it's chosen to reflect something larger than the typical mtu and various numbers were speculated about in the interim a mailing list afterwards and joe finally chose the value 3000 as the default expectation that a receiver could reassemble a datagram which had a payload of 3 000 bytes it's designed to be big enough so that um you can get a sizeable benefit but not too large that it claims lots of memory in the stack when it's implemented the requirement for receivers was discussed and the current id has a requirement for all receivers to support reassembly of two fragments the udp datagram so a receiver that complies with the internet draft will be able to take a datagram that has been fragmented into two parts reassemble those into a hall and this will give you effectively the ability to traverse a tunnel or to send um larger than 1500 bytes the limit of two was added for simplicity of implementation if you only had two fragments it was argued that maybe the receiver could be less vulnerable to attacks the code would be simpler and probably more efficient the actual fragment size that will be supported is a function of both the size of the underlying udp packets you can send across the path that's the that's the ip packet size and the mrss"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "so if we go to the next slide you'll see the various calculations which basically give mass to say that the amount you can expect a receiver to reassemble without any information extra than the spec would be for two fragments and the two fragments together must be less than 3 000 bytes of reassembled payload and of course all of this could be changed if you negotiate the mrss option so there's an mrss option as well which lets you reassemble more fragments and larger size and these slides have really gone through the expectation of the default behavior of a receiver that complies with the spec so next slide i think just says what i said this is a a check on whether those people who were involved in this discussion or anyone else who wants to know past comment has opinions about this design choice of two fragments and the three thousand bytes total and otherwise apart from this joe believes he's answered all the issues which were previously haunting the spec as we went through the various revisions um wanting lots of different um topics to be addressed joe believes he's now only got consistency to address and is now willing to take more comments um from the list so um that's the last slide comments please mike you should go first um um i would say that there are at least two more issues that uh need to be resolved uh one of them is that we don't have um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "specification for uh sending pad padding packets that are uh required for a datagram p plm tud uh it's not something that would require another option it's uh merely a means for the uh upper layer protocol to uh be able to specify that uh uh a uh packet is inflated uh up to a certain length with uh zeros on the end a second uh major concern that i have is per fragment options having them at all i think that is a very significant and unnecessary and undesirable uh complication on the spec and i will take uh the details about this uh complaint uh to the list uh and leave my comments there thank you yeah please do i i'm not joe um but i would like to apply a one per fragment option which is the ocs which is probably needed for traversal of a nut all right yeah right thanks so so we should we should take that to the list i've made enough of those two issues and on to david please i'm simply uh want to speak up to support um the uh conclusion on udp mrss i think two fragments is a good is a good design choice because uh it cleanly addresses the tunnel forces from uh uh fragmentation case which is one of the things that this draft's about to solve okay thanks david i'm wait um one of the things i was encouraging with my chair cut on was really for anybody who expects to use this please come along and tell us either tell the chairs or speak up on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "the list and say what it is you're expecting from this draft and use cases are really good for testing whether we've got all the features we have in the right places so the next set of slides will be presented by tom who's responsible for this little bit of work go ahead tom nice try gary you're you're involved too uh hi i'm i'm tom jones um this is our document that describes uh dplp m2d for udp options or i think udpodplpmtud as we were talking about in transport earlier um it's a small document that adds the necessary features for udp options um intended to be an example for how to write small documents like this if you have more questions you can ask magnus he asked for the document it does a couple of very simple things it adds cdp options the ability to do the required features for you for dplp m2d so you can do confirmation of connectivity um we can send probes we can validate the path and we can do um ptp handling and it's nice and short it's seven pages um since the the last revision the document was um adopted there are some temporal ordering issues between the adoption and the zero zero because i was on holiday um and so if i have the next slide um and so that gives us the the next steps so we missed one which was text on generating padding so i think we still have text saying you can use knocks and this is um forbidden by udp options this is fine because you can create padding by adding zero bytes to the end of the packet and we're actually happy with this method uh we need to do an editorial pass gory claims there's lots of typos um so i'm waiting for a pull request but we need to go through and be very thorough on this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "um we need text now to explain how dplp m2d works with fragments now that fragments are starting to settle down and because we're getting happier with the design and then we'd really like to get more comments from the working group because it's the way to move the document we expect this to complete alongside udp options um and i think once we've done the the first couple of things listed here the document will mostly be a maintenance mode until um udp options is is is ready in the working group and we'll just have to track what joe changes as joe changes things so that we stay in sync and that's all so i'm willing to give up time for questions on this because it's been adopted um relatively recently and we'd like to ensure that it can also be working group last cold soon so that it and coincides with the publication of udp options does anybody have any questions about the presentation by tom i would simply comment that the underlying mechanism here received quite a bit of review when it was part of the original uh dplp mtud so this is not new material and the algorithm is understood and stable yeah and this draft although it's kind of only just become a working group item has been around the working group and presented a number of times in the past so there have not been major changes in between these two it's just that we've now reached the stage of this document needing review from people well um when do you think we can make a new copy tom in this next week yeah yeah in the next month we can have another copy it's not it's not a problem there's a small amount of things to do so it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "should be quite straightforward okay does anybody wish to add any comment or questions on this before we close then i'll say thank you ever so much for tom coming to speak on our joint draft right um sorry for the speed at which we're going through this meeting but um it's good that we're keeping to time and the next talk will be by mike but no marcus on mpdccp so um without any more introduction would you like to update us on version two of your document yeah hello everyone for sure i'm happy to update you on the progress we made on mpdcp maybe starting with some general updates so we received a working group adoption in august this year so quite recently we are focusing now on maturity towards working group last call ideally this is alive with the timeline in 3gp release 18 because there it is already discussed as an eight as part of an anticlockwise and enhancement and the discussion is currently in the phase uh that they have i think a december to conclude if this goes for study item approval um we also interfaced uh where we now start discussions with with industry with vendors um to go for drawing testbed and implementation activities that's going on and we have some quite interesting discussions around that so i will you keep posted on that and we also in the face of next open source version we still plan to publish end of this year aligned with the latest draft updates and also provide a much better"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "performance the draft development is ongoing at github with currently eight contributors we have an established process uh with issue tracker and pull request uh used for reviews and and updates next slide please marcus what what's the timing you need on this uh to align with 3gpp release 18. i think it would be good to have maybe you're working through plus call then end of next year maybe that fits ideally but that requires that it becomes a study item approval for sure so that is the decision which will be made end of this year in 3gbp um yeah two weeks ago we published the first version of the working group adoption in that we updated multiple things though we defined a reliable exchange of multi-path options for those options where it is needed we have a consistent description of multi-part reordering so we used uh or we described multi-parts we were reordering issues as part of the trough we use diff we use different terms for describing reordering reordering reassembly and so on so they made all of this consistent then we added a very important section from our review on fallback strategies so what is going to happen if a multi-path cannot be established so for example then we it could be trigger to fall back to single path dccp we introduced the number of authors to be compliant with the rfc editor style guide and we made some minor editorial things if you're interested you can look into in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "latest version we published this week uh we made a lot of progress on describing a new hand checking procedure along with authentication capabilities um to guarantee a safe establishment of subsequent flows i will come to this in the next slide also some major work we did on defining or enhancing the multi-path prior option for fine granular steering of past priorities backup and disable part that goes far beyond the mp prior definition from mptcp last but not least we improved the operational section of the draft next slide please yeah now coming to an um interesting topic which we which i also started to discuss on the mailing list i shared the link in the chat now let me explain how we defined so far the hand checking procedure and how we improved it uh so on the left you see the initial approach we had in the draft it's a three-way approach we call it because first of all we establish the multipath connection over one link that you see from a1 to b1 it's a three by hand track as i indicated already in that one we negotiate the multi-pass capabilities we negotiate key material for later uh a subsequent flow establishment and so on um so after the multi-part connection is established so the three-way handshake was successful it is safe to join subsequent flows the issues what you can see here is the mp join which is sent from a2 to b1 arrives too early at the host b and overtakes the final bccp acknowledgement from the initial flow"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "then there's some confusion because the multi-pass connection has not been successfully established the mp joint tries to join something which is not available and in our open source implementation we then react with the dccp reset on that flow which means the subsequent flow cannot be established that is not what we want that's why we drive to improve this in the draft as well as in the open source implementation we are currently working now on implementing what we propose on the right side and what is already part of the draft so we extended the three-way handshake by an additional acknowledgement we sent from the host b to the host a with that we know that the multipath connection has been initiated successfully and it's safe then to start the joint procedure from a2 to b1 uh it's a it's a simple solution it works we could be happy with that however we wonder if this can be optimized because it adds additional delay and also it has a high dependency that all the four messages of the initial flow will arrive that's why we come to some proposals on the next slide starting again on the left and what we could do to optimize this we could again go to a three-way approach as it was before however we do not check when we send the mp join and the amp transfer arrives at host b if the multipath connection is already established we do it at a later point with the final dccp economic acknowledgement of the join process that gives us more time or that gives the whole establishment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "process more time that the initial flow is successfully established however that only works if there is not a too big latency difference between both paths otherwise we run into the same issue as i introduced um in the previous slide that's why we also do not prefer this however it's a valid solution and we are happy to discover this with you uh the preferred solution or the optimal solution bc is on the right uh because that reduce the latency of the establishment process or the whole time of the establishment process and it uses the dependency on the initial flow so what we propose is more or less to go for a two-way a reliable two-way handshake and what we also do in implementation is we already create all the necessary multi-parts structures in the network stack after the first dccp request arrives at host b um then we reply to this from host b2 to host a we have ensured that with this these two messages all the key material is exchanged which is required um to derive the tokens and hmax for a subsequent flow establishment that means we are not reliant anymore on the final dccp acknowledgement of the initial flow so this one can even fail and it has no impact because the mp joint process can a subsequent flow and can even establish the whole multi-part connection so that is a big change in the design principle of the of the hand"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "checking procedure and we want to put the question here if this is a good proposal does it make sense or do we raise raise issues like providing a tech surface for daniel of service attacks because we create multi-pass structures already in the beginning or or do we raise security issues with that um yeah that is the point i would like to discuss today with you uh coming with that to the last slide so your review is very very much appreciated and it would really help us to move forward so yeah with that i am finished for today and happy now to get your feedback thank you for the update that was very helpful when do you think you would have more information about the options and the design considerations that you just spoke about i'm wondering whether a another meeting focused on specific points would actually be a better focus for bringing in other people into discussing this do you think that you might have information about that in the near term so it depends on on what you expect so if it is just a presentation to make a deep dive into the issues then i think we can go quickly for that if you expect to have those different designs implemented somewhere and then it maybe takes a longer time or it will not be possible at all because we do not plan to to implement them before we have the discussion with with the itf community i mean i i i don't expect you to implement all the options and then come back and tell us which one was the most painful"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "and that's clearly not the right way and so you might need to take a little bit of decision yourself about which way you think might work and see if that is actually feasible to implement and then at that point it might be great to bring in more people and go slowly through what you think might be the security questions and the protocol questions and we could do that in a interim meeting perhaps dedicated to this yeah um but i would prefer and fully support to go for interim maybe we can combine it with one of the other topics like http but up to you what you think is best or having a separate interim uh yeah happy to support this and i think we can go quickly for that in the meantime we have a question from chang kanji uh yes checking here um i don't have solution uh comments for your your uh strategy here but what i know is currently in essay 2 3gpp working group it's talking about atss for phase 3 for release 18. so it discussed the possibility to provide more than two passes actually like uh two three gtp passes or two non-switch differences so here you are talking about only two passes here so have you ever thought about like three or more okay that that is a yeah uh thank you for this question i'm fully aware of this discussion in 3gpp and i think it's a misunderstanding when i presented today the figures of the handshaking process that are very generic figures that does not mean that we are limited to two flows um it's the opposite uh so we support an unlimited number of okay thank flows thank you right okay um we will talk more about this on the mailing list and if a meeting is what's required to facilitate something we will arrange an interim meeting for this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "and the next one will be greg who um has already tried once to be on the agenda and now gets the chance for the last five minutes of this particular meeting so greg you have only five minutes and do something useful please to tell us about enqueue all right um i'll skip past the first few slides which are just status um in fact that one i um is a list of changes in draft 08 that i sent to the mailing list so that's already been shared i'd like to spend a little bit of time on this one so this is a current discussion on the mailing list about nqb sender requirements and guidance on sender rates the top paragraph in yellow um describes in informative language what an nqb flow is and it describes it as sending at most a few well-spaced packets per rtt i'm going to give some examples of in today's network no more than one relatively large packet every 10 milliseconds roughly a megabit per second the next paragraph then in green points out that um just marking your packets as nqb doesn't get you off the hook in terms of implementing all of the expected features to make your application safe on the internet including some sort of congestion control or congestion response um and uh or circuit breaker um functionalities that sort of thing um and then the last paragraph is where um it provides a specific recommendation around not marking traffic as nqb based on the uh the sending rate and and the current text in that kind of blue green uh color if the traffic exceeds more than a few packets per rtt or exceeds approximately one megabit per second on an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "instantaneous inner packet basis um the application should not mark its traffic and the next slide then we can go to that uh there's was some discussion on the mailing list around um that one megabit per second number in the requirement statement and will that stand the test of time um maybe it would be better to base that on something that um that evolves over time and suggestion was something like 10 of the global average access link capacity at the time and then and then adding an example at the time of writing what that might be and a link to where those numbers came from and then at the end it does the math for you uh and it says a very typical server application that implies no more than 6.3 megabits per second at an instantaneous rate and for a typical client application no more than 1.3 megabits and here the um because interpretation of a typical server is effectively a server or an application that is it's not aware whether it's sending traffic over a mobile access network or a fixed access network um and so it's the lower of the two um but it's pretty certain it's not sending traffic in the upstream direction on an access network it's almost really sending in the downstream direction and then for the client it takes the uh the view that it's um almost certainly sending traffic in the upstream direction on an access network and uh but again may not know whether it's mobile or effect so it takes the lower of the two questions working group on that um are we happy with this with scaling the recommendation over time based on statistics that are available um at the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "time um we'll need to take that to the list um i'm concerned that you're using average across a distribution that's non-uniform but this is not the place to split uh to go to dive into the the statistics yeah okay um uh and then moving on to the next slide then just quickly um i think that's been discussed on the mailing list actually just maybe the following slide um a question from my anna um what should these nq these dsps be labeled in the iana registry um should they both be called non-cue building i mean we should label them separately again we can discuss that on the mailing list and the last slide yeah we need to fix this last i once once these edits have been made and we've settled on those um i'm hoping we can go to working group last call and i want to get a sense from the chairs as to if that would be advisable to try to start a working group last call in the interim before the next idea i think it's worth drink trying to work in robust course shortly after the first the year the other card i'd make on this is that your your light blue should text about should not use for high bandwidth um i need to redirect in detail um there's going to need to be some teeth behind that something that if the sender does that um the network that the network is entitled to uh to to evict the track evict that flow of mqb yeah okay fair enough i can add that to the list i see a poll has been started"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:16",
    "text": "so my fault i started the poll then i realized you can't press the mic button where you press the pull but at least um i'd be interested in getting people to read this recent version of the spec or the current version of the spec and see how near we are um i can't really answer whether we need more time or not um please look at it on the list and tell us your comments thank you greg and david wears do we have anything else that we should say i i have one more presentation cued from anna castura and i think anna's going to have been caught by the time so um we'll take that next meeting and anything else from my co-chairs as we finish a good move here as that that that that needs some that needs some discussion about content and i mean we we know something in the space is useful how we're going to figure out exactly what that's fine and i i pled to place um a standing offer to anna to present more data if she has any to the next meeting and we will try and clarify what goes in that document any of the final comments perhaps from where's on session one if you're still there with uh i don't have anything myself excellent martin you should take note of the multi-path dccp relationship to 3gpp that will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "discussions yeah roger that like i mean i think if if um if it's not picked up a study i might i think we need to reevaluate what we're doing for sure sure and my final thing is i expect there to be an interim before the next meeting so please keep a note out for that if you have things that you think should appear on the agenda of that interim please contact the chairs otherwise we will hope to see you at the interim or in person perhaps at the next ietf meeting that's all for today see you in the in the lobby outside if you wish to join us there and gather thank you very much everybody see you all next time"
  }
]
