[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:12",
    "text": "good morning Andrew this year as well good good morning we will give folks two minutes or so to join hey dick hello hes how are you today how hello everyone doing fine we have a busy agenda so would be interesting yeah well let's hope we don't have to talk about Vex much further it seems like it was taken a little bit off course but maybe it was worthwhile to Sun well I would I would observe um there's a couple of a couple of really interesting points in there one one being the uh the fact that we have to be International um and the other about the some some cases I think some applications and applicants will have just a different view on what they want to do with that artifact than than than others and for me I think it's just a useful object lesson in why we have to be extremely um uh abstract and and not payload U so payload agnostic I guess is the thing uh in order to keep these building blocks really applicable to everybody which is good because I think that was also a place we came to in 117"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "so we'll we'll keep keep finding that uh that nice line between the the skit layer and the application layer yeah I agree John I clearly we want this to be as International accepted as possible so whatever we can do in that regard to make it attractive broadly I I think would be to our benefit thanks okay Steve's on that's good um folks and or's on that's great so we've got two two of the the four very busy people from last week that's uh that's enough do we Steve or Ori do you know if we we're expecting Hank or your gues today otherwise just yeah well just take you um you guys uh lead so seems Hannah you happy to start now we've given people three minutes yeah uh we gave them to three minutes and here we are fabulous so what's up Steve I think I was muted when I said I uh oh so yes he's joining I think he's a little time zone shifted so right okay he'll join in a minute cool that'll be good so um talking Hank yeah yeah I'm chatting with him on teams let me just go ping him great yes so obviously we want to make sure that we're in a um a good state but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "if even if not a good State a known state for getting the draft submissions in today because today is the deadline um so we also so I want to discuss that and obviously that really Steve Hank ory that's that's um really up to you guys um we also need to leave some time um in order to discuss the hackathon targets and presenters uh because we don't have a lot of time between now and the actual meeting to out presenters and presentation slots as well so um with that um I don't know which one of you wants to lead but um can we get a view from the editors on where we're at with a submission draft yeah sure so um I've been scrubbing through it pretty rigorously over the last couple of days uh there overall there's just a lot of things that we've been evolving along the time that got a little inconsistent consistent you know everything from converging on transparency service and a pendon log um where we were using registry and Ledger in a lot of places there was you know obviously the changes we talked about last week which we decided to converge in on using the cwt claims and subject uh and then there was uh there's one other thing that just threw them my blank so all of those pieces um are now through the dock uh consistent I wanted to give one more scrub today before submitting at 5:00 pm Pacific time the other piece was there was um two sections that got somewhere duplicated over the last year or so or last six months and both of those got edited independently so one of the things was uh an update that I believe Antoine did from shoulds to musts so I I did as best I could do to go back at PRS to make sure I was pulling in the most recent"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "because like I said these two sections were duplicated and both edited independently so I believe I've captured the accuracy of the document while doing content editing and that's reflected in that PR which funny enough is PR number 118 for ietf 118 that I couldn't make that up so by all means please take a look um it's po what's do do you want to share something um or I can do that may be easier to follow along yeah that's that's a fair comment give me one second to bring it up request to let me put it on my screen almost there uh then where's the sharing button teaching you no I want to share I don't want to present ask to share youve asked can I prove that yeah do I get to change what I'm sharing do you really want to share your screen yes but which screen oh there we go um okay the ordering was different than I was expecting so um can you guys see my screen uh no uh try it again okay at least I can't see it yes and clean it's trying yep it's having to go okay now I have a red border I didn't have it okay so uh clean up for 118 happens to be number 118 um I'm going to go by"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "good kismi for that one and uh the changes are obviously in the architecture document and it's kind of hard there's there's a lot of you know if we look here it's um this is where the tools can be a little bit different so things like you know capitalization that was the simple things um I re I moved the um the trans uh the terminology section to be alphabetic so there's things like that I cleaned up the producers consumers to be the issuers in verifier as we've been talking about uh so there's just a lot of edits in that nature um if we go back for me one of the things that was helpful also was I used the iatf tools to compare the draft and that's this and what I did this is actually from 117 not just the last draft so if we compare with this tool because I I'm not going to be able to go through every change here in this call because there's a lot here the um I I guess it's not did you click on that oh this one sorry I see it's that particular tab give me a second I'll I'll paste it here I see what uh yeah you see the since it understands browser tab yeah now it works that's excellent and I'll paste it in the chat here for others as well so um you know I'd encourage folks to you know by all means scroll through and and go back to the pr itself and see if there's anything that I've missed I've really tried to focus on editorial from a technical aspect there shouldn't be anything different that we haven't agreed upon um so for instance feed see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "subject this was this discussion last week um and subject is defined here um things like uh where else was some things receipt um that's fine trying to think of some couple others uh things like you know registry and a pendon log there's a bunch of intermixing and then transparency service is an implementation of where the append Only log is the detail within the surface so I was trying to make sure that that wording um was consistent throughout and then if I scroll down further and some of the stuff is just pulling in spaces to make sure it fit into 72 characters that's why you're seeing things there but here um so here I added some more examples which pulled up from below to try to put context because as I was reading this I felt like I needed to see something and this I thought was helpful um whereas there's a lot of things and here again with stuff getting it down so that's again not changing content I don't think anybody's using this Big Blob of text or anything reading the spec so we've trimmed it down so it fits neatly um the so here terminology this is where we're starting to see um ordering differences so this alphabetic on the right um and if I continue to scroll I'm just looking for the one section where it's like there's like a big here blanks so this is where receipt was duplicated um is it just receipt there was another section was duplicated so then on on the right you'll see this is added so this was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "just me fixing um the formatting the duplicate sections so like I said I don't I'm not going to try to go through each line item here in this call but just kind of highlight what you'll see as the changes registry append Only log and so forth so the and I just added this huge amount work St thank you like cleaning all this up um and sort of like even changing paying attention to how we use the capitalization throughout the whole document is uh is is a huge mod for already so big thanks thank you so uh this needs to be submitted by five o'clock today uh Pacific time so what is it seven hours from now approximately so I'll after the call I'll continue scrubbing through this if there's anybody that sees anything that I've missed because I copied the wrong section over or if I change something that dramatically you know changes the definition for somebody please by all means bring that up but I've been very careful to not to do that yeah we have two persons in the queue uh dick and Ray dick do you want to go first thank you Hest and thank you uh for doing this work Steve this is very obviously helpful for a lot of us I do have a question though it seems like and I'm just wondering do do we still have the concept of a consumer Identity or consumer role in this uh in the in the concept right here so it's um can you see my screen dick I see the screen I'm just what which screen do you want to show uh this is the the diff screen is that yeah so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "the if we look at the diff the left is what we submitted to 117 and on the right is what I'm about to submit today so it was changed from consumers to be verifiers yeah I think that may be uh losing some of the visibility of what you know this the real the role that I know my customers are serving which is consumers in this context so I'd be a little concerned that it may we may be losing sight of the consumers if we just refer to people as verifiers because they may not they may not be verifies they may just want to you know pull down a the payload from a trusted statement to review it but should we maybe um like add organizations uh consumers or users users is in some sense consumer R add that explicitly here I would say yeah that's what I would hope is that we do have yeah yeah um since I'm next anyway let me just jump in on this one sure um I like this change to issuers and verifiers I think it's pretty important um not to be too the word consumer is just too uh uh it's overloaded with many definitions and and I think it distracts from it it gets things confused so um but my main uh comment here is I want to ask Steve if there's any because shoulds could go either way they could go toward May or they could go toward must and I'm wondering if there were any um should um questions like that that you uh when you were processing this you were wondering gee I don't know if that's a must or a May and maybe that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "would be something that we could could look at if if there were any thanks so there was two things there was the consumers and the must and should part so um we we'll go in reverse so the from the must and shoulds uh I was I didn't see anything that stood out uh that I felt was vague or unparsable just reading through it I think I've read through like four times now and I've got one or two more today um I think there was some questions around in my head as I was reading through it there's some stuff around receipts I felt like weren't as current as what I think our conversations have been and I think that's because we keep on we've been focused on the beginning and we haven't gotten to receipts so that has been that was the topic of last week that let's get this subject stuff done so that we have a stable document so we can start working on receipts this is has been one of the things that Roy was pushing on so we definitely want to get to the some of that terminology in receipts to um build upon what you asking uh but generally I felt it was good I was I was much more concerned that I didn't lose some edits when I had to merge these duplicate sections so I believe I captured those properly on the consumer one I I struggle a little bit with the um word consumer and verifier but I agree with what we were just discussing that it can be overloaded because I don't know if um whoever we want to talk about is not our technical Savvy family member will be querying a a skit um transparency service directly they'll most likely be using tools that will make that underlying query on their behalf and give them the information that they're they're looking for so I I struggle a little bit I don't I wouldn't mind I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "don't have any objection to putting the word consumer in here to be organization stakeholders consumers and users involved in but that's just to be fair like that's the kind of edit that I was trying to be careful that I didn't interject words that I knew that we were um debating about like I didn't feel that was my role in this edit was really was just content editing well in ois we're using the term relying party yeah I think that verifier may be a tricky one to use here because uh I think the way we're using it differs from the way it's being used in rats um what we're looking at here if I if I understand this properly is just someone that's looking for information from um Ledger and not a a you know a party that actually can take information check it and then return a verification so that's what I thought verif verifier meant in the rat's um you know framework so that may I don't know that may be a bad word um yeah I don't like the word either right I want go back to Consumer thanks yeah ring party I think makes it very clear that uh the action of the operator is so uh something along those lines I think would be would be ideal doesn't have to be that but something that makes it clear this is a reader of the information who is making a decision based on information that they see rather than taking action and storing that in skit as a you know a notary or a receipt uh sender or whatever I can I can easily see these two roles being you know of course part of the whole signatory process where you got an issuer who's trying to issue a trust statement and someone has to verify that before it gets placed into the actual registry itself but once it's there there are these there's this other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "role which is the people who want to use the material or look at the information so I think it you know ultimately they're the ones we're trying to get to to provide these payloads too so that they can use the information so it seems like we just need to add the one role that the actual you know users however you want to call them consumers users relying parties I really don't care but it's that it's that entity that wants access to what's in the registry and here again I go back to the registry of deeds as a as an as a metaphor you know someone has to place the deeds into the registry but then there are people who want to view the deeds in the registry and that's the role that I think we may have lost when we took consumers out thanks so what I what I'll suggest for that one is and and I'm if we can get agreement to it today I'm happy to merge it in like if there's somebody wants to make a a PR or a comment on the pr so that we can get a little more consensus on that I I'm happy to obviously make that change I just don't know if I should make that change without more discussion because it sounds like there is some angst around that so Steve I'm I'm happy to put an issue on this uh PR is 118 you said yeah number one PR number 118 I'll put the issue there but uh you know I think we probably need more discussion before an actual poll request to make changes um is appropriate but that's just what I think about it but keep in mind that we can always change it uh again if we don't like it it would be good to have um at least a version that um sort of move things forward even though like this PR has a lot of uh changes in there and if that's the only thing we are worried about we are act actually in a very good state"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "thank you H well that that's certainly the one and I I look at that you know I work entirely almost entirely on the consumer side so this is this is an area that I'm sort of you know sensitive to thanks so I I'll put another pushup I think and this has been a bunch of the feedback on the dock in general is we all tend to read things with uh biases and interpretation and and as long as like dick I'm not hearing you say it's it's inaccurate for what you're looking you're just looking for a little more clarity so I I think that is the um intentional um breadth that it supports to make sure it supports your scenario whereas there might be other sections that um explicitly State one one way or another that is more problematic so um I think we're it sounds I would interpret that we're good at this point and we can make it a little better but I don't think that's a a blocking one right now and I'll if anybody objects well Steve I'll I'll defer to the consensus on this but you know I I always as I mentioned earlier I I look at this as a I look for a metaphor here you know if you have issuers into a registry and you ver have verifiers for the material that's in the registry then who is the registry for who who who is this work being carried out to benefit what is the purpose yeah I think so that's where I think the consumer role comes in but we need something that says the actor who looks at the data and makes a decision based on it uh we could call it earthworms or whatever as long as we Define it very clearly uh obviously the best way to do it would be to get a non-confusing intuitive term but we may be unable to do that so I would suggest that we uh come up with something that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "isn't horrible I mean consumer is okay uh if we want to leave it that way but the uh you know I don't think verifier is very good just Define it very clearly in our glossery or whatever it is uh as the actor who looks at skit and makes a judgment based on the data yeah the consumers aren't really performing any type of verification and again I go back to the metaphor of the registry of deeds they're not they're not verifying the information that's there they they're just using the information for whatever their own purposes are so they're not issuers they're not verifiers they are consumers I don't know what else to call them I would I would argue and I know I'm pushing this on one way is a verifier can be a there's nothing that says it can't be a consumer I can read the information like yeah good enough so I that's kind of how I was like yeah verifier can be a consumer as well okay uh you know I've stated my position on this so I think you know as well so that's you got a couple of hands in the queue here yeah go ahead Han you're next yeah I I just want to support the term relying party and and I think the term verifier is is loaded that it kind of makes it seem like there is one true interpretation to take from the mass of data or individual statements or whatever people are looking at and in fact I think different relying parties uh which is a term that I've seen used for a long long time in this context a relying party takes all the information they see and they decide whether or not to rely on it and they may have a different um you know context they may know things that aren't AR public they they may have a higher Threat Level I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "mean who knows what but the point is whether they choose to rely on on something for a particular purpose and so I don't think verification I mean that will involve you know some very technical checking of signatures and stuff but there's also other aspects so I think for most of the uses that I hear people talking about relying party is a is a very good term should we let Hank uh speak as well why start now well because he was in for long time sure um so sorry I'm super jet lagged I was awake 26 hours and only slipt four um this architecture document is not trying to solve the whole stack from artifact to statement to transparent statement to supply chain actors that rely on it this architecture is um the authenticity level and of course on the authenticity level things uh get issued and there is an entity that has to check the things that are issued in order to uh enable postprocess and higher layers I think um the very ification verify is an over firm yes okay so let's stick with that for now um I think the the point of view di is missing here is the next layer that this architecture actually does not directly solve but it should have an overview diagram highlighting how um issue and verify I'm using the terms on the right side now um interact as uh roles and then how actual um people in need so the actors on the supply chain"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "use these constructs to get what they want I think it's an application layer it's a higher layer and it uh it it is it is um basically also this higher layer is offloading a lot of the burden of of how to find out that this is authentic to this document here and and and we can have for example the API document the scrappy document that is a higher layer for example that that has actual services and humans looking at things want to know things using uh the underlying terminology here and maybe the architecture could benefit from a composed View and saying you are here at this lower architectural level that's for the authenticity proofs and such and uh auditing after the effect and enabling and such and then another layer at top of it and this is how this could in generary work uh to support exual supply chain needs so I think that is a confusion that we might have that is just um Me Maybe hallucinating after lack of sleep and time L but uh but I think that could be the problem maybe comments on that would be nice dick do you want to join the queue are you still in the queue or is I I just came back in Hest thank you so I I guess uh I've been Maybe I've been assuming making big assumptions here that the transparency service concept is really intended to provide visibility uh to someone of what's in the registry and uh so on one side of the fence we have all the you know all the all the bits and bites that have to take place to put something into the registry and then we have uh all the services is transparency service concept that I think provides people uh access to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "information in the registry so I think having the trans if if we really just want to talk about the authenticity and the process of storing materials into the registry in some you know defined manner then issuers and verifiers would seem to be enough for the roles needed to do that but if you want to bring in the concept of a transparency service where people can inquire against the registry U then then I think we just we we would be remiss if we didn't fill in that open that open hole about you know what is the transparency service doing and for who your guess you may be go ahead sorry um I joined late hello can you hear me now yes we can hear you now okay sorry I was on mute I suppose I'm trying to understand what what is this U problem with verifiers uh that's a very well-known kind of um actor role in the supply chain uh using um this upend only logs so what what's the problem there could be other consumers or other other actors like Auditors or Witnesses but what is the problem with verifier I'm I'm still struggling to understand why should we remove it from the uh architecture document my opinion verifier is somebody who does something actively to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "uh ensure the information is correct that's the common English meaning of the word uh but a user simply reads the information and assumes the verification is accurate and just pulls it out of there I mean so there is a distinct difference between the actions performed by that actor uh if they're verifying something versus simply using it to um you know read the registry yeah you you guess this is Dick I I'm not recommending that we you know remove verifiers in fact I think the verifi role is is uh is is is important you have to have issues and you have to have verifier I'm not opposed to it what what I am suggesting is that we we have removed consumers uh and replaced it with verifiers and I think those are two distinctly different actions right one is a person actually taking some verifier I presume is taking some action to perform a verification and then producing some result indicating that something has been verified whereas a consumer is simply someone who's you know pulling information out of the registry for their own purposes like like in the registry hang on second hang on a second here so the the appendonly log is there to keep track of the information we we found when we proved that the identity was valid the cter signature by itself is is all the consumer needs it's the Auditors or people that want to go and validate the the blockchain or ask for a consistency proof that that looks at the data there is no consumer need to look at the registry a pendon log at all it's meant that there to say hey it's transparent you can go and validate it but it's not a query system it's not a go search it for X Y and Z it's meant to be the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "counter signature is there saying hey we validated the identity if you want to check to our math go and look at the registry the append laog so there's getting something got crossed here yes I agree with Roy and not only that I mean the the verifier role is precisely to do the offline verification of the cryptographic verifying of uh presence in the log without actually going in the log we don't want millions of end users to everybody to query the log and say hey can you tell me is it actually the one which is produced by the log that is not the intent of skit skit the skit intention is to have an offline verification at the end and users and that verifier is that role if if you want to say any consumer sitting on the top then maybe it's I don't think it's right place here yeah that's me yeah time check so it sounds like there's a discussion of literally just potentially a search and replace for the word verifier for another term which is the same definition just helps with the breadth of what that definition is I think if that's the level of detail then we're in pretty good shape and we don't have to solve it today we can make a subsequent PR on that so I want to make sure this is Dick again I want make sure I'm understanding because I don't want to assume something that's completely wrong so are we are we saying right now up front that the registry itself that whatever this thing is right I know there's a log involved and there may be other stuff in there but it's not it's it's not to be used by consumers to retrieve payload data is that what we're saying explicitly here yes that's the whole point of this we're notarizing something else not this is not the storage and query system okay what is the storage in query"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "system though yeah I think there's an and it's hold let me just I think I want to just add because it's an and not an or kind of thing so dick I don't think your our family members that are non- Tech are going to quer this thing directly right it's it's not a website per se it's an underlying technology the tools that our non-tech consumers use will will query the systems to get the information and some of them is lightweight statements that might be directly on the transparent service and to Roy's point for things like es bombs or other documents that are much larger it would provide a pointer to where you can get those documents or the document can say this is where the proof was made so it's it's the underlying tools that will resolve where to actually fetch the content to enable that workflow there there is a view from a use case that none of the content ever uh let's uh we have like almost only 20 minutes left uh let's wrap up that topic with John and myself in the queue and and uh we need to look at various other things for far yeah thanks hnis so I was I was in the queue to say a similar thing but um just two two two things with the chair hat on one is at a certain point talking about stuff isn't going to fix a problem so you know we do need to continue our recent good habit of of taking things to PRS and issues um but also to reinforce the point that's been made by by many folks and to make sure there's no misunderstandings um at 117 one of the things that we showed um and and was part of the slid and part of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "presentation um very clearly was this separation between a horizontal Technology Building Blocks layer uh and the application layer that actually knows what it's looking at and it's really really important that we stay on on message and on Mission that when we're defining things like cozy structures and bits of data that are moving around and stored on disk that those are extremely um use case agnostic application agnostic um and so on otherwise it simply won't work you know the the better it is for one one application the worse it will be for another so in the architecture spec in particular we have to be very careful to make sure the stuff that we're talking about here and defining is very deliberately not knowing exactly where it's going and not packaged up in in in nice window addressing for a non-technical consumer for example because that would actually make it worse at the job it's doing that doesn't mean it's not part of an application that eventually delivers what they what the the person means but I think a thing that's come up a few times and we we should all um remember is that just because a particular data structure we're defining doesn't end up in Us's hands it doesn't mean it's not useful it just means it's only part of the of the puzzle so we need to you know really quite strict on separating those architectural from technical from data structure from use case conversations otherwise we'll keep going around in circles it's the end of my lecture thank you yeah I was um so I think the the pr that Steve prepared is is excellent and uh I'm looking forward to read um the document the newly submitted document uh um sort of the whole document and and I think obviously from the discussion we have to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "know that we want to continue the discussion about this uh the term verifier versus swapping it out with something else uh so that's um obviously needed and it but it won't be a big um issue I I expect this to be resolved by either during the week the the IDF meeting or at latest uh at the ITF meeting itself so that everyone is happy and and we have a good a few good contenders already relying body is something that I feel quite uh comfortable with the other then we drifted off again on the other topic uh which is the usual like how does the solution the product uh look like that some company puts together which will be more than just uh the specification that we are working on so there will be stuff built on top of it and and I think in future versions of the document we will for sure manage to this capture this uh this view better like what's in this specification versus what's in a in a in a bigger uh uh system to make it to make it usable to the all the different parties that we have in mind we'll get there um if it's not there yet uh I will obviously carefully read through it and and see where we can add some text um so I think I think we are all on the same line here but we have different uh priorities and views on on this topic okay enough rent uh next topic we still have a uh a few other documents which we would obviously like to see uh being submitted including the use cases and the scrappy document uh can we quickly talk about those um are we going to see a use case document submission can we actually do a working group last call already or is is like what's the step status so I just real quick I did submit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "the use case document from a couple weeks ago U let me pull it up here while we're talking but it has been updated since last ietf right but then there was this other I think um you submitted the version but then you had some other further discussion is there another new version that you're going to submit or is that uh you leave it at that right now uh I'm checking was there a PR on the cases yeah there was a a new contributor came in a few days ago okay but I'm looking and I don't see any open PRS okay so but it but it sounds like we are kind of um we are in good shape in essence on the on the use case documents it's there there's a version out and and everything looks great that's fantastic um uh what about the API document copy yeah or or's in the queue so maybe we can just let him let him tell us yeah sure so the scrappy document received uh basically one poll request to update some of the API definitions and some other uh cleanup I don't the docum is yet ready for working group adoption I think it should be progressed uh outside of the working group um with you know consideration for how the architecture documents and other sort of naming and positioning issues uh are maturing um I just think it's it'll be I think it could be improved substantially before asking for the working group to review it that's but you're going to submit a version today I'm sorry oh but but you will still submit a version today no I'm not planning to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "publish any revisions for the scrappy document today okay I was hoping to see a version because then we can actually look at something uh something like a text file and also for the hackaton to have something rather than some poest well of course you can always review the editor's draft but in terms of submitting documents to ITF I think the document should be progressed more substantially before a new revision is submitted um this is H are there opposing thoughts on this h o that wants a chair something but there anybody here from the WG that wants to see an update uh that is even lightweight or is it okay to work on that uh PR level and at the can can you post the the link to the chat window so like it it sounds like you're too sh like I I remember people submitting like essentially boiler blate documents where there's nothing more than table of contents and they have no problems with that uh so like how bad is it yeah maybe we should uh share the diff to uh from editor version to um uh submitted version there say CI thing for that could do that please yeah Hank this is Dick Brooks I I know that from the use cases that I worked on um they were many of them were about how consumers would use this transparency service to get information used in supply chain validation functions so I if indeed the scope is just going to be limited to the issuer and the verifier then you know the use cases would probably have to be reduced to just focus on those functions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "of putting something into the registry think that is an excellent point um really it is I think and uh I think I would keep him at the current level so we can motivate the missing parts that you do not find in the uh cor authenticity architecture uh to make that a usable um application for the supply chain so I think I think I think it's okay but but whatever is not solved in the architure document with respect to these use cases should become the next thing it's either going to the API or to usage guidance or even other documents so that we can have the whole plora of things and and and I I I absolutely got your point because you're saying well this is over specified you know because you're not even using humans and and Supply chains you just looking to on data but I think the use cases are driving this and and and and when the architecture is stable and you can see but all this is not covered yet you can literally see the gap for the next document and that would be the document that probably is exactly what will fill out the picture for un needs Al so at least a hope so I would not um reduce them uh for now that's my individual yeah I I think we're an agreement tank I I think where it really comes down is this whole concept of this transparency service that we refer to in the architecture document um may be a little misleading and we just need to rethink you know that there is a boundary here and I think Roy pointed it out it it ends it ends with that registration that log and it's not about accessing whatever has been registered into the into the registry it's just about getting material into the registry so whole thought about what a transparency service does you know you may want to rethink having that in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "architecture because I'm not sure it's actually being you know completely fulfilled in the current context and and I think that's an excellent point there is something we have to address uh when working on the document uh very very soon hopefully together dick are you joining the ITF uh in in par or you will be uh remote I'm sorry was that a question question for me Hank yeah yeah yeah are you joining in person or will you join remote maybe uh no I I have no travel budget so I would I would beating remotely thanks okay okay yeah we will try to set up something for remote every we bring Hardware mics and and and cameras and and such thanks attending us joining us in prog so um I looked at the API document it's not that bad uh it sounded like it looks in terrible shape but considering that uh it's better than the content we had in the draft previously which was extracted from there and then put into a new document so um I'm I'm of course there's new work needed or additional work needed but uh it's um it's it's fine I I I was suggesting submitted as well but it's or's majority if I remember right yeah should prer to him on this one yeah so yeah let let's let's pick that up maybe we can pick that up on on some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "other channel because we got 10 minutes left and we need to sort out um presenters and and and things uh for for the meeting would it make sense um I want do meeting first I suppose would it make sense um Ori for you to talk about um the current if we assume the pr merges you know the current state of Scrappy in the meeting um because we'll have the benefit of hindsight of the the hackathon by then as well so uh feels like a section for there and the principles of using open API and stuff would be would would be a good thing to do so I would expect that uh to obviously we have to talk about the architecture I'm not sure whether we need to put the use case document on the agenda uh we could as well uh do a start a working group last call uh when I read it before this before Steve published this version it was already in in in good shape uh and so so it probably like won't change uh significantly so I think uh unless someone strongly checks I would like to start a working group Last Call on maybe three weeks given sort of IDF week and everything um on the use case document is there any sort of strong views about this okay I don't hear anything Hank or you have an opinion yeah I'm in favor of doing work was call to uh um um see what's What's blocking and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "then okay I could barely hear you but I think you agree with me okay Co okay so that leaves us with the architecture uh and the and the API um right now unless someone is submitting some other documents which we have no knowledge about so do you guys uh so or says you can sign me up to discuss API and receipts uh but the receipts are being discussed in the in the co working group already aren't they sort of so we had a receipts draft previously and it was intended to be a further restriction of the work that's happening in the Cozy working group um so the most common thing we see in receipt as opposed to just signed verifiable data structures is bubble data structures is skit specific claims like or you know other details that you might see in a cozy sign one it represents a receipt so I'm happy to cover discussing receipts um as conceptual messages messages modeled as cozy sign one I'm also happy to talk about that if folks don't want to cover that this time in skit and I'm skit and I'm happy to discuss API considerations those ending up to uh support the agenda on thank yeah honest the the only thing I I would suggest is you know because we're really limiting the scope more than at least I was understanding U maybe we should consider replacing transparency service with registration service because we're only talking about having issuers and verifiers and that would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "seem to be really just a function of the registration service um as just as one way to make it a little clearer on you know the limitations that we're we're envisioning in this in this consult thanks yeah we can uh we can sort of like continue discussion on on uh improvements on terminology but I'm at the moment I'm sort of uh trying to find out who or probably Sean to on who should we ask to put some slides together for the for the meeting because we need to come up with a with an agenda really really quickly um and upload that and so having some the title of the agenda and the name associated uh with it uh is obviously important for us we could do a hackaton presentation as well uh assuming that there well I assume that there would again be U some good outcome of that um two days so we can add that and maybe feedback from the use cases uh if there's no feedback then obviously we can skip it but uh yeah Roy do you have other suggestions you would like to put in the agenda I had a question for Ori actually is the consistency proof and the inclusion proof split or subtlety covered in the Cozy spec or is that something in the the skit um it cozy spec covers uh both proof types defined in RFC 9162 my understanding of skit is that skit has only ever been interested in inclusion proofs and every time we try and talk about consistency proofs people's eyes roll back in their heads and they're like I don't know what that is and they're like I don't know what that is I don't know why um no my mine don't roll back in my heads I just wanted to make sure that that wasn't just sorry can't hear you I said I said I see value for it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "100% I just as a lightweight instead of giving everybody the audit capability is consistency proof I just wanted to make sure that we were covered covering them in the Cozy spec uh well they're definitely covered in the Cozy spec but in terms of skit concept of receipts I don't think we've effectively talked about about giving someone a consistency receipt as opposed to an so that is one thing Hest that we should probably discuss at 118 which is which is which is who do we expect to do with the Audi like an audit of the read a pen Only log means you got to take the data and go walking through it and when I started looking for people that are doing it against some of our other blockchains it was like one person out of out of 3,000 I'm just wondering if there is a a need for the consistency proof to even make that need to go walking through the The Ledger or the pend only data even less frequent than that and that's is there a is there an appetite for consistency proof to solve the the lightweight audit capability um um would you want be willing to give that presentation I'm gonna be in Hawaii Dude okay uh I I I'm proposing that it's something that Steve Hank or Orie could help drop you B okay one of my team is working um yeah so I I could I could take my hat off and and proxy one of my Engineers because he's working quite um quite deeply in that space right now and is it is super important because it makes a massive difference to this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "use case is you know how how involved does the application need to be with The Ledger is is a big question the advantage of the consistency proof means that various implementations you don't need to understand their their dependently log format whereas consistent proof could be supported by 100% of the skip ledgers which is why I like it good so we're super tight on time so um what I would like to ask for is if anybody is wanting to volunteer a topic either to present or that they want presented please speak um but but let's not have any more discussion because we need to get everything down in the next 90 seconds so um AJ you gonna suggest something for the agenda whenever I'm done thank you um we'll pick it up on the uh on the mailing list so does anybody have other things that they would actually like to present um we've got we've probably got 90 minutes of material here we haven't got a full two hours of material yet so um any any fers or suggestions thank so I'm happy to have at least onethird of the session to be open discussion I think that's super useful I think it should be a guided discussion with topics and whatever you want me to present so there are obvious items like documents uh just tell me I I can't I don't want to wrestle that away on someone who wants to do it if there's no takers I can I can present on all the documents even com F Ori is like I don't know I don't want to so um so it's it's fine so I can um you can you can call on me as as a fallback uh just want to he about that shall we um just a question John shall we um we are making a working group last"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "one on use cases is it um good to rerun the use cases or what is your view uh before uh yeah yeah I think so we need to know what we're building towards and you know again I don't I don't hear everything we're discussing and the stuff on the the chat about consistency proofs and two different kinds of receipts and and whatever else you know all of these things don't um prevent you know dick for example from doing what he wants to do it's just a matter of how you build the flows between the various different bits of tech so remembering what we're building towards is um is a really useful thing do you want to do that yoges is that something you could do yeah I was thinking uh like um short 10 minute or five minute presentation on use cases just a quick recap of what we had done in the last uh like how we have built it and uh close to completion just highlight all the use cases in the document a short summary how what they are and how how they have come up in the spec no I don't I don't want to sort of like um if we start the working group last call uh if I can do that today I I will actually do that uh okay in not sure about the process here uh then we we should be like people hopefully would be reading uh the document and either are fine with it uh and then we can ship it off to the isg or they are not fine with it then we obviously need to discuss those items in the uh during the meeting but we don't need to basically read out loud the the use cases that people have already read like last year or so so okay okay then I was I was not sure how how we want to close it logically in the uh in the ITF saying process is uh like if we if we don't make further changes we wrap up a document uh the chairs"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "issue working group last call normally runs for two weeks everyone has time to review and uh submit some comments and then assuming that those there would be comments normally and those need to be addressed and then the document will be uh sent to the isg alongside uh Shephard write up which uh normally John or I would be producing or we can also appoint someone else and uh that will answer a couple of questions for the isg to um decide about uh how to move forward and to publish it and there will be reviews by us and there will be etc etc but more reviews essentially okay then we don't need to mention explicitly what has happened in the last six months okay no enough okay we ran over time already I need to be in my next meeting and I guess so to many of you um yeah Han will you be online later uh to check my PR about the references yeah okay thanks you need to talk to Steve Steve is the guy who's warning the Ben on the architecture okay fair enough yeah I I will talk to Steve offline yeah okay noes cheers thank you great thanks for your patience everybody's filled full meeting so yeah great thanks and I'll see many of you in uh in Prague yeah thanks by bye thank you so long"
  }
]
