[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:21",
    "text": "foreign hello chin can you hear me yeah yoga can you uh yeah we can we can hear you yes I can hear you thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:04",
    "text": "is working for me okay yeah we need to wait her for a few minutes I think uh Jason putting for Jason to join also a uh ask a Kai to join yeah uh okay can you hear him or sure let me ping him because he might think he was a mainly mainly is Lachlan and the kai are leading the transport okay thank you I think Jordan sent an email to ask if a lot Clan can join but I'm not sure I'm not gonna guard it yeah I wasn't sure whether he was aware about the the new time and um uh yeah yeah I think that's uh yeah we don't and next time I'll make sure I open them first"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:07",
    "text": "[Music] he's trying to join him but he got he got stuck whatever the logging process maybe that's also Jensen's case let me check with Jensen yeah I have uh Jason he is connecting oh wonderful wonderful foreign you don't have any problem to join right just make sure yeah okay but both agents and the guy he just cannot join okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:38",
    "text": "hmm is loading on the page I don't know why it can be don't understand weird should we just get started maybe Richard are you in touch with Jensen and Kai yeah they both uh Kai told me his drawing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "he got stuck and Jensen said he's loading the page I I have no clue and someone behind the Chinese firewall is always tricky I just send him the link again but uh different this is no different than any ITF meetings I guess so and I know they they're able to join usually so yeah that's okay but we do need a chance to discuss OEM I guess um yeah and uh I guess China really the following behind uh-huh weird maybe we can start with the with the transport yeah maybe we're just a good starter yeah so uh so mad matter so we can we get started probably we should go go ahead actually yeah so welcome to the interim meeting this uh second interim meeting for the for the focus of this internal meeting actually is to discuss the OM and transport and the since we have already have a initial initially working with last call for auto om and auto new transport we need to make sure the the open issue has been addressed and also we request the director review and uh some feedback we already already received so we actually keep check this kind of open issue in each issue channel"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "so so we will focus on this kind of open issue and yeah so is it not aware probably you are already familiar this actually you will be recorded and um so this is agenda for today's discussion and we will focus on autoim Young and auto new transport and so uh I I think we can switch the order maybe we can first discuss Auto new transporter so Richard yeah that's great you yeah we will speak to the agenda the positive Council Auto om and then Auto new transport and and if we have time we will discuss the next step for the working group and the for the interim meeting and we already plan you know four intermittent so two uh intermitting or dedicated to you know to resolve all the open issue the other two intermitting we will you know uh discuss the some of future work so uh these are the agenda I think any agenda Bash seems known that let's move on and uh so Jason uh do you prepare any slides or you you want to discuss the although I'm using issue tracker to to discuss hello yeah cheers and we can hear you yeah is there a meeting yeah so Jody can you have to take a minute"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "sure um thank you you're welcome okay Jason um so uh so first of which is constant autom you want to this country is kind of opening issue or current status of this Auto young dropped yeah sure uh I think you can use the GitHub issues do you want to share by yourself or uh yeah maybe I stopped sharing I can give you yeah so let's see my screen right now yeah yes we can see yeah so this is how the issues with a standard drive for diversity.com and this is such close album it's actually most awesome we have already provided solution so that everything to the so that at the first survey the different to recover the comments by the young doctor review"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "so for the youngcast reveals it's been really happily address them uh but uh but yeah for example so that they can be controller than one by one perfect about the uh they have to clarify the testified for our daily list case and the establish case and uh original uh of the uh the type of initiative simply use this screen and right now I'll be able to touch the server taxify to provide the email the concrete semantics for the follow this case for the contact name and the Medicaid the stock ID and the resulting how to limit the for my problem but the environment issue maybe we need to confirm it is uh recovery that so right now the the building I'm the first ID so they are not standard in in the active so that's just a uh provided by this document so there's no standard we can become wrapping to see what's the format so we just seem like I use the foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:07",
    "text": "uh they remember it is uh so Richard do you have any comments on this issue pretty sure do you want to make a comment s sorry I was happy with it so James I do have a question about uh the way you define for example Source ID audition ID can you show me your client ID or whatever another one you just you just like yeah yeah your ID for example Source ID for example what's the rational Define this pattern uh I think it's hard to use the kind of similar to the result item but resource ID must start for example I believe typically you must start from from from from from for example should start from from a a a letter right A to Z and capital A to Z basically a resource ID essentially is a typical programming language uh identify but here I presume resource ID can be all like a zero right and I'm just kind of curious what's the ration though the typical rule of thumb you will never do something is oh you always follow the familiarity principle right whatever possible you don't invent a new thing and it's always so annoying for example are they're all different and so what is your rationale to design a pattern of source ID or your name make your screen a bit bigger it's very hard to say from my side just a little"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "yeah sure okay great yep for example I mean I I'm not challenging a particular way uh but I'm curious why this particular way your essential allow it can be all zero right and uh uh if the pattern is at least one and then your regular expression is not right right your reputation should be plus uh this can't be uh yeah yeah you're all right you you could say you're not satisfy both conditions by the way I don't just write the right regular expression number one and number two is it does not specify this Unicode right for example all the if you look at RC 1785 they also specify they are using a Unicode or whatever from which one to which you rent and here you're just using essential strings but they have all kinds of representations right and then you really have ADD sign and underscore why this particular choice I think the uh this pattern will be just hit the same pattern with the result that we defined in the actually from 285 so yeah they the result that they actually use the exactly the same pattern okay I I can give a comment over there but be fine and with other one specified using slightly different approach"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "yeah but the contact name that have this concrete has a patterns for the attended because in JFK 35. uh just simply Define this as a assistant screen so obviously it can be valued okay so Jason and so these are the common the risk for young doctor review so you are you sure the change you already Incorporated and to address a young doctor review comments uh I think so but people can check the GitHub issues fit so it's been interested by the semantics so we have a added the reference tools file to link to the this corresponding vaccine Spotify to give some patterns and a lot of characters I think that's all they promised by the address so I I said you as a ratio you you can take a look at this open issue and to share your comments your suggestion we can check whether this can be addressed yeah yeah uh I just posted a section 10.1 I guess my overall language suggestion is given the Yamato and given that for example in 1785 is you define PID name and the resource ID is as a type of PID name so therefore everything essentially using derived types instead"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "of I guess in computer science is you do not Define the same time multiple time you define a common type where you want the essentially reuse from it for example I just posted a 7.85 second 10.1 you might Define the common type name and then all the rest uh you can just use inside uh specify I guess this uh at least when you teach programming you don't want people to redefine the same time multiple times right yeah yeah right because inside it yeah yeah this is section 10.1 you can read it from there you can refer to it and you can say hey this is a requirement and this is a common type for all these uh types of different right and everything else is using the same type definition okay well I think uh we still need to use a regular python in the young thinkers young primary sure so I I just feel you know this real name or the society in you know there's no concrete reference maybe yeah you need to justify it with some kind of example or use cases yes so let's say you're reminisce I think so one solution is that uh will just reference to the responding section of this document software is because there's no standard to pass evaluate just with this document to whatever at uh some paragraphs to describe the to encoding on how to do that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:04",
    "text": "yeah just I think one small comment is falling if I make it may come for example the PID name you can see that is encoded as no more than 64 characters right and the consideration was uh if you pick the other way you essentially allow the PID net to be part of to become DNS labeled right yeah so therefore and therefore it's not like a generic Max right and sometimes there are a lot of very subtle things whenever you design things there are there are thinking so of course you don't write it over there for example here with another right a PD name must be no model 64. of course underlying thinking was okay and someone can just take PID name and whatever kubernetes or whatever and you you turn into a a being as an app so therefore that's easy you have domain and then you get paid name now therefore you can really like represent PID name as part as a label and DS label is limited to be a six base lens right for two bits are the pointers zero zeros one one so they're all this kind of consideration that's why they're encoding in that way I think somehow if I may make a quick comment is somehow they are missing in in this spec these kind of constitutions were not with you can either refer back to it right or maybe you can bring this hey you must really follow this particular spec yes so Jason can you um go back to the you know issue list and to give a summary what a has already been addressed the water hasn't been addressed Okay so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "I think most of them have already been requested I definitely could pick some uh some of them that still haven't written in need to be discussed of evaluate so for example this one it's when you decide they there was a good time for the sum of the statistic method so I think they trying to [Music] uh I think I have a follow-up comments for some of your questions you raised in this thread yes so maybe you can check that yeah also see your comments so yeah and the anti-purpose way but maybe we need to use the guts to provide the the domains yeah but maybe uh the audience it must include but one limitation is you set the time interval with you know five minutes you know fixed interval Maybe not flexible you need to this already been aggressive actually that's a different issues okay yeah the third issues actually made by matters and yeah so currently we just introduced uh immigration parameter okay so if this issue can I addressed you maybe close this kind of issue yes I think this is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "currently we we still see you know we have 25 open issues so we need to maybe if you already have chosen you should close it yeah because uh we're waiting for the feedback from the youngster review so I just was writing the emails for how the adapter uh so after that we can close out the mapping uh but just steal some I think one I think another really issue it's about this one yeah about this one so for the matter for the metal list so in the uh actually that's 10 to 85 so the K is a season three and whether it's arbitrary decent value so we need to uh decide how to encode the diabetes together in this little um so right now actually we have to propose a white so we can use the binary to encode the object whether you see fix it before and because it requires the server side to do the validation because if you can see that another solution is that so we can use any data statement to the to include the app query uh down data structures but that means they we need to Define how to translate the young perspective to the business value yeah I see this issue maybe is you know very big issue maybe you should share to the list because you know this seems not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "available the issue you discussed in the issue tracker is not available to the magnetist okay can you share this issue to the list and we can see how you better adjust this issue sure sure meeting and so right see yeah it's this one so so the Andy also comment that will be we can add some type of fact to simplify the opportunity extension modules for example they when libraries can be possible as they certified in the face real model but some of the for example for the couple names so this is the interior specificity no display but not sure so yeah I think Andy's suggesting is reasonable and you can just Define these type definition so in an example module"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "so you can just here's a these kind of top definition will you know greater simplify this different reference expression yeah yeah is seeing is that he has already implemented the changes but only for I would say some few of them it doesn't make sense for him to uh to um to make the change so for me that's that's reasonable so we just need to explain in the I would say when you reply to the young doctors when it does not make sense that we um to change this to uh to attempt death and and that's it you have already I would say a good starting point to uh to reply to him and so just reply what you have currently in the in the GitHub and that's for me I'm already already a good a good a good a good shape for example for this one I agree with you that we don't there is no need to to Define as a reusable one but just just reply to um I would say once you have all your individual I would say comments from the young doctors and also the other comments during the um working of last call uh just send those to the mailing list so that we people can look look at it at it but for me you what you explained is reasonable okay and and by the way so all the uh all the what you the issues that are labeled as relative Clause are those personally I think that are we are almost there for them so we just need to uh to to double check before we actually um close them yes yeah exactly so so actually I'm preparing the uh email to the to 220 to see what the feedback after that uh and but but when do you think that you you can send this and this reply to Andy after this information actually uh I'm writing the emails right now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "okay that's great thanks okay I think yeah that's good suggestion we don't shoot wait wait a way you know make another revision and then we uh prepare the email to send send to the uh reviewer so so for for all these changes do do you have any timetable when you can issue the new new version uh the new version actually we have already prepared the new version uh so just some minor issues and it affect the subtract it we can we can upload the new everything to the data tracker by tomorrow yeah yeah just don't forget to add the the trees because they are of all the changes are so far there are some modifications to be brought them as well okay there is just some individual comments by CMS so uh that's been awfully addressing so right now we're trying to close all the comments by the younger reviews so Json for for this job that I think we still need to wait for some you know feedback from other directory review freedom also director review Maybe you may need to you know issue another revision but we we can quickly address all the young doctor review comments and and maybe you have another iteration for for some new new comments yeah director review okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:05",
    "text": "so any other comments for this chapter so thanks Jason for the update I think we on the track actually we need to quickly you know uh closes all the open issue and so maybe we'll move to the the second uh presentation so okay you will present so uh Team both Kai and Lachlan are here so they are the two main lead people they probably can both uh lead together okay okay I'll share from my screen but yeah I will prove every approve okay um [Music] yeah probably I just share the screen okay okay guys yes yes okay great great so Abby just summarizing the working group let's go status for the new transport document uh which is still the version seven and we are already working on version eight and the latest uh draft is already in the GitHub but we haven't submitted to their tracker yet so here is a summary of the working group let's go status so we uh received like six reviews from uh different uh territories and uh yeah basically from different reviewers"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "and then uh for from for all the reviews we already have some responses but uh and or uh for some of the reviews uh we already got confirmation from the reviewer that their uh the comments are considered as resolved but we also have some uh real blockers here as um basically we'll summarize in later slides so uh the first is from RTG Dr Early review and um I think that most of the review is some needs about the document and actually has already replied and explained that uh for example the push order does not need to be strict in the create order so uh for this review we are basically waiting for further feedback and also for the uh SEC uh security directory early review uh mostly the reviews are some needs about the document and already uh fixed in the current in the net in the next revision and the rear has already replied that uh his comments can be considered as resolved so this is a best progress that we have right now and then for the uh Ops they are only reviews uh the the comma is also mostly some needs about document and uh luckily has already submitted uh proposed changes but I think according to the reviewer there might be one round of revision I think he's mentioning that some of the proposed texts may be missing some references and we will be adding these references in the next revision and then get back to the reviewers and also this is from Spencer the art early review and basically there are a few uh slightly larger issues the first is that for HTTP 2 and hb3 they actually use"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "different ways to instrument to initiate the server push and in a last document we are using the basically the settings enable push uh uh attribute in the settings frame but this is uh this initialization process has been removed from hpe3 and it should be three is using a different way basically setting another uh uh I think some Max uh push frame ID I think that's the name and then uh I already update updated the document to address this comment and also so uh so this one can be considered a is from us as resolved and then there's also the question about uh for example there are some uh terms that we use for example shoot in the uh in some examples and then basically Spencer is a question that what if they say my understanding is that he's arguing that maybe here we should use something like must and then I also reply to his email saying that uh uh when there for example there can be a case that the tips only provide a thing uh one risk the update service for one resource while the resource may also depend on some other resources basically the dependency is not uh closed and uh there uh basically there are some for example Performance and consistent issues but this is tolerated in the current document and basically also there are some needs and I believe I'll have uh fixed these needs and we also responded with the proposed changes and waiting for the feedback I think that's the status for the other early review and then uh for the last two reviews"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "basically the TSB art and also the uh HD video review we got some uh discussions into technical issues so for the tsv art I think uh here I've basically summarized four issues so first is transport requirement is not expensive I'm not explicitly layout and then also the second issue that uh the need for backward compatibility is also now stated or justified in the document and then uh it seems to me that the reviewer is from with background of multimedia so basically he's reading some questions similar to like a video encoding that basically he argues that in our specification and also in the examples the incremental object is between two labels is also a step of one and he's arguing uh whether it is possible to uh for example provide more uh updates between different basically not between labor neighboring versions but for example uh uh providing updates from n to n plus two and also basically other possible encoding mechanisms and also the status for this review is I responded with with some proposed changes and specifically uh for the first two issues then the transport requirements are laid off and also backward compatibility now stereo Justified uh uh this is actually fixed together with some of the issues raised by the HD video review basically we need uh we add a new subsection in the new revision to clarify the transport requirements and then for the last two questions Mass increment between updates B1 and also whether it is possible to Define more efficient coding schema and uh we modify the example to show that incremental"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "changes can be offered between let's say non-neighbor versions and also it is possible in the current document to provide more more incremental updates rather than the stepwise updates but this is left as a server specific options and the document only requires that the server must at least provide the stepwise updates so I think that's the status for the tsvr review and then for the last one basically the HTTP HTTP Dr audio view um so so this review is probably the major roadblocker at this point and uh there are three major technical issues the first is the use of HTTP 2 and 3 server push and the second is uh whether the station and all users are bounded to a single persistent connection and also in his latest response he argues that the meta layer basically providing the update graph might be too complex and also there are some writing issues for example inconsistential terms and all and specification by example and uh we're also working on that but maybe today I would like to discuss and get a feedback from the working group is um on the first two technical issues so the first issue is the use of HTTP 2 and 3 server push and um basically modeling is on arguing that um first uh this functionality lack of implementation support basically we do not have a working implementation yet and also he argued that this uh the server push in our document is not intended the use of server push defining the hb2 S3 and um so uh basically my personal understanding that we maybe have two options but of course um other authors or people from the working group may have some other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "opinions but uh to me that we have basically two options the first one is maybe we can just uh spray it again and then put HTTP 2003 as another document this seems like uh an easier approach from my understanding basically if we get around uh his reviews and then the second option is that we probably need to come in Smart in that use our server push can be justified for example there might be some good implementation practice maybe not just from all working group and maybe from some other protocols but then I'm basically I'm wondering whether anyone has some pointers that we can look into and this is the second technical issue that in a current document we require that uh basically each each session where a user can request for example multiple tips and also get uh the incremental updates is through a single persistent connection and uh understanding that money is strongly against this uh tight coupling basically he argues the HTTP based protocols should be based on requests rather than connections and also I see two options the first is uh maybe we adjust the protocol and allow the same user to use multiple connections but then we can also say that it is recommended to use a single one for performance enhancements and also uh maybe the second option is to justify the design uh maybe it waste some other working examples from some other working groups and yeah probably for the for option two we probably need some feedback from the working group whether you have seen uh such use cases"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "I think for the next step uh first uh we haven't really follow up the working Google let's go inside of one group and that's probably one thing we might we should do uh at least in this week and also uh for the summer reviews I already have um some positive basically some with minor issues we can basically follow up and ask asking the reviewers whether the proposed changes uh can address their comments I think this is also uh the next step and then the last one is we need to continue the discussion with Martin and finalize the new revision I think yeah basically that's the current status okay okay so thanks for deletion worker you know continue to try to address all the comments from director review and I I think we need to get a confirmation from uh director review uh reviewers and and for for the you know Martin's comments actually he reads the two uh wrote a block and probably this is something worth to this counselor so richer do you have any comments yeah I I do and I think number one uh number I do want to give a shout out to uh Kai and Lachlan and these two guys are doing amazing work the follow-up and uh amazing so that's how our start get started to see that um second I do want to see that Martin Martin Thompson gave a wonderful wonderful review um he's uh he definitely is the top top expert uh related field um but somehow uh I I from my point of view there are essentially two issues right and we want to get feedback from the working group and I'm going to share a little bit of opinion because I think Kai and Lachlan and Walt Disney ourself well I can't make the attention ourselves but if I do ideally make decisions within working group ourselves"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "uh I would like to start with question number one uh Kai can you show the issue about uh server push right because that's a major roadblock I personally feel that uh uh it should be okay right and maybe one way out one way to design I can see that this is a tactical and non-technical right and because people can argue a silver Porsche is not very widely used and maybe eventually will go away and uh and and and the server portrait essentially intended for the server for example who has a computer website instead of approach some kind of part of image so we know what's going on but the philosophy wise to me it looks right and it should be something like a silver push okay uh right and uh I think those will be relatively on one hand it can be technical on the other hand and can be somehow also relative subject subjective uh judgment account right and so therefore that's my point of view what I would like to say is the thought in that uh for option one we already tried to really have a split that turns out to have a lot of redundancy and that's why we'll move the back and one possibility is we make a server approach as optional right so even if eventually uh I I don't know what kind of a concern uh Market would have one particular concern is eventually server push uh goes away from egb4 and then we have something which is funny so therefore then we become not future proof one possibility to make this one is we make it a is independent right and we say this is optional uh I think if we make an optional be faster approach we can move forward of course another one if we go back again with split into two documents so that's nice I think uh even in a current document server push is already an optional uh feature yeah I I think the main point here I would say Richard and Kai is that if we have the server push in the document we need"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "to clear justify why we what we will lose if we don't have it in the document so if you don't lose that much I would say it it doesn't work to um to uh to continue having this complexity in the document so you can just remove it but if we it will Define there is something that is really I would say fundamental for the protocol and we we have some evidence and benefits for having that so we need to uh to call that explicitly and clearly in the document okay uh my argument uh for why the silver push the main benefit to me is it reduces one round trip time of delay I could reduce the Silver Load right because uh server does not have to really send a updated to turn into processing a request and then send a reply and now server can just directly send a you know project promise I understand approach so therefore that's the one I think that one is benefit uh if we remove it we do introduce slightly more complexity for example some kind of clients might have more overhead right they need to really always keep on this they need to all calculation to make sure there's a pending push over there and then what if for example the server changes the way because remember the the current algorithm is the calculation is calculated according to the state which the server has more information uh we can try to justify to see why the server approach is beneficial and then we we make it make sure that this is uh optional uh would that be okay did I answer your question match so basically we make exactly in that time two to review the greatest changes you made but this is something that should be I would say um early in the document so that the I would say readers understand the rationale for why we have we have that there because it's not marketing that we need to convince is we say the um the the all the the process and also the the other reviewers who will have the same the the same comment okay so we're going to add I guess the suggestion is we are going to add a little bit paragraphs you like introduction or maybe right before the server approach we motivated why server"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "push right oh in architecture introduction or architect overview or at the beginning or probably introduction or architecture to justify why this is beneficial right and of course optional so probably my suggestions maybe uh we can you know first to discuss with Martin with the proposed paragraph uh get his confirmation also I see you know Spencer may have similar comments we need to address this kind of issue so if we can get some of you know opinion from Spencer for this issue and maybe we can you know sync up with Martin about this to see whether we can reach an agreement I think that's good yeah I think yeah as first I agree well I think Matt and change a good points uh local and these two guys are doing all amazing work so let's see what their reactions are yeah I think we can definitely follow up with money and also maybe engage with Spencer on that issue and then let's see maybe your first convince the Spencer get his confirmation and then talk away about him sure sure I I think I don't I don't think Martin Duke is here right because one thing he wanted was something future proof right you design something which somehow of course you can never predict infinitely into the future what he wanted marking Buick wanted what or ad was uh a design which is a future Pro in a sense that a very very robust whatever you change lightly and the same would always stay so in that sense I think maybe we can argue with this and we probably can also very quickly jumped out Martin Duke because indeed if more and more people concern eventually the silver approach will be go away inside HTTP then we become something dangling we should verify with all three I think that's a consideration uh luckily any quick comment from you fine"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "oh here's the fine okay great uh can I make a comment on number two because I do want to get the working group and also all experts uh opinion I do want to see some comments over here this is very tricky right and this is again and you can see technical you can also this is a code called philosopher code right or a relative subjective uh uh I can see that there's some common practice right and a client and the server indeed if you work at Google I don't if we have anyone from working with Google and so on and you open multiple connections between a client server so therefore conceptually you open multiple connections and those connections would serve as bundles right and uh actually like for example you do a bundle or even like for example you have two ports eating together a connection service bundles inside inside each connection you can have set of sessions I think that's the philosophy here should be based on requests based on connections but somehow they're also designed for example one important design is Zookeeper zookeeper actually is a session based protocol right the important part of the session is there's a connection and you are using a connection and connection Service as an envelope anytime you lose the connection then you lose all the other sub things so therefore you don't do a boundary clearly a problem here the discussion is we were thinking that if you have a connection just based like a one important part of people who follow those zookeeper design is a lot of things are empire real and basically it's temporary and you maintain a connection the moment the connection is disconnected uh the the the thing just disappeared so therefore that's actually what have oftentimes very very good robust uh for for tolerance and basically coverage collection properties that's why it's really designed and I can see that Martin Thompson has this philosopher which clearly is if you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "don't really have a concept of connections therefore you don't you don't bundle the connection with the state that's all can benefit but then there's also error correction which is something right that's why I do paper uh this kind of protocol you this even design for example I'm teaching building physical systems there's even concept called session oriented consistency model right for example read the Facebook actually cares a lot about really on right which oftentimes is really based on a session meaning you post there for your own sessions the Performing inconsistency models and so on we clearly use the session based and motivation by zookeeper Motivation by really ryw right for people who follow consistency uh design industry systems uh but this one also is that Martin Thompson clearly has a slightly a different view it is from the review I don't know what uh other people's reaction would be and Kai gave two options I think we'll be more than happy to hear about uh feedback or people will be strong strong views and we can discuss yeah I feel you know you know session bound to the single connection Maybe it's too irrespective maybe we should also allow you know onto the multiple connection and uh in net account maybe they also have a similar uh seminar work actually you know they maybe we can reference summer worker in in that accountable you know because they did a discount you know bound into the single connection also maybe bounded to the multiple connection so for example I'm not filming that but I'll be Monahan for example one benefit of abunding uh state to connection is for example their typical uh even for example keeper is you have a they want to say availability for example if a server is available"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "and if it was a connection This Server should automatically move so therefore you don't have a steel State automatically you also would automatically essentially Implement for example unlock right you put a lock over there and oftentimes one meter prime people just disconnected and then you've got a dangling unlock over there which is very hard to remove and uh and just paste it like for example with submit to a irfc the draft and you send one they send you a confirmation email and you lost that email and suddenly you cannot submit that version again because that version is lost and so here if connection is disconnected automatically off stage is cleared right those are very very good benefit potentially essentially basically I guess people like how essentially this like a try and unlock a program structure right so here uh more and more we're feeding on to where like session based right for example if you disconnect your state will be removed so therefore make the server to be a very clean then of course not really traditional design like like a Kafka and those are a central message queue system you lose connection you don't lose this kind of state but actually for ours we prefer that I think maybe a net account for Me Maybe has similar use case or maybe not right so I think that's why uh uh I wanna I wanna make it very very clear it does have a lot of benefits my mind suggesting maybe for this organization we can you know uh create a you know open issue you know in a separate thread uh posted to the manager to get get the comments and we say how do you better adjust these comments okay okay so therefore uh can you as a to-do item uh Tim can you send us a net comp design right I can imagine adconf can be totally non-session based or maybe there is a session a dependent state yeah sure I will send you offline"
  }
]
