[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:38",
    "text": "okay so can everybody hear me I think we\u0027re ready to get started bill can you just confirm that you can hear me I can hear you excellent all right this is CDN I see you an interconnect thanks for coming everybody Phil you want go next slide please so this is CD and I unable to be there so we\u0027re going to try something new we\u0027re gonna try remote sharing Francois also could not make it to Prague this time so Phil has graciously agreed to sit in for us there I think blue sheets should be going around did we get a someone to take minutes and a volunteer we don\u0027t have anybody to take minute it somebody volunteer for that anybody anyone all right we got a volunteer for four minutes and I already got a diaper bag excellent and I think we can get going let\u0027s go next slide please this is the note well everybody should know well the note well you\u0027ve all seen it before contributions are governed by the RFC\u0027s listed and your IPR is governed by that as well so if you haven\u0027t read it please go read it next slide please okay this is our agenda we have a very short agenda today I will give a an update on where we are we haven\u0027t met in a couple times I think last time was Berlin last year so we\u0027ll update the document status then Phil is going to tell us about the updates to URI signing Frederick I assume he\u0027s in the room and he\u0027s going to talk about HTTP delegation and then we set aside a little bit of time at the end to to see if anyone has any interesting things to bring up with respect to new work and then after that I know this is your last session of the day so we will try and get you to dinner quickly alright next slide please so these are all of oh this is the non updated version there\u0027s a typo in there RFC six seven seven zero it\u0027s not correct but these are all the RFC\u0027s we already had prior to Berlin next slide please "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:40",
    "text": "and these are all the RFC\u0027s that we have published since Berlin great job to everybody all the authors and Alexei who\u0027s not in the room who helped us get all those last three through so we\u0027re doing pretty good next slide please these are the milestones we have completed all of the milestones except for URI signing which Phil is going to talk about in a little bit next slide please since last time there were three errata filed against the triggers RFC the streaming video Alliance open cashing group has been looking at CD ni as a basis for their protocols and so they\u0027ve been reviewing most of our documents they did find some issues in metadata which we caught before publication they found and provided some comments to fill on on URI signing and they recently were reviewing control triggers and found a couple of typos in there and so I believe Rob has confirmed those on the list that those look the changes look correct so we will go ahead and push those through unless anyone else has any comments on them next slide please URI signing is our big thing left if everyone recalls we decided last time to go with JSON web tokens and those going to talk about that in just a second next slide please on the non-working group milestones that we\u0027ve been tracking rate pacing we still haven\u0027t gone gotten much traction on yet the CD ni HTTP delegation Frederick\u0027s going to talk about he has an updated draft which is talking about in lieu of the lark discussions and ACME discussions some thoughts he has on how to do HTTP delegation within the CDN I context next slide please and then as I mentioned the streaming video Alliance has been looking at CDN I interfaces they have discussed in their draft some additional metadata that they would like to see and so they have not submitted anything but we are expecting that they won\u0027t submit a draft at some point with some more metadata that they think is useful to everybody okay next slide please that\u0027s it this is our agenda if anybody would like to bash the agenda this is your opportunity otherwise we will go "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:43",
    "text": "ahead and let Phil talk about URI signing bill I guess you can you have to control the slide so you can just present from the chair I got a remote Oh excellent and I\u0027m going to turn my face off all right so I want to give you guys all an update on your i signing graph basically what\u0027s new since berlin that was our last meeting so in berlin we all agreed to two JWT from our custom format they actually made document 20 pages smaller was leveraging existing standards so it\u0027s going to require less review we\u0027re not gonna have to go through it for if no review on it and there\u0027s plenty of existing implementations of JWT that we can use that we don\u0027t have to expect people to write new parser for our old format one thing about this is before berlin we were told that we can only have one query parameter get off my lawn each and so having a base64 blob of the GWT it\u0027s not actually a regression although that\u0027s brought up a lot of times as a critique of the draft so that was the major change from 9 to 10 i don\u0027t remember when we even published n so then we had another draft 11 we broke the claim down to their own sections we added a CDN IP claim this is a version claim so that we can do upgrades and future documents and be able to distinguish between versions of the JWT we had to create our own namespace for this talk to a JWT expert as Kevin mentioned we had the streaming video Alliance review as well I\u0027d present it to them on a video conference and they gave a lot of good feedback some of the things we changed we added a URI hash container for sub so the subject so when you make a JWT for a particular URL you have to have the entire URL in it that was kind of big and unwieldy and they didn\u0027t like that so we created a hash element that you can basically hash the URI and as long as the hashes match it\u0027ll validate also the GWT header is the same at the beginning of every GWT or it can be as long as you\u0027re using the same signing parameters so we created a metadata header so that we could pass that out-of-band to make the the JWT even smaller and also the CDN ivy claimed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:45",
    "text": "that we added we made it we changed it to be optional and assumed it to be one of absent so for the least for the first revision of this of the spec the the CDN Ivy won\u0027t be in there won\u0027t be required to be in there but if we ever update this to a version 2 it will have to always be there we also specified that we must use URL encoded form of URI when comparing and Kevin gave a very large review and I went through and made all the changes that he requested and then we did a draft version 12 which is the current draft version and the big thing we added to this was HTTP adaptive streaming this was something that we had in a separate draft for a while because there were some IPR concerns and working group decided that that was resolved they offered us to use it under good terms and so we merged it back in with with the JWT we had two new JWT claims that we had to create for that so there\u0027s now CDN I ETS and CDN is TT just in case people don\u0027t remember about the HTTP adaptive streaming that\u0027s the ETS is the amount of time that gets added to the next token when it\u0027s chained and stt is how the token should be passed and right now I think the default value is only equipments so we already have some feedback that we got about changes that should be made so this is going to be another provision of the draft so it was requested that we have a CDN is CT registry so that we could have other values in there so right now there\u0027s only cookies but - then peg - working group wants to add more things to that registry and rather than having to have something that updates an RFC we\u0027re just gonna have a registry so people can add more stuff to it and also there was some confusion about key usage and how you can just distribute keys and why we should be using symmetric or versus asymmetric and I was actually covered in a paragraph in the original draft that got moved during the great JWT changeover so that was added back in and these are both open pr\u0027s against the github repo that houses the draft so if anybody wants to review them or has any other issues that they\u0027d like to see changed from the latest draft would be great to create a few on there so I don\u0027t know if anybody has any comments on this or questions on this and really I feel like after those maybe "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:47",
    "text": "those additional cheapy ours that is ready for a working group last call but I want to know what you guys think and if you don\u0027t think it\u0027s ready what do we need to do to make it ready because this guy\u0027s been around for as long as I\u0027ve been part of this working group which is a couple of years now anybody even even like a thumbs up will be great I see three to four thumbs up but alright alright good um I\u0027ll just try been here I think it\u0027s had a couple of good reviews I did a a pre Shepard review which was large as as Phil mentioned the SBA guys reviewed it Ben\u0027s reviewed it the authors have reviewed it I think we\u0027re pretty good I think once you get the updated rev out with the last changes you want to make I\u0027ll start a shepherd review and we can start the working group last call unless there are any objections no objections all right then Frederick it\u0027s all yours hi so this draft idea is to take it into the hospital Michael sorry the idea of these drops is to take it to account HTTP delegation mechanism that so we submitted this version that had some objects to the metadata interface to support the ACMA start wrapped set has been recently adopted by me working worked and it is dealing with chopped term automatically renewed certificates this proposal in fact provides the DCN with information about credential when you are that is the CA is producing on the earth of the user yet so in the star courtroom we are focusing on the bootstrap bootstrap interface between the you CDN which endows proxy ACMA client and the G CDN which is the star planes so in the bootstrap face we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:50",
    "text": "mainly deal with how to prepare the just like mist our mechanism for instance get some for the city and for the decedent to get some information about that says the star proxy or the CSR request all those all the next steps are high in fact see our lady to the star API so we propose the metadata interface objects so you can see here we have two new objects first one is secure delegation which indicates between the between two CD ends which is a dedication method so here we have for instance ik mr. delegation innocence and we must also advertise for which pass button and as much so delegation will will apply to as the next object is the specification of the ACMA star delegation meter so we mainly provide some information about how to trigger the select mister the division so those tulips objects can be still discussed of course this is only a proposal and I think the CDN work CC to see Jenna what I working group should should working so for the next steps we we plan to add support for equal subsets if the draft is adopted in TLS working group that is unlikely to occur and we also want to discuss audio delegation solution for DNI such as Kobe or potentially there and another step would be to identify changes on City Auto ctni interfacing such as the control interface like for instance were to force the renewal of of certificates and the last item would be to as I said "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:53",
    "text": "before to discuss another bootstrapping face with intervals so that\u0027s it this is Sanjay just one quick I think I just noticed that the very beginning of your presentation if you can go back just for clarity for any any reader that is reading it the sub-bullet where you say provides VP CDN I think you meant star not start so I just make sure that that\u0027s clear so that in anybody reading it you know understand that we\u0027re talking about the star and not not start who you confuse with yes I have a have a couple of comments I sent some comments to the list about the metadata objects themselves I think I think we there\u0027s more in there than as necessary and but we can we can discuss that but with respect to the sub certs do you see that as something that should be combined with acne or is something that is completely orthogonal to acne and thus would warrant a different draft or did you see all these methods as needing to be together I think subsets would be quite different to my brain yeah given this that is preferred to Jeremy yeah yeah can you hear me yeah why not opposed to merge object later but at this step is preferable to keep each delegation solution separate okay that\u0027s fair so you\u0027ll you want to update the draft and then have separate sections with different metadata objects from each of the different methods yeah on a registry - to accept a new one in the future depending okay so one proposal could be that city and I walking boob out of the scrubs I\u0027m not sure that that it\u0027s quite ready for that point I think we need to possibly have another iteration on this refinery in a bit and if you are going to add "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:53",
    "text": "additional things like sub certs for I don\u0027t remember there\u0027s another one at Fort Berk that would be something very different are there good yeah for what I know from Iike this absurd is solution is Tina under works on but they should post a new version before the next ATF so for the next meeting we will have to object one for the star Agni approach on another for serve certificate okay this is Sanjay I just just to add a little bit more onto well I think the the important thing is that the sub certs deals the delegation in a very different manner so I think based on what has been published that draft which we should probably you know in the next iteration here because we probably will not wait until the next draft comes out what we we can do is that make sure that we add as we understand from the draft and we circulate our updated draft in this working group so that at least we can make a decision about whether you know that work seems like something that we want to pick up Thanks I think that\u0027s fair I think that\u0027s fair yeah I just like to see that that filled out a bit more so that we can get an idea of what\u0027s what\u0027s involved okay um I guess so so if you guys can can do another Rev and then we can look at it I haven\u0027t really thought a lot about how this fits into our Charter we may need to talk to Alexi about that and modify as necessary but I think at this point it\u0027s looking good looking in the right direction but let\u0027s see what what it looks like in the next rep okay sure thank you thank you very much give in to her me sorry yep you\u0027re for clarification so are you going to ask for now what excited to update to the charter of the DNI or are you going to wait until next year maybe I am going to go ahead and start a conversation on what we would need to do if we want to extend the Charter but I would like to see the next draft before we decide to do so yeah thanks okay so do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:56",
    "text": "so we have the agenda back perfect we have reached the end of our scheduled agenda at this point if anyone else as long as we\u0027re talking about the new work we will probably have to reach our turf or anything beyond URI signing so if anyone has anything else they\u0027d like to discuss the mic is open okay I\u0027m Rachel from Highways coming up and she\u0027s gonna speak okay so I we\u0027re trying to just once use the projector as we all know that the video industry developments the 4k 8kb are in a are they both requires much higher throughput and bandwidth and also North latency for example by choose a limited like 500 million family users using 4k TV and also for the optimal VR network the performance depend was requested about three cigarettes and remittances about less than eight minutes ago and also that video its emerging and the developing very fast so it also requires much higher demand on concurrency continuty and so facing all these "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:57",
    "text": "challenges that some Indian developers CDN service providers and operators for courage to reduce backbone penguins and also their lower didn\u0027t see the purchased at ten come and also friends some kind of plan to bring down CDN notes so because the appear operators they have reached central office resources in the network idea is true of the CDN downward previously it\u0027s the city note sorry previously the CDN knows just okay it\u0027s very highly at the backbone so maybe we can consider to download them to the Metro which can utilize this the operators central office resources so on the other way CDN downward also confirmed to the operators the crowd trend of central office resources so different from current operators CDN it\u0027s especially for a tech the IPTV market for example it\u0027s typically closed and vertical so we propose some kind of concept to horizontally decoupling the CDN Network into CD encore network and this idiom access network a Cydia core network folks on the upper advanced CBL ability to which is very strongly related to the contents and also the Cydia access network it\u0027s better it\u0027s desk ability provides basic ability which is really irrelevant to the contents so terrorist speaking what we are proposing is a three layered city an architectural CDN Czar\u0027s TDM parts and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "CDN ours so which is a very much similar sounds nice account computing so the city and stars folks provide providing the Advanced tab in affinity on services like the user interest forecast and hot content delivery and the past never it provides general contains delivery cabinet E and for us it provides computing and storage resources so combining paths and us we can provide some kind of a basic platform which is operator crossing which is which means we can have some kind of information resource sharing and open interface or open idea API between them so post CDN service providers and the CDN and also the operators they can get some kind of benefits from from this kind of architecture for the CDN service provider like him folks much on the upper layer advanced service and for operators they can utilize the center office resources which is currently not so utilized high hiney efficiently and also for operators they can reduce the reduce the backbone investment which is caused by the very strict requirement as for k8k or the uhd industry development so it is some kind of post the technology in innovation and also business model innovation it needs tight cowork with CDN providers and also telecom operators so this that\u0027s why we are here to present this kind of idea since all of you you are just the the you\u0027re just right stakeholders so thank you thank you for your attention at questions Sanjay wishes so I just wanted to ask what exactly are you looking for this group to do here at CDN I yes we think that you\u0027re currently the CD CD and I you previously you have some kind of work to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:02",
    "text": "try to do some interconnection between CDN service providers but we think that it\u0027s not sufficient enough so I think to image the whole the acedia industry space so such as the new emerging application needs like the ultra high-definition video industry and also like IOT smart city etcetera so we can discuss together how to bring how to emerge the market space and also to utilize many current resources and also to discuss how to a corporation so maybe we can consider for CDI our suggestion is to is that we maybe we can consider this kind of a wizard this is meaningful for all of the CDN stakeholders if that\u0027s in if you are interested in we can have a further discussion and maybe it maybe some new topic or new maybe new new direction of this city so s4c denied working group maybe it\u0027s a it\u0027s like maybe the the next the next page or maybe we can reach other the see didn\u0027t like working group yeah that\u0027s just our suggestion so we\u0027d like to hear your opinions and feedbacks okay so is there anyone else at the mic yeah so I have one question does your solution reuse the cdna interface like as a meta data interface or the trigger interface yeah maybe we will consider as the existing interface and and also including what sitting I had has already down but we firstly think that it\u0027s a it\u0027s like a business model innovation which at first all of the CDM stakeholders we should get some feedbacks from operators like you and also CDN service providers like Akamai yes so yeah current city and I work they work we must consider that including "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:04",
    "text": "okay so I\u0027m not speaking I simply said I\u0027m trying to solve a business model problem with a technical solution I think both first the business story I think the story must make sense then the there must be many technologies like the transportation or ro team maybe yet currently I think the most important thing is we make consensus on this kind of idea I\u0027m good answer I\u0027m gonna insert myself here as chair so I don\u0027t think designing business models is what were what we\u0027re here to do but if if we have a technical need or a solution that we can develop that\u0027s that\u0027s something different in terms of whether or not this applies to CD and I I think what we need to see more of yes we can recharter if we find something that we want to work on but if this is all intra CDN it\u0027s clearly out of scope of CD and I we have always said that the CDN I interfaces can be used internally but we are not focused on that usage but if you if you wanted to put together a draft with a use case that that describes how to use CD and I that I think that we give everyone a much better idea of what it is you\u0027re trying to achieve and how again like Emile said how the how it works into the existing CD a-- and i interfaces or what enhancements may be needed similar to what we\u0027re looking at with HTTP these are based off of the existing api\u0027s and we\u0027re extending them to do something else we can certainly extend them to do something else but um I think what we need here is is a more concrete understanding of what that interface you think is going to look like or what it is that CD and I can provide yeah I I see was from being that yes we think that this is a great opportunity here since we have CDN service providers and also the technical operators and I think city and I itself maybe it\u0027s not break the city my original principle so yeah I I think our idea is not breaking or not going for the other direction I think it\u0027s it\u0027s like much deeper interconnection or much deeper yeah to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:04",
    "text": "into the orders that come the the the cooperation between the stakeholders okay I think it would be interesting if you wanted to put together a draft and submit a draft with a use case and and how it relates to CD and I existing or what enhancements you would be looking for that can help push this particular model and that way the the working group could evaluate it in a more concrete manner so I would encourage you to write a draft and and submit it to the list write a draft and um you the internet draft or yeah yeah so yes a Michael Michael yeah I think I think is the first I think the next step for us is you know discussing some use case and problem statement you know to submit a draft to hear to that CDI to check is there anything you needed to do in this working group and what for here are single CDR I we need to in the following you know we need to focus on the technology for example to check a weather is there any something new besides what\u0027s the existing protocol is defined here you know okay okay thank you thank you thank you very much thank you then I jump in here real quick and ask if everybody\u0027s on the blue sheets yet is there some people in the back it\u0027s there\u0027s one floating around back there and does anybody know what the other pen is because I have another blue shit you\u0027d up here without a pen that I could pass around all right go ahead Kevin okay does anyone else have anything they would like to say if not thank you everyone for coming we will get you out to dinner have some goulash and we will see you in Singapore thank you very much "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:26",
    "text": "you "
  }
]