[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "I'll try to last through the meeting. Copper won't fall asleep. Fall asleep, just make sure the, you know, at least the microphone's off. Maybe the camera's okay. Right. The note taker should should just rerecord that fact in the note. You know, in a minute. Alright. Maybe I Dave, if you You sent one slide deck today. I do have that, and it's in the tracker. So I think I sent the one resent the one that was the, the overview, but I have the one on security and one on the act. It doesn't match the agenda you came up with, but it we'll just do we'll just I don't know whether we'll modify that or what whatever. We'll get to an agenda bashing in a minute. So it's only us, online because I thought that, BP will also be That's what he said at least. 6, Yeah. And I think he said that. Yeah. So? Alright. It's it's one after. I'm gonna give my co chair Maybe a Yeah. Or so? So I saw Tom. I saw Tom for a second. Yeah. He's he's there. Yeah. I'm here. I just I'm here to say I It's weird. I can hear Dave and Soren quite loudly. Chris, I hear you very faintly. Is this better? Little, all the way in Australia, course, here. of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "Hard, hard. At that old picture of me, how does the IETF still have that one? Wow. Well, you you feel young. You feel younger. Alright. Brian, you're on. Are you You with us? Tell you the so our our, wonderful AD just commented and that we are in a the plenary room with let me count 123456 people, for a room that holds 500, maybe more. Yeah. Yeah. I have been really working hard with the secretary to get this room. To actually do all in feeling like this is a big thing. This working was big. You had a good one to see will say I did joke with them on the way over about, like, about that. Alright. It's it's Hey, Chris. Yep. You can hear me. Right? Yes. I've had problems with me to echo audio before Alright. Got it. Sorry about that. It took a while to get logged in. Hey, Brian. Hey, sorry. We're gonna get started. We have a reasonably packed agenda. So for those who, aren't aware of the is a recorded meeting. So, don't be surprised. You're in NFS before. If you're here by mistake, welcome, a bio drink, stay for the whole thing. Here's the note well."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "I'm I'm obviously getting, if if if you're getting the Friday version of a week of Chris at IETF, Presumably, you've read this, already for those. I know they're some folks online who may have only be doing this meeting. This is the typical IETF Notewell, Be familiar with this. You agreed to them when you signed up. Has to do with intellectual property disclosures, anti harassment, etcetera. Be nice to everyone. Note really well. You know, We're here about you know, possibly debating ideas, not about anything about attacking people. Again, you know, treat people well. Alright. Meeting tips. Hopefully, if you're on-site, already, you've seen this here's the give, give, two tips for remote folks. And resources. If you need this at this point, I'm sorry. It's probably a little late for you. Okay. Agenda and bashing. So welcome to bash. Dave's gonna kinda cover something related to those topics, yes, but I I'm not I'm not gonna have 40 minutes of time, but, more like 15 or 20. That's excellent. We're not our goal for this, the NFS V Four Working Group has fairly regular interim meetings where we've been trying to work through some of the topics. That Dave is roughly covering, and so I'm not trying to replicate an interim meeting for this in person meeting, but, slightly more broader set of topic. We will continue with interim meetings as you will see as we get to the end of, kind of chair stack, etcetera. So thank you, Dave, for that. And then we will go into"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:05",
    "text": "I think it's, Tom, if you're not so I understand it's gonna be more focused on kind of NFS, some ideas for a possible 4.3. And then we have, some topics more related to RDMA and, that kind of optimization around AI models. Anybody like to bash? Okay. Moving on. Document status. So Congratulations, I think Kristoff and there's some other folks online, NVMe layout is going to progress to RFC 9561 you know, soon ish, it's in the final stages of getting ready for publication. So Good on us. Tom, if you wanna possibly step to Mike's comment, We have some reviews of layout, rec on the list. There was a couple of small points on that. And I would be okay. I mean, those for me were more knits you know, a little more explanation here or there. I'd be okay to advancing that to work in group last call and getting the rest of the set of reviews to kind of progress that. Any comments you wanna make on on where we're at No. I I I got some really good comments. The reviews. And I I thought they were on point And I hope I addressed them. There might be I think there's one outstanding I'm not sure which review we're talking about. I did too this week. And, I'll work with the the person who submitted it, it to to iron it out. Okay. Then I'm likely to start a working group last call, I'll work on, like, with you where that next update is, and then we'll start you know, and and hopefully we can finish that set of reviews on that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "You don't need to sit down because now we're gonna go talk to the Delta and you sent an update to that. And I think you've communicated was ahead, and I know you talked to the editor, Where do we stand? I don't know. That's that's for you guys to tell me because I'm apologizing for being late and I don't I certainly don't account for any changes I made this week. To have been read by anyone at all Right? That's not how I understand the process works. It's just I had the time to do it. Yeah? Okay. I'm I have a question about your your comments. Is this 04 Is is this the final thing, or do you want is the mobility 5 once you're able submit that we should look at. I already submitted the 04 The estimated one this week. And that's that's the one you submitted this week. Okay. And you said you made further comments beyond that? Or did No. I did not say there was another document, Dave, that was had further comments. Yeah. And Dave, in general, can you join the queue? And if you're I'm gonna let this one go, but at least say your name, if you're not joining the queue, Oh, I didn't get note takers. BP, are you taking notes? He said yes. Okay. Yes. Thank you, Tom. I am. Yes. K. Great. Thanks. Yeah. So the the the reason I sent it back because I thought, like, has wait for long. I understand. Like, we didn't have time. Right? Yeah. So so so, I mean, and and I don't have any problem with, like, how working will take the decision, but this need to go to work on last call. I mean, if if we if we proceed with this 1, so we have a 4 now of this. Right? So people go ahead and read that one, make it a, like, maybe you can do it short last call if you want to. But then you push it Further,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "for further things. I think that's the right way of doing it so that we also know, like, there's a changes changes needed. Those are well read by the working group anyway. I have a comment on that. I don't disagree with any of that, but I would like you To access because I was replying mainly to you. I'd I'd like you to say either okay or not okay on the changes I made. Right. And and again, I know in a sense short, so Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. I'm I'm gonna do that one also. Okay. Thank you. I'm gonna do that. Definitely, because Yeah. And then we can As as as you said, like, People can read it. We can go for a short working blast call, and I can take it forward. But it Okay. And then we're gonna hear about 5661bis, internationalization and security ACLs. So that covers everything that's either, an accepted working group doc or has been kinda covered in the interim Am I missing 1? Layout? No. I have I have layout WCC as well. Okay. Sorry. My bad. I missed one. Oh, Hey. My name is David Novak, and, hey, I just that layout WCC is listed in the the documents as expired. Hard, but A friend is at the time. The reason the reason why it expired is I'm sorry, Dave. The the reasons why it's expired is the last time I had a document up for review, once I updated it, the timer started again. So I didn't want a timer to restart I actually am familiar with that. I I'm I missed it. Sorry, Tom. What's can you give a It was out for review. Did we get I I'll I'll admit I lost the bubble. I'll I'll have come up with, but it it's either going for Adoption into the into the group or last call. I can't remember which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "I've met the line. I'll I'll follow-up with you offline. Yeah. Okay. Thanks. And, and sorry about a losing track of 1. My apologies. Okay. And then I think we're, See, I'm Oh, I do wanna announce or kinda give a status update on this. So GitHub As we talked in last interim meeting, group said yes to GitHub. I wanna do a brief kind of statement about it. So there is the GitHub sites there. XDR reference file is up there. Thanks. For Tom's help pointing to me to that. Security 08 pretty sure I have the right number in there is is up in there I've put about half of the issues that are in the appendix of the dash OA document into the issue tracker on GitHub. My goal and and Dave, we're gonna have to work through this. We're not there yet. So no need to, but my goal is to be able to kind of do that tracking through through GitHub and to organize interim meetings a little more around issue tracker in GitHub. When I get there, Dave, I'll probably work with you on how we kind of work through that process and and what it means to the document itself. Capturing what you put in the document as your issues Okay. Fine. I will I will I will I will work with you on that. Yeah. Just Yeah. you know, call me or me when whatever whatever you need to if you need help. Well, we'll do. And then, mailing list is requested. It's in flight. So there should be a mailing list, related to NFS before for kind of GitHuboutput And then users can filter that or use that how they see fit. My my toll won't let me get in the queue. Tom paints. So, Chris,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "can you publish something telling us how we would add a document I have cause I I have documents on GitHub my own repository. I'd like to move them over so that it's a group thing, not a me thing. I will put something on the list about that. I'm following if they're actually up there, 88748875 is kind of processing. I'm not there yet with kind of the continuous integration, the automatic, like, document processing and that kind of stuff. I'm not close to that, frankly, at this point, but I'll put something listed in we can work out details. Alright. Thank you. One to one Okay. And I think I'm Yeah. These are these are slides for later at this point. Alright, Dave. Yep. You're up. If you wanna request Control. Okay. Let's see. Find the red icon. She asked to share a screen. Is that Is that the right thing? I think so. And I will Okay. Let me, Okay. Can people see this in my slides? RFC 5661 biz effort. This is just a short set of slides. Covering all the documents, you know, I'm I'm dealing with Okay? Next slide. Okay. The 2 that I'm gonna focus on today, and I'm gonna have significant talks about each of these. 1 is the security, which I think is is Current. As as dash 08 and, I've made some changes, the changes I could make in time. Hey, Dave. We don't actually see the slides Oh, you know? Well, okay. I said, what do I have to do?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "That's I'm seeing a screen share is being started. So you've done some do you wanna share a screen? I That's why I said, I wanna share the screen screen. Okay. Share. Okay. Okay. We have your Gmail I don't need that. Alright. Alright. Let's see. Here's Okay. This is a slide. Alright. Now so let's see. Where the hell is this thing? No. I lost the, oh, Zoom. Okay. Here's the this is it. Right? Right? Right? You're gonna have to request it again. I can't get to the place where I do request it. Alright. The next Alright. Let me just join again. Okay. Okay. Here we are. Okay. I've requested Alright. Ask to share screen. Alright? Except No. That's not the right thing. Mission. Oh, wait. Yeah? You you you're there again, Dave. then Yes. And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "Okay. And I wanna share a screen. So I said, except and then it you know, entire screen. Okay. Let's see. I'm actually Okay. This may do it. Alright. Can everyone see it now? Great, please. Yes. If you can make that bigger, it would be Really welcome. Okay. Yeah. BNF? No. Not yet. Well, Alright. That's much Alright. better. Parts from me. Alright. So, Security, which is at 8, and I made some changes from 7. But not all that I would like to because of the, you know, the the day crept up and me and I had to submit what I had. Big changes were This was a response to discussion at an interim we split up the axle stuff. Into a separate document, which I'll discuss in another talk. And we had a shift that I think was prompted by, by Chris's comments about switching to numeric IDs. And I have a I think people I think people should look at that and decide if that's really where we want to go. I didn't feel that was the only way I could see to address, Chris's Chris's Chris Isitions. Then I have a actual document in there, which I just submitted the dash 00, instead of, Crude."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "They created this big things and then said, oh, by the way, but you don't have to implement most of this. Therefore, It was it was It's very hard to figure out what part is So what I did is it changed the focus of made the smaller subset The canonical description saves these these things, the 3 Read right and execute. We're were privileged that basically you have to support the functionality of unique cycles, and then you could port. If you if you finer grade as as as as a separate option beyond that. And that work is not complete until the deal won. But, however, I do think the 00 is reasonable and I will I will I will want to see the discussion we can have. And then, I will produce an old one as soon as I can based on that decision and work I'm doing now to give some more substance to the Apple feature at at which I which I added. So part of this thing, probably this demand that I miss is it's both describes apples for all minor versions and Defines an extension to be applied to to Inaservv4 2. Waiting where I'll parallel with active support, you have an Apple features attribute. That tells you that where you can find out What the server supports? Whether it supports unix, axles, The full energy 4 or some hybrid, pretty much everybody's sport either unit cycles or hybrid. I don't know. I haven't seen the full thing. There are a lot of things there. I'm I'm not sure ever wherever it Anyway, Let's move on. Any any more comments on about that or questions about that, or should we move out of the next slide Go ahead. Okay. Alright. So now,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "We're we're with the 025661bis. And I think I need to update. I haven't started on the work, but I think it should be out within April. Needs an update to reflect the changes that have been made in other documents, and there was one that that we just discussed on the automated list that we may I'll make internationalization. That's also delayed by by my focus on security. And, and that is also gonna be a new there'll be a new crystal draft with the proposal of how it could resolve the issues with the we've seen with external reviews where one group like it, one group of people like it, The other one doesn't, and we have to figure out what to do about that. And also this 5662 biz, which is Still a personal draft, and I think There was some discussion with between me and Tom about whether we could make a the art changes. And I think we do have to make some, but they're very very restricted in what we can do. Basically, when change type defs, basically, We can't change the substance of XDR, but We can change comments. We can change what type devs. And I think basically, I asked Chris to just dip those and see, and we'll have a discussion. Maybe we'll have it in the next the interim meter about any of the if there's anything that's in there, That's that's unacceptable. Alright. That's that's an so I I don't think we can change typedefs because someone might have that would necessitate recompiling in some cases. If they're using that right now. Well, if they're a bowl of OPEC, all opaque, We made change like this in in in in 75, 75, 31. I think these kinds of chain. Anyway, Alright. When we have once we have the diffs, let's let's let's discuss the details."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:06",
    "text": "Alright. That's the that's it for this this mini deck. And I think Let's see. I have to, okay. Let's see. Okay. Alright. I gotta Security. Okay. Now now can anyone see it or south I've chipped I've switched slides, but I think I have to re Alright. Let's see how that how we how we can do that. Stop sharing. Okay. I'm gonna share again. Nope. That's not it. Alright. Alright. Stop sharing. 9. Okay. I hope people can see this. Let me make it bigger. Alright. People see that? Kind of. Alright. Okay. So I'm gonna discuss"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "the changes that I made in 8 and that those were submitted in by the deadline. And, also has spend a little time explaining the basic reason for this new new approach to security. So let me So the reason we did this I mean, he never needed a new document was need threat analyses. Better discussions of offices. And the, existing discussions just say, well, it's it's optional, but There's no discussion of what the security consequence of of using it are. And, Also, now that we have, RBC with TLS, We did discuss the availability of encryption. Without without RBC sec GSS. And the and the old scheme We had to have you had to have RPCGSS but you didn't really have to have it because all of this was optional. And then left you that encryption as a routine thing. And that's something we I don't think we live with. And the other other reason to make this is address the pervasive under specification in the in the existing documents. And there's a focus on achilles, but as a result, of the discussion we've had, axles will be dealt with in the separate document. And which I'll also talk about. Okay. So in going from 070, I split out all the accolades related material. There was a lot of comments, the effect that it was hard to review and make progress on the document. That was in the same thing. And I That was a lot of trouble to do, but it turns out after going through it, I figured that was the right decision So now I now have to agree with the group and and and decide to do this thought that was a good idea. Anyway, in slide 4, I'll discuss the, The details and and describe something about the new documents. And the other thing, the other thing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "was a result of Chris's comments were string form numerical IDs. In the NFV 4, we switch from being a 3rd 2 bit integer to being a a string and over Of the history of this We've we've come to allow numeric IDs in in the form of strings, and it was in in previous specs that was sort of denigrated, but wasn't clear why it was just felt to be a bad thing to do. And I think that by making that not a requirement we we can say, well, you can put these mac and mac and tables if you want, but it. Yeah. They have to be same on both sides and it's possible security issue. And so you'll see in the in the in the in dash 08 to how this is addressed. I hope this is okay with everybody. Alright. Now we'll move on to Okay. Alright. So had a lot of work splitting out the actual materials, which was moved from securto7 to now 0. The disc what's moved is a lot of a lot of the text scriptions of accles and ace's authorization authorization model I've had and the process of moving that, I'll also put it in more detail. And found some issues that haven't weren't satisfactory for us. So authorization using axles and then other uses of axles that is audit and alarm. And then, a lot of cases where There's interaction of axles and modes. And, that they can be kept in sync and that There's a lot of material on that, but it has has to be clarified. And, there's a lot of opportunities where booked different different implementations have the ability in the to use different mappings"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:04",
    "text": "and I don't know how people can have interoperability when that's the case. So anyway, that's one of the issues they will will also be dead in the it dealt with in the accl's document is the interactions of accl and modes. Alright. Next slide is Okay. The new approach to Merrick IDs. I think Chris Plunk is out he his way of was addressing describing this problem was you were the the definition of identity was not clear. On the other hand, it was clear if if someone limited in NFV 3. We just had this 3rd duly numeric idea, but But people decided with good reason that that wasn't flexible enough. Eventually, we'd all flow that. We've had multiple domains, So it was decided to make that a string. But, the string that's straight. That flexibility was was created by the domain at domain format. And also, It was very appropriate when you we use the RPC sec GSS or or Kerboros in particular because the dumb the domain is is was a curve roast realm and the name was provide by Kerboros. And in that case, The implementation The interface simply does not have deal with mapping. The the thing that was troublesome. I think that was you would, Chris was referring to. Was because of the because the need to convert to name was applied to all uses, even in our sys, Well, a, wasn't clear how you do that mapping. And you could use I think was some feeling that was implementation advice, but it was implementation advice on the server and the client, and they had to match. And where they match. And then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "you could see this this needs to do this mapping creates all these avenues for tech. So, basically, what I did was say Okay. If you're using a if you're using Osisk, you can use the form. You don't have to feel bad about it. And, I think that's the essence of the change and that which that change is in dash 08. And I think people should look at that and tell me if if they think that's the way we should go with that. Tom, Thomas. Right now. Sorry? Right? So it this time is is the quest is Is it just the owner and owner, I mean, the principal, or is it also the owner and owner group in the get out of reply. Yes. Alright. So I don't necessarily agree with this because your your change is saying that If you're using off if using kerberos and you give it a stringified numeric ID, you're not gonna accept it anymore. not saying you you you're not I'm not gonna That breaks existing implementation. I'm it anymore. Well, I saw NFS for error, bad owner. In the document. Sorry. I just read it. Okay. Maybe. Okay. Alright. So, There's no intention to say that it's invalid, but Okay. But then we can take that as something to to to clarify that. Okay. We'll discuss that. Look about where that is and see what what I think implies and maybe we'll we'll discuss that. Alright. And, okay, let me talk about, yes, then we'll need to do it on a the 9. I found that this There's a one of the things that it should have moved to the echo diamond was not was section 1.3.2. I did some work to fix fix up the engine map document references, which which was a lot of of the work of splitting up the code. And,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "so we've had some discussions basically, one of the things that Tom pointed out is have to make it clear what I'm what I'm object that I am not proposing that, you can't you but there is still that error, and I'm gonna have to make sure that the the scope of that error is is pretty limited. So, like, one of the reasons that would know you do that is If you re if you're raising RPC sec GSS and use a numeric ID, I think given that is valid, but given when you're using assist. I don't think that would be valid or shouldn't be valid. So I have to figure out how to do that. I'll I'll look at that. And and if I expect that Tom and I to come to agree on that and that if if we do, that will be in in the09. Alright. That's that. Now let me see Okay. If I can move to the, okay. Now does everyone see the new active document? I can do that without Unsharing is sharing? Okay. People see that that looks like it. It's just not it in presentation mode. on the screen if you can put Off. Oh, I can present it. Okay. I'm gonna okay. Presentation. There is there's an icon on the bottom. You can push them, but Daikon Why I'm talking What? There is a icon on the bottom of your screen showing like a presentation mode. Mhmm. Okay. Here it is. Okay. Yes. Alright."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "So the contents of this talk Like, it's filed. It's up. How Axles were dealt with an existing kinda screwed applications that is RFC 7530 and RFC 8881 And, What I did with axles in in slide 6, I'll discuss what I tried to do with the articles in the earliest sets of the documents. And then what I do in 00 and we were going beyond that. So Next slide. Alright. It's still slow showing your slides. It's it's still the old flights you wanna just stop this share and and share the new one, Dave. Yes. Okay. I guess, so how do how do I do that? Alright. Stop sharing. Alright. Now, what do I do Start a new year, whenever else. Sure again. Star re no. No. That's why we need it off. I don't know how to do this. Alright. Okay. I'm just gonna Okay. Stop screen share. Okay. Add screen share. Okay. Except Windows. Alright. Let me see what I got here. Okay. Alright. Alright. So let me see. Alright. Okay. Is that what is this the right Okay. Is this the right slides? Yep. The contents now? Yep. Yep. Yep. Okay. Right."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "So what we had in the past is we had 2 Apple models. 1 the XDR was based on the on NFV 4 axles. They were modeled on new windows axles. It's not clear who with support. In particular, it was difficult. For many unit systems to to support that. But, The spec was written that, oh, by the way, you can also A Of not support a lot of things. And as a result, that is very hard to think and So I I I that was problematic for a number of reasons that, we can go into detail with It's been so they would tend to support both of those in the same thing was resolved. It was hard because you couldn't keep track. What? You couldn't track what was really described when really because there were basically 2 features, and they weren't described as 2 features. And as a result, it wasn't clear. How much of one feature you have and how much of the other feature you have? Alright. In the past, NS34 has never had to provide semantic descriptions of what it does. It could always just As with NFV 3, it was based on posix, and everybody or whether everybody knows it, we can reference, posix, and this method thing. And But once we decide to include Acl's articles weren't part of politics. All of a sudden, we got without really realizing our responsibility to describe the semantics, which we didn't do it very well and we just assume it would happen magically and didn't. So anyway, that's the problem that we we we I wound up dealing with. I tried to deal with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:10",
    "text": "So, I think going going back in time, it looks like what we should have done was doing the simpler model first and deferring the extensions, but that would then the working group couldn't agree to that. And, As a result, we couldn't we could have also done 2 separate attributes for the 2 models, but that seemed like too much work. So now The other thing is we have to be able to at least You as the client, you have to be able to figure out what is the guy is the server supporting. And so you can he could so he want if he wanted one positive examples he could get those. And if you want extension to it, you could know whether whether they were whether they were supported it. Anyway, Let's see. Okay. So now I've produced a 00. And I'm with the new approach, and you can see this in the 00 even though it's not complete. The core requirement is unixcycles. And those 3 bit bits For write date and red date it and execute are not optional. Every all the Right now, they have, like, there's about 20 bit, 20 AC mass bits, and they were all essentially a option, but Now the 3 of the required and the rest are optional and as a way to find out one's a remnant. And need to have some attribute in the I propose it'd be called a feature."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "Which is a perfect attribute that enables you to find out What the support does based on the, you know, part of that process that we're gonna go through is find out what exists in quotations. I had produced the document, which I think I sent out. About what is due we'll what is important on tap. And turns out they're, it supports most of this finer grain, but doesn't support separate write an append data for for for files. It doesn't support any of these special users And, you know, quite frankly, it's a hybrid of the unix model and the NLSC 4 model. And I think we'll see a lot of those different hybrids and ability for clients to figure out what people support. Yeah. So there's we've had some email traffic on the want to comment that we've had some email traffic on this on the list about what free BSD and what Linux and and some references to some old SUN documents to And it seems like that is, that old son document is kind of a reference that Current implementation. that That's in that. Okay. So it's good. I should, you know, gather up know, that stuff up. Okay. So I I'm describe what's in 00. Now in the, I'm gonna produce a 1. And that I'm working on that now, and I will not be done by by the next interim, but hope to be done by the end April or maybe the the second interim."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "This would have, This would have an active feature attribute. It will be a v 42 extension with extractable XDR. For the extension. Like, all extensions have and, we'll move the bulk of section 132 to secured to the new document, but that really deals with accruals. And any results of any working group discussion either we have here or in forth from interns or in the or on the work working group. I think Whatever I can do, can get into that 1, and I hope that will be the basis for discussion of, perhaps, of when we want to make that a work. Vacuum Alright. That's it for me. Questions? Yep. As soon as he can get in queue. Okay. I'm stop sharing. You can keep sharing. That's fine. Well, I don't have any to share. The the whatever. Let me get started. So, I mean, the biggest issue with the whole thing is really that The NFS 4 working group back in the day went down this pretty crazy route and I think before we get into details of what echo model we actually want we need to figure out if there is any reasonable path to get there because It is at least as far as the specification goes, highly incompatible change. I mean, from my point of view as a local UNX file and developer a very desirable one that how do we make it happen without breaking the world? And this is what we need to figure out before we go into the nitty gritty details. Well, I Part of that is is, what I'm doing about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "similar to what was doing to the assist. We cannot say Oh, used assist, and you have to change your you you spec, you you your implementation, but we can say Look, if you relied in good faith on the existing documentation, and even though it's a mess or something wrong with it, You continue to do that. But but we have to tell give you some indications of the negatives that would go with that. And That's why decide to, essentially allow propagation of this, but you have to document what you've done. You have to if you're supporting, just and if it's, unix saddles, you can document that. This is the the actual feature. We'll do that. Anyway, that's my model. Okay. We can discuss Yeah. I think with Tom's Tom's slide going up and that would be one logical answer is do a new minor version where you can up between echo models and maybe that's actually get segue without actually knowing what he's gonna talk about. Okay. Fine. Alright. Let that's I'll I'll be looking I'll be listening to his talk with with that in mind. So I'm done. Got Oh, when we're ready. So the the title is indicative of the mood nff64.3 question mark, because I didn't know. Oh, it's not coming over? No. It is, but I mean, you can control the slide if you so desire. Because I wasn't aware that I was giving a presentation. Made a side comment or 2 in the working group interim meetings. And I got asked to do a session on this. And it actually turns out to be, I think, is gonna be a good session. I need bigger fonts that look like. Does that come across okay on this they look small on the the TV. It's fine. It's fine online. Alright. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "I'm I'm gonna kind of paraphrase 8178. And this is my paraphrasing, not anyone else's, Why do would we wanna do a 4.3? Alright. We have something we really wanna deprecate. We have something we wanna make mandatory. Like security, maybe. We have a new feature that breaks the the minor versioning, which, basically the client in the server cannot infer what the behavior is. I'll give a good example of that, document that no one's read because I just published it this week and you shouldn't have read it yet. And it it it's, the layout recall by device ID And I've realized as I wrote it, there's no way that Hussein 4.2 server can or client can infer what the server is meaning with the callback. So I I'm not saying I have to make a 4.3 for it. I'm just saying there are examples of When when you can't infer the correct behavior, you have to do something else. Alright. And then the final one, the one I thought I was talking about is when we've gathered enough luggage for the train to depart. Right. So we We kinda did this in 4.2, we had 10 different drafts for 4.2 or of different feature sets. And instead of going forward with each one of those drafts, We all rolled we rolled it all up into 4.2 had a really nice little document. I go fast, by the way. Please slow me down if you have to. Not aware of it until I'm I am. Death. Just one point. My name, David Dovick. What you described as an The reason we did the extension model that nice For the 2 document, was not so nice. Cross"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "it dragged on and on because we rolled it into one document. And therefore some things could not go forward until until everything was ready, and it just took years. To get done, you know, we thought it would be So there's there's something on the other side that's the reason the RFC 8178 was done. You you know what? I actually agree with you. And, if we had if we had had RFC 8178, it wouldn't have taken as long. We we certainly see with the new features we're coming up with once we acknowledge that the word is we are extending and not replacing the minor version, I think it's very simple to do. So I agree with your comment. Okay. So now we're all in agreement. What's going on? Alright. And so One of the other reasons that we might want to put a new version of security. So we can't we cannot say that we require that these minor version suddenly becomes secure. You can't change implementations that have shipped. But we could require that 4.3 becomes secure. And a comment I had made several years ago, not so years ago, but several intern meetings ago is that if you look at, We call it s andd, but SIFs, Basically, Microsoft is always epic and has always said that it is going to be secure. Right. And so we can make the same thank now, you could say, well, what does this do for 4.0? I don't care. There are really not any implementations Fortile that are not solve by better 4.1. What about 4.1and4.2? Well, 4.2 is very simple to bolt on to 4.1."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "And 4.3 should be as just as simple to bolt on to both of them. Right? And I before I get to conclusion, I I wanna by the way, talk about the size, We should be going downhill on the sizes. And we're not necessarily because we we revisit the abyss But, I I felt one of the other problems was 4.2 was it was too large. A 104 pages but it was not anywhere near as painful is 7530. And so I would be happy with the one page 4.3 spec document that just said, security is now required to implement and deploy. Doesn't tell you anything else about it. That's what they have security to document is about, but but if we just made that one simple line in the document, and said, this is 4.3, we'd be good to go. Alright. Maybe write one page, but when they Once the ISG gets done with it, it's fifteen pages. Krista. I'm I'm done, by the way. Dave, get get in queue and you want to comment, please. Yeah. I I see slightly conflicting goals here. Right? I mean, if we actually want to address the longstanding dragons which there'd be security including echols and Internationalization primarily. There's a few smaller dragons too. We're not gonna be done with one page or even fifteen. I I agree, Kristoff. Very useful, and I think it would be way more useful to roll all of those dragons into a new minor version instead of these Sorry for the bad name. Weird documents trying to guffer everything from Fortetto up. So I agree with your sentiment on for, by the way, very, very strongly. So I don't think it's that easy, but I think doing a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "4 to 3 that's focused on these longstanding issues that we really need to sort out, is a good thing. And there's probably a few other things we wanna roll into it, but we also should be very careful of not rolling too much into it. So so, Kristoff, I'd like to say what the the way I view the other documents, the security document, the actual document, the internationalization document are those are for the new releases coming out and they're they're we only have them in one place. So you don't have to replicate internationalization in every draft. In every minor version. You just say this is the document that describes it from 4dot 3 on. And we reference it from the 4 to 3. Yes. Maybe I mean, the problem. I I need to we need or we, not I. Need to think. Hard about the interaction because I just don't see how we can do security or air quotes or internationalization completely stand alone. I'm not sure if it's gonna work. It would be great if it did but I'm doubtful. Yeah. No. I'm I'm saying I'm a big advocate of not having humongous documents anymore. Agreed. Alright. Dave? Well, I am skeptical of one page, but I think that's that's overstate, but I do agree with the idea. That was about a small set of things and something that is is is shorter. But I think realistically, it'll be it does 1 or 2 dozen pages. But I agree this is a good idea and we should proceed on Alright. Thank you. Yes. Yeah. You're good. Sorry."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:10",
    "text": "Hey, I I just had a question for Tom Haynes that raised my end. Is that still a chance to ask Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Go ahead. Yeah. So, Tom, I I love the idea of a one page thing and security required. What about all the other stuff that I was gonna expect in a new minor version? About apples, but but, you know, Yeah. I I I thought that was a Chris Kristoff asked. I mean, I I well, I like I said, I I actually my my view on it is we have an axle recommend that says, from 4.3. This will all be Matt, Matt, Matt, Well, I'm not asking apples. I'm asking about about what else needs to go into such a document? You know, if achilles is the only thing, well, okay. Let's well, you know, the only other thing that might go in the document is to say that here are the operations and and such that we've introduced from 4.2 document, and we might wanna roll them in. Yeah. Codify them a little more strongly. You mean yeah. Yes. Yes. So it so it's basically taking stuff that's already lying around, optional or not fully developed. And writing it all down. Yes. Can I ask a slight clarification there, which is would would you be okay? I mean, Is your proposal also saying Hey, this is deprecated. Yes. Okay. Right? My name my name Rubin I'm from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "Today, I'm gonna talk about a typo rocky bits in network Computing. But I don't think we find the the I think it we find there are right work rub, you know, rock is come from At the end, it's part of jump off. It hits the crow pot. I think We're looking at you, Chris Tom, and Yeah. Okay. Okay. Let me know. Okay. As we know, the the total time of which and the AR. Mhmm. Mainly have 2 pot the first part is the computer time on CPU and the GPU. The other part is the collecting community time. Let design propose a rocket based collective communicating off road or 2 streets. In order to reduce collective commuting the time. Just for this in example, the traditional all reduce have many issues. They need the market in their accent between worknote. A fact, a packaging. And the the last communicating between booknote increase What network worker loading? Yink For example, in call reduce have many other warranties. What's the he can reduce, in the extreme between work now to improve the facing of the class computing. The second they can decrease the total communication along work now. To lighten the network of workload."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "We We we in network architecture how shrinking part The first, is Yinca Sweet. 2nd, it's yank plant. The last is incorrect case manager. Industry to reach responsible for MMP may in network compute based on the aggressive trade generated by incorporating manager. FPGA 4, you know, in in in your network computer with the compute with the future transition to high performances with cheap. Ink client, is a type of soap the well. Who is the which is the plug in with the NPR and the maker library. To send the collective community message to English. EM is a generate and a manager are aggregating trees. Deploy in a relative follow through to the street. And the monitored, schedule of computer task. On we design goal, we is to reduce the in the action between compute nodes. To improve collective communication efficient by all 50%. The second, to reduce our communication of community computer not by over 50%. We We can't see it from the finger. We only mainly 10 Sherry potter offered a the the the traditional UNFA plot first is we have 2 softer wire chain at AM, it's a new controller. Of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "network computer. The young client is a new plug of PM, PMR, or Nicola Library We use the FPD who link, to the Swift. It's a new ink inging. We didn't attend anything of the compute node Include the GPU and the make. Just wait. Yeah. You can just wait take our some some pick up some path to go from the DPO He he can a cree case and The collective community kitchen to the sweets. From the from the and the to the root. April the the the the the collect communities and then in if the English switch router, The the the aggregation is complete and the the quickest thing result, we will broke up the bag to all know the All computer nodes So So, in offload the commune the the collective communicate. As we know, Open MPN to make define the MPR client community interface. But they allow should part to to have this owing in plain fencing. You can't take over the NPR cloud communities in the face of NPR and Nicole. And the in plane to each wing."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "The there are there are For example, m MPR all reduce interface record executed it, actually, in the young clan. In the client, send the the data for NPR, like, communities and and the receive The the yinc package from the that the package between yinc client and the yinc switch, I inquired it your Rocky More than 2. We attend the rocky package MDF collect data. The limited data include the the ink the information just like as tree ID. Collective communicating type data type, and the operator type Rocky is a material technology. Rocky bits, collected, communicating, uploading 2 suites, have many advantages It's the best way to gain performance and, if you can include the low latency. Improved results you you Tell everything. Flies tomorrow risks. Resource or location and the reliability. We didn't attend of compute node hardware. It can comfortable with my to run the CPU and the make. Interest Tracy built the, orange orange node prototype within laboratory. The deathclothes of plastic come in Sean. Feed back and the clever thing, Harry,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "welcome. You can reach me at this email address. Thank you. Tom, Yeah. Hi, Tom. I have 2 I've I've stopped sort of calling them concerns, but I I guess I wanna Mention them. I mean, the first is that Rocky V Two is not an IETF protocol. And so extending it is really an InfiniBand Trade Association discussion. Not an IETF discussion. And my second comment is that while you're I mean, you it's an interesting ripped presentation, interesting concept. It it doesn't feel like it's fundamentally an RDMA item item. I mean, if it were to be discussed in the IETF, I think it could be and apple area, discussion I I'm not sure what the requirement for RDMA here Feels like a a generic transport that discussion rather than an already made specific discussion. So for those two reasons, I'm not sure what the relevance to this working group might be I'm curious what your thoughts are on that I got yes, we act and the rocky wasn't to wasn't too Package. Yes. Right. Right. And that's Yes. I think, yes, maybe is a part of job for all for ibta. But, You know, This is about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "community It it it is a It's a design 2 uploading co collective communication, but I think maybe we can do something in the Hi, Kathleen. Yeah. But why this group? So, I guess you know, if you look about the charter, the scope of at a fast it it really speaks to kind of of RDMA protocols. So RDMAAP, DDP, MPA, we don't go down to the level In this group of of Rocky. Yeah. And so the only place in in, ieTF now would really be an ADs and and that if you If you wanna comment, would more likely be an AD sponsored draft in, in In arts, Would be my guess. That Yeah. I mean, I I think the the RDMA relevance was mentioned when, we're being 1st, introduced the document on the mailing list. There's a possible area of interest And the reason is that I mean, it's targeting an RDMA and And if as before is the only working group that has RD May and scope. Right. So for that, matter. You know, it it makes sense to bring it up here. But I I'm unconvinced that it's relevant based on what I've seen Hi, Tom. Yeah. Tom. I'm calling from to Hi, Yeah. Mobile. China I have something for,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "comment. And, yeah, they, Ruby and also the next presentation from me, the motivation for presentation is to, ex exchange some information for for you and for guys that are familiar with, RDMA related technologies, in in the scenario of AI Networking So the mainly motivation of us now to promote these work or propose inside, promote the, standardization of these solutions inside in that facility for currently because, absolutely, that These solutions are not within the the current scope. But, here, we we are trying to, you know, let people know more about the add may related solution for AI networking and, because, you know, the guys in EF in this working group are guys that, Very familiar with IDMA inside IETF. So I think the major, objective today is for information sharing. Thank you. Great. Yeah. And I will also talk about more in the next presentation. Thanks, Jess. Okay. Thank you. Bit bit bit You're up. You're up. You're up. Hi, guys. So okay. Sorry. Now on the there are some RDMA cushion, right, the scope of the working group and also like that. My understanding is, RDMA, maintenance and extension. Anything RDM extension is within this charter. Yeah. If you wanna do a NUCs RDMA kind of thing, or ID mail like kind of thing, we need to have it discussed in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "burner. Sure. Sure. Because you asked, so I thought, like, I'll also you tell you before he presents so he can't Yeah. can relate. You Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sure. Sure. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And also, thanks for the chase for, improvement for today's like, the presentation. So can get some Kum Gitan, he's Go ahead, Tom. Before don't you start. I wanna interrupt. Yeah. Yeah. Tom, go ahead. Yeah. Oh, I just wanted to respond as a heads comment and and that is that the the document that was published Exclusively says that I work is not useful, useful, useful, useful, to this effort I work, you know, the RDMA protocol family. Is the only protocol. We have in scope here so we'll have to work that up. It's true. That if if there were an already May extension proposed, we would we would we would we would have to think about it here in this working group. But but but but but but There's no There's no relevant RDMA extension proposed. So that's an issue. Yeah. That that's exactly why I I came up and put my head on Tom, Tom, Oh, okay. I'm sorry. It's it's late at night. Maybe I'm not fully understanding what That's why I said, I I would not push anything out right now like, because this is basically informational for us. I think that's the reason presenters are here. And, our job is to say, like, this is this is something useful? Is it, like, easy thing or doing it if we are interested, we can reach out to her. If you're not, then we can do something else. So that's basically kind of dispatch kind of thing that that's why I came into Otherwise, yeah, you're right. If something says this is Our demon doesn't work for for it for me, I need something new. This is out of the scope. Thank you. Good night. Have do what's the clicker? To, I think,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "think some other guy in the queue Yeah. Soarin, is it quick? Yes. Very quick. So the question is this. Why don't you put a draft? Why do have to you Write the draft and then we'll discuss that, I think. That's just a a presentation without understanding exactly what it goes For me, It's not useful. Thank you. Sure. Previously, we have submitted some, like, like, drop in TSB Working Group because we are not so familiar with, the these the the the walking scope of different groups And and then we see that, the IDMA might be you know, in that fast week where it might be the only place to and audio may relate to post course. So we we And we I I asked, Chris about it. So Today, I I will just am just about to share information maybe If you're interested, I will, you know, upload a new draft here. Thank you. Yeah. So I will have a quick intro. Yeah, just to interrupt soaring. Soaring, there are drafts. Were published several weeks ago and updated just recently. Oh, okay. Okay. Thank you. Okay, guys. Let when Present please Sure. They individual dressed. were Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's, sorry. Can I just go ahead? A very quick introduction about problems based on use cases. So mainly, like, our us, like, the the problem is you know, focused in AI Networking. So today's AI Networking data centers that, has some problems like, the in cost problem. And the, like, the single flow of AI traffic could be around, like, tens of gigabytes. And, the bad data synchronization will result"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "in very large tail agency and the straggler problem. And then result very low and, training efficiency. And also the problem, it reflects it in a very low compute and communication overlap, that means that the workers or GPUs, you really need to wait for, network traffic and there are a lot of idle percentage. Also about, some problems, in the the blanks data distribution, like, easy, but frequent operations that you really left to the endpoints to implement the network can now do it. And also some resource constraint problems inside the the AI networking. So primarily, these communication problems, caused by, collective you know, we need to have some basic knowledge of what it is. So it is about collective communications. It is, it is, like, communication pattern between application processes. I mean, if you are you know, something about a PC or AI networking. It has been you know, evolved for, like, over 10 years, but, I will introduce you as a basic knowledge to understand about understand about the problem space. So in collectives, they were defined, like, went to many many to one and many to many, data delivery mode, like, broadcast and scatter a one to many mode the, the data piece, will be sent from 1 center to to multiple receivers, but the difference is that broadcast is sending the same database while scatter is sent, different databases. And also in many to one mode, they will have, like, a gazr and reduce the gather, you know, a single receiver will gather different databases from multiple centers will reduce, they not only gather data, they will do some computation on the data for, and for the result"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "that, the other, you know, the other, centers might need in the next round, computation. And also, all gather and all reduce our collectives at it's a combination of the previous, you know, broadcast or gather and reduce. So this is a basic knowledge. And though here is a potential solution, like, using we call it network assisted collective acceleration. Or, you know, there are some other, a word like in network computing or computing is a network Here, we don't, you know, refer it because computing is very, you know, the world is sophisticated computing is in cats or computing. It's in another place. It's very, no general word, we prefer to use, like, collective, you know, we just offload this collective operation insights and network and use this specific word So in the switch, you can do, you know, like, replicate data in broadcast and Also, you can merge AC case in the back or face, and it already used. You can use the switch to aggregate data and do some computation and inside also inside the switch, you can do some data synchronization to accelerate, battery collectives. These collective operations are called in in in in very large scale AI and HPC system and also and the data center networking is evolving to, you know, and embrace, these, these applications. So, here is here are some, basic, I know, analysis of existing solutions. We summarize them into 2 cat race. So that's today's topic about RDMA. So, basically, RDMA is, most it is a commonly used solution in AI networking because of its high efficiency in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "and memory access, is it might not be, the, the only solution, but is most adopted in, not only for IB anime, or a rocky way to And also, the the two modes here are, like, Naka is based on, like, server to server automatic connection, like, you need to build end to end connection between, sender and the receiver. And also the second one is is based on server to switch automatic connection like, you need to build hop by hop connection. So there are some existing solutions from the industry or the academia the first one is server to server audio connection. We found some routing work because like, net reduce is you based on a rocket V2 and it designed a ring algorithm to implement our reviews So and, safe use, and it's based on a a rocket either too. And, so it will, like, know, implement, multicast inside the, like, the the, these network and, you need to build end to end audio connection and the switch will behave like a inaccurate breach like, this, between the source and different receivers. So, for for the second, server to to switch, audio connection, And, know, typical, representative is Sharp from IBinfinitband. So it needs designed, like, a tree agriism to implement our reduce and we'll establish an aggregation group or single job, and the market groups can share a common aggregation tree here that, inside the switch, we only, like, Part of automatic functions I implement in switches and also it will leave, leave, all the recovery and the packet loss processing all live to, you know, left to the endpoint for processing because of the resource constraint inside the switch."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "And also here that I work in I IETF is a you know, the only work that, based on IDMA, it's over a TCP but also for nature that, natural assisted collective acceleration, candidly, way we haven't found any, relevant solution based on our work because, and we we think the that if we implement I work, from server to server mode, that NACA functions will break TCP reliability. And also if we implement in server to switch mode, offloading Iwerp to switch may need some, to solve some problems in state maintenance. So I think there is some, protocol extension or some, modification should be down in, for Iwerp. So this is a basic analysis and they direct, we can direct some requirements. The most most important one is that, the naked function design and header definition because the the the hate header will indicate what collective operations can be offloaded to the switch to implement, like, Message ID, sequence number, job ID and the rank ID. And also, we need to bridge audience may transport semantics and also some automate transport relay related issues like reliability, and floor control and the congestion control are also required. And Also, if you want to do something and that offload some collective operations inside the switch, you need to maintain security. Because the switch will need to know the, operations and the you know, to operate on, the data payload. So resources must be isolated on switches to ensure that the and tasks do not interfere each other and lack of functions to not operate a normal shopping So we have some other considerations about,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "the, like, data confidentiality, integrity, and authentication, also operational considerations sound like, if you you can you know, for providers, so it provider, if they, you know, provide not only the network not working infrastructure, but the compute infrastructure they can make some code design, system code design for optimization. So we think deploying this technology inside the limit domain would be a good choice. So just a quick summary that we think that, the neck is a potential solution, yeah, networking, because it can increase bay bandwidth saving, avoid incast and also increase the overlap between compute and communication overlap to improve the training efficiency. And also there are 2 modes for RDMA based snicker, both have advantages and also limitations and optimization space. So we're we're here to, solid state comments and, looking forward some, people who are also interested in the work that we care about, that is IETF Interesting AI Networking, If so, that we'll be make be in the scope Oh, we we know that there is a research group called Konachief for a while, but it focuses on research. And also, want to standardize something. We that's why we we came here for quick came came came came to NF as a late for today. And also IWork may have some limitations. So will there be any study, a space, rather solutions, or extend Iwerp So, and also, yeah, in the industry, there might be some solutions all there, like, all the, RPC based, but I know that might not be in the scope of this working group. So I also will come for more discussions And, very quick, like, information sharing that we have had about two side meetings, this topic we call it SQL is a short for collecting communication optimizations,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "in the last in the past 2, in IPF 118 and 119, so you can see more information on the key Thank you. Hi, Tom. You can. Dem. Thanks. Tom, go ahead. Question on a slide, a couple back, you said that Nick Ortiz. I eat I work over TCP, Maybreak, Naka, PCP Reliability mechanism. Can you drill down on that This page? Please. This page? Yeah. See that second bullet in the eye war Sure. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, do you mean server to over mode, it will break TCP reliability I are you focused on this. Yep. I don't understand the break TCP reliability Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I would give you a very quick explanation and example example, if you want to do many to one, application. Right? So for end to end, mode, you need to, you know, between the sender and the receiver you need to build audio and connection. Right? So here, the TCP connection. Sorry. Alright? But, you know, for there is in network node, the switch, it will, you know, aggregate, the package coming from multiple centers and do some aggregation. But, you know, at the receiver side, it will, you know, determine that, it will judge it at the packet loss. To it will only receive one packet not multiple packets from the sender. So so that there will, will be a reliable mechanism. Should be improved. That so I I think, make the functions Yep. Well, that's kind of the function of TCP in the stack. I mean, the the Senders don't launch individual messages. They they send TCP byte streams and DCP delivers the data. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "I'm a little confused on that one, but Oh, It's okay. We don't have enough time to drill down on it. And the second question is offloading iWarp transport to switch. I'm not really sure what that means. What I mean that, if you wanna build audio connection between the server, and the switch. And so you need to switch implement some transport, you know, to process a protocol. Not just for the packet. That's what I mean. Yeah. Yeah. Alright. Well, that's Okay. That's another thing that I guess I ita, understand your proposal better. Because there's a TCP stream So you know, the switch is already inspect TCP packets and do various intelligent things with number you want them to process RDMA. Messages in the switch. Sure. And they they there is a to know like Sharp, it is it offload automated functions inside the net, the switch. The switch can recognize packet and process process about some functions is the transport but, you know, only part of it. And left some, other, like, packet loss processing to the endpoints So but, you know, all, the switch can do some, RDMA after know, processing. Yeah. Well, that's true in the InfiniBand Slash protocol. I'm sure I'm not sure how that translates to I work. But but but That's good to discuss Sure. Sure. Thank you. Yeah. I'll I I I'm not sure I've read your draft. I've read a draft. Maybe it was this draft. But I'll I'll look at it again. Sure. And also, more information, put on the GitHub link"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:02",
    "text": "you have. Yeah. I just saw that link and I went to the page. I'll take a look at that one tomorrow. Thank you so much. Yep. K. Any questions? Jahheed as individual, So, I mean, my best, very best, very lightweight understanding is, like, there is a server trying to connect with trying to send some data, to the network, like routers so that it can understand and do that things that not only forwarding something else. Right? So One way of doing things, you have a really direct communication between the server router So you can say, like, set up a distribution to your router and basically run your come on. Yeah. That's one of the things. Another thing is, like, Okay? I'm a router is not my endpoint. I'm actually talk sending the data some somewhere else. Maybe another server Mhmm. But then I want router to do some intelligent thing. Yeah. So I think that you're talking about the letter 1. Right? I think, you know, both. Yeah. Both have solutions. Both. Exactly. Both have solution. And and that's why I made like, I think this needs to be understood and analyze, but more than, like, the transport protocol experts, Sure. More than the RDM expert because now we are touching upon where the relationship really doesn't exist. So, I mean, usually, TCP use a client server client could be anything. Your router could be a client, of course. But then the router vendor need to understand, like, the implication of those kind of things. Right? Running the TCP full TCP stack there. The other thing is, like, I'm more concerned. Like, if we if it's between server to server and you want to tag some information on the packet or noticipate or stuff like that. It is not in a small, like, restricted constraint domain, it can blow up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "because it's break everything. so I think gonna Yeah. Absolutely. So Yeah. I mean, it's good to see who present here. And if it's before, I think there are DMX part like Tom and others out there. They care. They understand. I do really think that this is beyond this No. It it took us more kind of, like, general discussion and idea to see, like, if you really would go would like to go to that kind of communication mode, and the security analysis and everything like that. Yep. Yep. Yeah. And, also one more, like, comment that, there are some ongoing discussion in rocking area. Like, AIDC, some relevant stuff. So, yeah, today, yeah, if you are interested, I think you can just follow that. Thank you. Yep. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. We're actually out of time. Just gonna go back really quick and say Alright. Just as a reminder, Here's the little set of, upcoming interim meetings. They're already scheduled. You Hey. I didn't mean to do that. Oh, Sorry? It's on my screen now. It's on your screen too. Alright. You know, wasn't on it was sorry. I will go back to that in a moment. We're really short on time. But I will put it up there for the few minutes when we saw the room. Here's all the interim meetings. And and, leading up to Vancouver. Pay attention to the list. I can't guarantee that all of these are guaranteed to happen, but there they are. We don't have that. Enjoy Brisbane for those who haven't gone out and done stuff. Yeah. Tom, This is for you. Yet. Book your room now. I already booked mine. Don't complain to me next time."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:03",
    "text": "Alright. Sorry. And that concludes the meeting. And here's the GitHub, page. and With, kind of links and stuff. I think it's up there. Yeah. It's something Okay. Thanks, everybody. Thanks, Chris, and thanks to all the speakers. Okay. I think technically, I blamed you for my airfare. Fair. That's true. We I remember that movie Oh, so I was I was doing it, and and it was still so the thing is, like, And then we showed that. Oh, So the thing is is if I hover hover on the, like, future slide number, On my display, and it's the same display that Mike Normally, it says what's up here. On my display, it's like is what's on there. And I'm like, So I've advanced. Or not. He didn't bring up going to savings gives Fair enough. Did I it it's some of the slides. Right? Yeah. These don't turn Sounds"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:03",
    "text": "Thanks."
  }
]
