[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "oh well it's um yeah i've been getting up this week for ripe 83. so it's always interesting stuff there yeah we didn't really do it it just i mean i mean it's all a question of what you know whether you have anything to test and i was debugging the same bug for i'm still debugging it two weeks later so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "five um yep they're all there well i i set up the one for today so we can try both okay so there's a link in the um let me see can i do this right um there's a link in the minutes that you can follow so first of all we do the infinite recursion and then there's uh so you can follow this link here and i would invite everyone to try that now if you're using chrome you can even you can certainly join both at the same time um i think firefox can do it as well uh the infinite recursion and what's really fun is let me see here if i stop screen sharing that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "i could screen share that window instead no window no that's the i did that that's the wrong thing screen share there we go i could screen share the meet echo [Music] which is screen sharing the whereby so it's a it's it's still an infinite recursion but you can see there's two different patterns right so yeah so if you want to try the thing that you can join the meat echo i i would suggest everyone try that and we can see if it works for people you see because the note-taking tool right so um let me see here so you can see this part so if you click on this then your video get turned on if you click on this then your audio will get turned on and there's a you can raise your hand if you want to join the queue or not uh so that's sort of you don't have to join the queue before you turn your audio on uh but that's so so you can you're you're allowed to run up and grab the mic is the point you don't have to be polite but you can be polite by putting your hand up first um and then this we almost never use slides in this one uh it says there's no slides so it can't do it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "there's the screen share so if i stop screen sharing that screen and it'll just be me and we also want to turn their camera microphone on on the the on this side on the meet echo side come on don't be shy or is it not working don't be shy can you hear me twice can everyone hear me twice i was hearing a certain amount of uh echo but uh uh i'm not hearing it now uh yeah i turned off one of the mics i muted myself and whereby so you would only hear me once perfect so michael has joined and jerome and martin so everyone is in both of them right now it's working for everyone oh steve steve where's steve has joined in only in the uh meat echo and not in the there so um if you'd like would continue the meaning in the meat echo cool fair enough sounds like a deal ah so um can you hear me yes we can we can we can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "so um we are recording now right meat echo is recording now okay perfect um and so if you're gonna if you're gonna share then i will take notes okay i'm just gonna share the notes because there's nothing else to share right now so look at deal yeah okay cool oh uh go ahead you calling us to uh are you calling us to uh order yeah perfect and uh see um we do the notewell just by a general reference by now and let's see [Music] didn't have michael signed in yet right sorry oh michael hasn't put his name down here oh yes okay and oh you weren't signed in either but i only i because i because i zero the thing i always just leave mine in [Laughter] cool and so that gets us um that gets us down to news you can use uh which was just the no time to wait um coming up uh in early december and i'm getting from dave rice i'm getting uh emails about that now since i'm registered so that'll be fun and um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "let's see we did we did do the final dates for the uh 2022 seller meetings uh they were approved by rit and added the data tracker so those should all be uh reasonable now uh the one thing that we is worth calling attention to is that the uh we do you know as usual uh our november meeting was slightly complicated so our in our december meeting wasn't going to happen so we're having a meeting in between uh basically the ietf in november and the end of the year um so it'll be in early december so if you have a uh what is it every four if you have a reminder in your calendar that's for the ever every fourth uh uh every fourth uh tuesday of the month uh you might want to adjust that one um we have um all of our ids our id exists uh as of yesterday the one thing was that uh the uh ffv1 version four draft expires soon and i didn't get i didn't pick the date on that but uh i think i've seen one uh one i think i've seen two reminder emails about it expiring so kind of suspecting that that's uh this week if uh nothing else happens with it yes this is this week but so yeah there is nothing to to update oh yeah that you could keep um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "michael do we usually do we usually post these as uh keep alives of course should we just wait till we have something meaningful to say what what do you mean by keep alive sorry uh just just updating the thing every six months whether uh you know basically just keeping the draft alive with the data tracker oh yeah sorry yeah i would say we do um we should do that um and um uh that usually winds up being dave that that hosts them um so so yeah so this one should should get reposted uh please yes uh if we let it uh out of date what is the impact um you can't find it in the list that's all um no to say we we are still interested in it but no no big updates but we just wanted to live there's no there's no major impact if it expires it expires it's just harder for other people to find out what we're working on that's the only real real real impact okay i know i i said that i could work or not but yeah just i didn't i didn't so it's okay we let it uh out of date or we update it saying we are still alive but without any modification what is the best option um just repost it that's the best option okay so you know so we're reposting reposting dash 8 pain"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:06",
    "text": "okay cool is there anything else we need to talk about on milestones we've already talked about ffv1 before and we've already took and uh the abml we have a plan for for matroska the original plan was to have uh to submit something at the end of the summer obviously it's passed um i don't know the plan for now uh i'm trying to get rid of the rest of the issues and pull requests merging things as we go on there's almost nothing left there's still some probably i will work on that in december and after but even now we can start reviewing because it's going to take a long time i think it's a big document yes let's take the thing and the tank is actually 07 here i see okay so um if i was looking if i was looking at our milestones we have matraska and is that matraska plus kodak plus uh tags"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "yeah for now we're i think that they wind up on metroscope but i think we would have to working group last call them all together would we they would be related or could we do first tags and codecs and the other ones they can work on their own the matraska document will define what the elements are for and then mainly tags and codecs they define all kinds of values that can be put in these fields so basically the matraska document can exist on its own you can even not do the tags and codec and still works okay so uh michael if if we were going to update uh milestones now which might be a fine thing to do just for dates um so let's see first thing um our matroska dates are still april uh the 2021. um is that basically 2022 i don't know i i don't think it's 2022. i don't know what the right answer is um so i think the question is are we trying to advance matraska ffv1 or flack first i think we where we want to do i think we want to do matraska first but um i think it depends also on you know we have limited number of people and they are all working on all the documents though um yeah so tell us what the writing is uh i think that we're supposed to do matraska first it sounds to me like yeah we might get there by april 2022"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "um that that would not be crazy to me uh but i don't know i don't know the the state of the document um for that that would give us basically the entire next ietf cycle uh to to uh to uh uh finish up matraska so does that sound about right i would also put it differently so we've managed to get uh a draft out an rfc out uh each spring okay right we got ebml out in spring of 2020 and it was published in in july of 2020 we got uh ffv one out in spring of 2021 it's published in august so you know at that cadence we probably can get the next one matraska out uh in spring of 2022. yeah but i think we need to start early because either we get a lot of feedback a lot of changes or just reviewing the document it so it could take a while reviewing the document is going to take a while yeah there's no kidding about that so i think that i think that um i think the real critical thing is not when we're going to publish it but when we're going to working group last call it right and um that that may be the better thing to to decide it's hard to predict well yeah that's that's why we predict early and often right um so if i if i was setting this for april 2022 because does that make sense yeah i would want to be working group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "working group last calling it at the end of january yeah and and like i said that could that could be that could work for our milestone is actually uh submitting it to the isg which would be after we've resolved stuff in the working group yep one issue i have i think i have with you know people reviewing matraska right so we have i don't know how many here i'm trying to get to the bottom you know we have uh a lot of content in you know chapter eight schema um and it's pretty hard i would say it's pretty hard for people who aren't implementing to have any particular comments on that um and um you know then we have the other the other the rest of the document right so all i'm trying to say is that um got to read the document you got to have a high level view of the document to review it and then you got to have a detailed view and i don't think people who haven't written the code are going to have a very good detailed view right the thing that that people could be telling us can we understand it do we can we imagine that we could uh can we imagine that we could implement it uh you know basically uh they they may not be able to provide the detailed review that somebody who's implementing it could and that's and you know and that's that's kind of what uh ietf review is shooting for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "after that so um so there's some tweaks we need to make to the iana considerations particularly this 26.3 historic deprecated element ids probably i don't think we have a shorter um well we might put it in the form of a table but um um anyway there's some stuff here to discuss about about the different about what are the things that matraska creates and not so i guess spencer and i need to read that and provide some feedback as to ayanna considerations language i don't quite understand part of it so um that's the review we have to be able to do basically um that's the kind of thing that we need to get uh correct um and uh we should probably ask so spencer what we need to do is we need to ask for something like an art area review um in the winter sometime okay and that's it is is the right words that we're reviewing a consideration section for deprecated elements uh where we need to review the iana considerations period because i think there's probably some allocations that we haven't documented there um that's the rest of the file right so that's what i'm i think we have to be sure that we've gotten correct as is the piece and i think that's the part that that the implementers don't don't have as clear a view of of to what the iana is yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "uh we don't have a security considerations that i can see all documents need to have one oh it's at the top here section three yes um yeah i usually put that at the bottom but um so usually could go after section 26 or before section 26 um it's probably not true that it just inherits considerations from ebml but maybe it is uh that would be reasonable to might be reasonable to just say that well basically one main attack is the rest of the data you interpret and that would be the codec data right so yeah i mean we can tell people to be careful about the data they interpret outside of matroska okay michael should we be putting should we be putting issues in the in the uh in github for this yeah i think we should be doing that um so yeah cool okay am i doing that or you i don't know i i think that when we get to it we need to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "have done that so i think for now it's fine that it's an action item in the minutes okay the agenda cool all right well we kind of jumped right into the details of the uh yeah of course we did what and in the middle of doing it so uh the next item is to accept the draft minutes from the previous meeting i'm really gonna have to move that up in the agenda any objections to the minutes from last time nope cool no okay so that happened excellent uh that gets us to the uh copyright issues conversation with josh coulson and the ietf trust is that about so martin did yeah so martin did start a anew um and i would say that at this point we're in a position with a good position where we could mix and match as we wished and i i haven't looked at your work yet martin so i don't know i don't know whether it's better worse happier you know i have no idea you may just prefer it um but the point is that you don't have to worry about whether or not you want to go and take text from the previous document we can go and mix and match as we as we please does that make sense to you uh it was very great to have the version without copyright issue and a lot of things are very interesting in it so we need to keep part of this document and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "but yeah also being clear but about the license i sent a pair pierre with a license explicit license is it fine yes i saw that so the email in my opinion is enough yeah it's enough and we are we are pretty confident that the original author is fine with what we do so i like that the email was very positive so maybe we can merge that and after that we pick from martin interesting parts when we don't need to to to rewrite everything so we can pick a paragraph part per paragraph the interesting part yes the thing is that i wrote the thing to you know completely from scratch and i had to avoid certain parts that were in the original document so certain parts are probably better certain parts are a lot worse um so i cannot i do not prefer one over the other but i really think we should mix i think yeah i don't think you need to prefer it so i think it's a really good actually a really good thing to have gone through and done that because you know if nothing else it's probably uh rewrites are usually you usually improve things right um but so i would say i just encourage you guys to to pick and choose whatever pieces you want and you know go forward right and maybe we're close to done i'm not sure uh on that i haven't looked at the document very much"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "oh there's still a lot to do uh but uh yeah what i could do is i review the big pier and i comment about what i would like to keep for example and based on that you you do a specific pull request for specific items yes i think that would be best okay wonderful so martin is uh doing doing the mix and match or who who is doing that sorry i think martin is going to respond to jerome's uh comments yeah i wish i will do comments saying what i would like to to keep and martin can do specific pier about the specific paragraph is instead of a big block yes i i put it i did do the push request pull request just to acknowledge that it is that that i was finished writing it and so you can read it but i well we have to power up into parts anyway yeah we split fat but yeah the it is ready the the polarquest is ready so we i i command this one and say okay do a pull-up pull request specifically uh on this part and so on going to want you to put your name forward as an author um and remove me because i was only there as a placeholder i have no involvement here um so that we could repost it when it went stale um so i would say that's one of the pull requests you should make is please put yourself as an author um i don't know what info you you want to you don't have to put your your street address i usually don't i just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "put my company in my country um and um it's useful to have the country because we have stats somewhere about where people come from um yeah i'm fine with that and i don't have any i don't if anyone wants to know my street address it's already in google um but i don't need to i don't need to i don't need to put to write it in stone in an rfc uh because i might move at one point it's possible um anyway josh yes so he didn't say one way or the other whether he wanted to be an author um i would say we should probably try to engage him a little bit more and see um but for now let's make sure we have a document that's moving somewhere that he wants to be part of okay um yeah about the the license plate quest can you validate it so we are clear that uh you are fine with it so but but i don't put a license myself alone who are you asking to do that uh to you yeah because you got the email from josh yeah so i shared it so i would say it's validated i i don't know what else you'd like me to do you're just confirming on the pierre but uh it is two okay all right yeah so that's the related thing there is that um what we're trying to figure out is whether josh would be listed as an author or whether he would be listed in the contributor session section which is different from being an author and the biggest thing there is uh whether when uh you guys have seen this happen a couple of times already but uh the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "discussions that we have with that with uh the rfc editor uh the people that are listed as authors are the ones that the rfc editor is looking for uh confirmation changes that people make during the rfc editing process so if if we're not if we don't have a lot of confidence that he's going to be super responsive uh we probably want to list him as a contributor okay yeah yeah i would say that's the major the major issue huh yeah you would agree with that yeah i would agree with that that would be the major major difference at this point he we can list him as a major contributor um but if it's going to be hard to get a hold of him during auth48 then it's just a hassle uh for us to get through things um he's he's he's uh yeah i think we should you know if he wants to be involved uh we should welcome him but um yeah i i've merged that pull request with the license i i up arrowed it i thumbed it up and then i said i'll just merge it okay so it's merged it's my action blame me that's what i'm saying perfect uh michael uh we could reasonably [Music] acknowledge the [Music] 10 year old version of the documents or or however old it is or no we should we should list the the zif or however it's pronounced version of the document as a reference um and uh somewhere and say this document in the acknowledgements we should say this document is based upon the document here blah blah blah reference it by url"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:06",
    "text": "is it an informative reference yeah i would say as an informative reference perfect that should get us around almost all the train wrecks fabulous cool uh dave dave rice hang on here so dave we move to uh meet echo link is in minutes i was chatting with you i was chatting with him but uh he has difficulties to access to meet eco due to iotf and he was trying to uh to to her and so on so is that is that not being able to log in from the data tracker yeah from from the data tracker maybe yeah it doesn't have uh credentials right now cool okay dave please recover your credentials um and i'm hoping that you can try this out and let us know if it's working for you i will i will add him as uh as uh attendee bless you mute all the views"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "all right what else do we have left to do for this meeting like anything we want to talk about uh we want to talk about uh issues for flak we already discussed about it and 5v1 it is start for the moment so there is the big pill pull request to review and for my trosker there's still [Music] plenty and i think there's some merge requests that we can merge and there's some there are involved chapters that i need to work on and there are two that i'm still waiting on feedback from moritz i was sending actually a managed to remove some from the list because i addressed his issues so it's manageable or merged already so basically there's i think two issues that i need him to validate to make sure i'm not making mistakes and the rest is chapter mostly um other chapters which are rarely used that's why i think we're almost to the point we can submit a document and see what falls thanks so i have these two things to do and the rest can be merged which ones the fonts i think is addressed now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "the 115 okay well we should like don't wait for me to merge them merge the pr's i think i waited for the meeting for that one do you want us to put them on the screen is there enough to the right people here uh it's a very light spread so unless you haven't read it it's not the right time right now can you can you just give us the numbers then uh 115 for matroska right and i think when i worked on recently was 5 55. was that a where where is that actually the 555 is that is that full request yes okay so it's in the right place in the minutes cool are you watching links i can put the links no that's fine he said just just you know i could i could put the links in later if we need them uh i just want you know i just wanted needed to know where to look"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "so if i understood what is happening popping back and forth it looks like dave is uh actually it looks like dave has escaped from the uh from uh whereby also uh did he make it over here no no oh right i am chatting with him he will uh sunday new ffv one alive we are still alive okay i think cool there'll be a dash 18. i think yep cool cool there anything else that we need to talk about today not for me our next meetings in january so that's like eight weeks away i have nothing yet to say i have a side question"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "about no time to wait right yeah i can't answer it but maybe dave can't uh is it happening for the moment yes still so it is still planned have you seen today that ibc is cancelled i saw that i got the email uh so i i don't go to ibc because it is cancelled but our meeting is a lot smaller only 50 participants and we are still wanting to have it okay is it fine for you to come oh do you want me to tell the situation but for now yes but there's a chance there will be a log down over there yeah the last thing they sent out said basically uh everything is still on and good and please please keep checking the uh the travel uh information yeah i will be presenting remotely i don't know how that's gonna work yet but um uh i assume that there's some way to do that so as always reserved and all is there so why not being there so for a multitasker plant but in any case we do the remote part as every year it is just that the remote part will be used more than usual right exactly at least there will be some people on site for sure except if if there is a lock down but for the moment the log down is only from 8 p.m so what we changed is that the social"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "dinner is earlier i don't think i'll don't think it'll matter to me but good to know we didn't plan any uh remote uh participation for the social dinner but maybe we should do that uh if you that we will have to finish at 8 p.m forever it is the plan for the moment that is not clear the the the official end of the lockdown is just one week before no time to wait and in theory it should be open but we we know now that it can it may change every week so right the plan is that uh the week of the time to wait restaurants are opened completely again but only for vaccinated people so we'll see for a moment you you can still plan to come it is still my plan flight and lodging is still booked on my side so yeah but we we will communicate as soon as we we have a different uh decision cool well i'm looking forward to it so and no time to work 6 will be better"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "i hope i hope i hope it's physically possible that it could be better but it could be also worse i don't know i really expected that it is over now but reality is different okay anything else today no no so we did add a bunch of extra item uh to the uh minutes so uh michael and i will try to do our part and uh invite everybody else to uh do theirs and uh we will see everybody that we don't if we don't see you and no time to wait five we will see you in january is that about right yeah otherwise you need two weeks cool good all right make make good choices all right yes all right bye-bye bye guys hello michael yeah do we do we want to chase down dave's problem first or do we want to uh i think you just can't log into the data tracker uh i think he just has to remember his data tracker login okay uh so i guess what i understood yeah we just need to follow up and make sure that he's figured it out i guess okay cool um and i'll i'll put that in i'll put that in the uh i'll put that as a note to the forky group right and if we need to do another test run with dave we can do that cool"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "excellent life is good yeah yeah yeah it's time for it it's time for dinner now that i've been awake since four so it's now 4 p.m i've been waiting for 12 hours so that's that's good i should have dinner now i have to go have dinner yeah bye continue making good choices yeah i will it's my choice to make have dinner yep that's my choice bye"
  }
]
