[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "I feel that there ought to be a way to make the presentation thing be the notes for everybody or be the default I Ari hello how many kids you got now Ari six seven luckily only two but those are definitely keeping me busy oh okay yeah the younger one just turned one year old yesterday and this is technically I miss playing with Thomas the Tank Engine I suppose I could just get it out and play by myself but you know throw it you you can do these different stuff with public if you have a kid along yeah like don't go to a park as a single man oh my God yeah I've been climbing in many places I wouldn't do it otherwise there are parks that say um something to the effect of adults need to be accompanied by a child"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "nice I was thinking if everyone realized we're starting assassin at a bit about time yeah because we were going to be right after core and I thought you know people might need to run to the bathroom and so that's why I added 10 minutes also because I was going to be there um but um anyway that just should mean they show up 10 minutes early or 20 minutes late or they could show up 20 minutes late yeah so where's Nicholas or something yeah I mean I'm chatting on teams because medical is not working um but he's oh trying to get upright he always said that you can you can get going um without him I guess when um yeah they're also missing my Michael coaster foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:23",
    "text": "do you have him on chat somewhere uh teams it's not Cisco teams or Microsoft teams I yeah I have video but not coaster um the medical link wasn't working I wonder because there were the two different invites if the other one that's a broken link yeah apparently if you specify a city when you ask for a virtual interim now it thinks you actually meant an it in person and um my impression from the web interface is that you need to specify you you are encouraged to specify the city so that it will pick a time zone for you um but that's apparently not the case okay so we have Nicholas here nice to have Coster so I bet he had the wrong link Nicholas had the wrong link um I'm actually so Michael Costa is actually in the w3c thing description meeting at the moment so maybe one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "join later and when that meeting as well oh when does it end when does that meeting end hi guys can you hear me hi Yan sorry about the mess here so when did you say when this change description meeting ends sorry could you repeat um being a participant in two meetings at the same time yeah when does your other meeting end also since it takes a long time to turn mics on and off through meet Echo I suggest you use the mute button at the bottom right and just leave your mic request open um unless you're very concerned that your browser might you know leak audio channels yeah that's a good point thanks uh or uh one of these days okay well let's start um and um perhaps we'll get my costers um top of the hour or something um okay so uh welcome to this um virtual interim meeting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "um for the ASDF group um and uh I guess I'll say that we did ask for a time slot for uh ietf 118 in Prague and the end um and um but this meeting is really about today about getting the current document ready for um to be published we went through working group last call um uh let me I don't want to get ahead of myself um so let me just go through the agenda any changes to the agenda all right well I will show the obligatory note well uh just to remind you that there are certain processes of the ietf and this is an official meeting and so the note will applies uh particularly relating to Ill intellectual property um and that this meeting is recorded um and um that we ask you to act professionally and be nice to each other and uh there are a number of BCPS here and if you have any questions you can talk to work in group chairs or to the area directors okay so logistics for meeting so I I will attempt to take some notes into the note uh taking tool um um and um that's about it I would suggest that you just click on the microphone icon in the upper left to request microphone status and then mute yourself the microphone in the lower right which is about 10 times faster for muting on a muting and we're a very small group and I don't think we need to observe um the Mike queuing line for that reason um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "any other questions or concerns I probably turn my video off just to uh avoid eating bandwidth for no reason um anything else anyone wants to add about the meeting okay so let's move on so we did a working group last call uh started in early September I think it was like the fourth um following your slides yeah okay well and it finished last weekish or 10 days ago and we got a couple of reviews and uh I guess I'll pass it on to Karsten it's all in his slides so let me see here stop screen share and share preloaded slides share and then I can give him the control by clicking on that great okay um yeah so um as Michael said we had a regular blast call of the base stf um document uh version or revision Dash 15. um actually and we we actually called this interim to be able to process uh these comments so the dash 15 was submitted on on September 4th before I went on vacation and the working class 12 went until the 20th um and we got one review but a very good one by Crystal heinberg who actually took the position the perspective of a new reader so so he kind of read this forgetting everything he knew about SCF and and tried to find out whether the document is good enough and he found"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "um uh things that that can get better um so we set up a number of issues that are on the GitHub repository if I want to link that and we also had a number of pull requests we still have three issues the blue ones um that that don't have pull requests yet but it should be uh possible to get pull requests out there during the rest of the week so we actually maybe can submit a dash 16 based on this um later this week but let me first before we go into the the timing um let me first go through what what we actually um and did so first of all I just pointed out that the um language wasn't always very consistent so we we had three issues and pull requests that actually addressed that language the first item was to to work even harder on actually using the term object only when we talk about SDF objects so that's an unfortunate Collision um at the time we we started using this terminology we didn't have Json schema org object so this this was still a little bit uh less of a problem um but now we have the problem full on and so pull request 119 tries to make sure that we properly separate the Json objects by calling them maps and the SDF objects and have the language in place that explains all this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "so this was 109 or per request 119 uh 112 for request 121 was about the same thing with the word Thing versus SDF thing except they are different in this case so SDF object is the same thing as an object but an SDF thing is not a thing so we were using the term thing as as a general term for uh the kind of system that this specification is trying to to help you model um so um we hi Michael so we actually split thing and SDF thing and we made sure that we have fewer uh references to internet of things because other people are calling the Internet of Things operation and technology or something else so we we don't want to uh run into these artificial fences uh generated by this terminology um so we are not no longer saying that this is for iot but we are just saying it's it's for things and uh um yeah it's a bit unfortunate that we call the aggregate uh structure SDF thing but that's where we are we probably don't want to change this at this point um and we also remove text that actually um Scouts around the issue of thickness uh so let think of things research group do that and uh we can actually live without an exact definition of what a thing is but the the important thing that I said about the thing is that it's physical it's a physical object and it has an interface to a network that also allows to interact with it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "um so that was that and finally we had this unfortunate term SDF file and we we don't really want to talk about file systems and things like that so we we replaced this by SDF document uh throughout and we we still have one issue open that they have to add this to the terminology section as well so that that was a significant uh set of improvements based on Crystal's comments um we added a little bit of missing detail that that Crystal noticed um so in the definition of an action uh we didn't have the the a pointer to the idiom of returning an action resource uh for for an ongoing action so this is now India without actually binding it to a co-op where it's the the usual thing to do so this is described as a more General um idiom and it also points to the SDF type link uh document as an example of how SDF base base ICF has to be extended to be able to fully describe these Action Resources so right now we can only say that there should be or that the interaction returns and an action resource but we cannot say right now what what that action resource is going to have for uh affordances and and with something like SDF type link we can do that but this is outside the base uh spec at this point um a pretty important uh detail is uh the the way that SDF is planned to invo to evolve"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:04",
    "text": "and there were some some pretty obscure references to SDF versions and and so on and this is now fixed in pull request 125 so first of all we have a name for the state of evolution that that is crystallized in the base RFC we now just call this base SDF and then we talk about extensions that can be made either through the extension points that base SDF already provides in the form of Registries where you can can Define additional functionality or by actually doing another document that may even use the the feature quality from the uh info block and uh finally the the definition of nepalience assumes that you have internalized that definition from what's his name Norman um that the guy who defined authorities in in um uh human computer interaction and this is now a little bit more explicit so so it will be less opaque for people who are not used to this technology and the third thing was there are always a few editorial chores so we we now have the the references to Jason schema org uh sorted out we reference four different documents the base and the validation spec for draft 4 and draft seven each um so this should now also be consistently referenced which of the photo humans we want to reference um number 14 was about the the connotation of state which often brings up the term"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "State machine in the heads of people who think about um a protocols and the state is now defined in the terminology entry that that uses it um we still have two trials that have to be done one is actually there is a pretty lacks use of the term instance and we have to get rid of that um not of the term necessarily but of the lexness in using it and time was not sufficient to do that that's actually a significant surgery that Tom has used about 20 times um in in the document and we actually may have to invent uh a couple of mod terms to to make this uh more precise so this is for the rest of the week to do and there is a minor item that it's probably a good idea to have terminology entries for SDF model and and SDF uh document so these are two to do's and then we have a third to do there were several comments on on my attempts to to fix those references to SDF 1.0 and 1.1 that we maybe should completely clean the the document of all these these references to earlier draft um so we would clean it in the text but we would also clean up the cddl which of course makes it easier to understand so um I think there are some good reasons to do this now um this has all remnants I'm not entirely sure we won't occasionally say something like earlier versions of earlier drafts of this specification did this because it maybe is sometimes necessary to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "understand that we are we have chosen not to do something that we we did earlier but I think that the general uh objective here should be to get rid of SDF 1.0 and 1.1 and I think that's something that we as a working group should discuss is that something we want to do now so is the is the proposal that this thing going forward and being published is SDF 1.0 now no or is it 1.2 there is no version number it's okay SDF so in a bunch of things in um one of the pull requests that I just happened to browse 116 I guess or it's a pull request 125. um it says a bunch of things where it used to say an SDF 1.0 it now says an SDF draft 1.0 it says that repeatedly um and so that's the kind of thing you're talking about that would go away or yes um so we wouldn't have a version number right in the future we would refer to it as just SDF RFC blah blah blah no it's based SDF we introduce the term base SDF okay which is what this document defines and all future uh what might be called versions are actually simply extensions of this and these extensions either use the existing extension points or use the the feature mechanism that is already defined but currently it doesn't have a single different publish a new RFC in five years um a you know this what would we would what would we call this older version then at that point base SDF so if we were to publish a Abyss then it would be just the new SDF and this one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "would still be base SDF yes okay I'm not crazy about that part but um I can live with it yeah I think it's good we get rid of the 1.0 and 1.1 something they were of course very useful during the development of the spec but I can imagine five years down the road looking back it would be more confusing to talk about something helpful well I think it'll be a change makes a lot of sense I think it'll be confusing for reviewers if you know we talk about these previous versions that they don't really see anymore so I think that's very valuable um probably need to have a one sentence somewhere that says you know drafts talked about 1.0 1.1 but we do not use but from this point on it's simply called base SDF and enough said right but yeah the already is some text in there that takes the defined space SDF at the end of the introduction and um yeah we may want to extend that when we delete other stuff but uh I think the the basic idea how to do this is out so the assessment is that there will be no need to refer to I mean base ACF will will help us for many years and then if we do new SDF for the five years that's sufficient there's like no need to do one zero two zero three zero or so yeah so but my model here is sibo which was defined in RFC 7049 and when we did RC 8949 um we didn't see a need to actually version uh so there are some new things in 8949 that that you actually can use um but this is there is no versioning on on the uh actually sibo data structures being interchanged and I think we we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "will have a very similar uh structure here as well yeah there I guess the pros and cons but I I guess getting rid of this old version numbers is a good thing because it will only confuse people because they would assume that this would be SDF while zero and then it's something else so I think this would be okay and technically the new features quality should take away the usual reasons to even make new versions and of course one thing what we may want to be careful if we decide to do a feature that lumps together and a set of other features it will be very tempting to call that a person maybe at that time you want to use a different word for it to avoid that confusing or decide version it's the right word um but we don't need to use this classical versioning schemes no Michael there okay it took a little while to unmute um yeah somewhat jokingly we could we could call that a profile but um I think what we could explain the um the change management philosophy but in a few sentences to help people understand you know why and what's happening but um a feature that you know a system that uses a particular set of features isn't necessarily compatible with the system that uses a different instead of features but um the features being"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "clearly identified and enumerated gives a developer a chance to get whatever level of compatibility they want um so I guess yeah in the sense that maybe they are sort of profile but we're probably not going to name them but it'd be nice to just have it always to be just a list of features but um yeah I think that's I think that's what we could do is probably a few sentences to explain maybe some of the reasoning behind you know why we're doing this this way yeah there are some sentences in the introduction um so if if you look into the current not even sure that the current editors copy is generated but if you look into the introduction you can see some text and if you would like to extend this text please make a comment make an issue good um you got one more slide right yes so what's the the plan as I said the plan is to address the the three two rules that are on this slide set um and and now you can delete the if desired um submitter-16 on that and then Ari pointed out that uh now that we we have a much more readable version of this uh maybe you actually want to ask a few people from the ecosystems uh to put in additional review so this this is a little bit hard to control with respect to the the time it needs but it may be worthwhile to actually spend this additional couple of weeks or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "so um just to to get more of these new reader perspectives in there which turned out to be so useful uh with Crystal so um the previous version of this slide just said submitted 16 and published to isg but the question is whether we want to do one more targeted review round and submit-17 based on that um isn't it primarily kind of as you said like a review Logistics issue right who would who could we get sort of friendly people who could review this with in reasonable time um I don't know who Simon would be interested for instance for instance that's the first name that comes to mind somebody from LMA perhaps and of course we shouldn't feel the dependence there um that like if we don't get in reasonable guide we just go forward um but I think it would be great to get that of course the challenge there is the logistics because many of those don't have you know data tracker accounts and and are not signed up by the mailing lists so we may need to do some relaying and such um but I think that would be that would be a perfect time to request those types final uh reviews on this um specification yeah I agree just get them to post it to the mailing list and the the chairs will prove yeah we'll moderate them could put it on GitHub many people who implement this stuff are used to using GitHub"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "yeah but I think we want to get the review content into the mailing list yeah um yeah um I don't say they can't submit it by GitHub but if they do then we should probably copy and paste it yes how much time do you need or do we think would be obviously if we can I mean if we manage to resolve this open open issues and you do a 16. how much time additional time do we need to get this more reviewers um two weeks or well I would say 10 days to get the next rev 17. no no no after day 16 try to collect more reviews uh within 10 days yeah and then of course we need to process those so this will probably take another week a week for 16. or okay and then so starting next week we can ask these people to review it we're probably going to have to you know cast them I mean we can we can start asking you know already right yeah and then to be ready do you know please make time for it would be super great if you know people have time to do this best to give them the impulse when the 16 is actually available so yeah that tends to work a little bit um so let's get Dash 16 done by Monday or so um at those 10 days um and um wait a minute where does that leave us so Monday is October 2nd 10 days from that is October 12th and uh then we would have a few days"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "uh when is the deadline Hey look where's that not in my calendar okay 23rd um so we probably shouldn't shouldn't do a submission on the 23rd because that that's always hectic and error prone so we should do that a little bit earlier but um so if we say second to 12 is the additional external review uh period we should try to submit it by the 19th and uh yeah I'm going to be offline for the next several of days anyway um so 19th is probably a good date for dash 17. and of course having a shepherd's report ready by this point in time what uh and accelerate the rest the community reviewers could be um anybody right yes anyone who's familiar with the subject matter yeah they probably should be aware that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "this is the the end of a three-year development uh period so we are not going to to completely change the document at this point in time but uh yeah really good point I was I was specifically thinking about tapping some of the original one dm people who are going to be familiar but may not be really caught up with the latest developments um you know like the um specifically maybe some of the books from Google or maybe maybe not exactly those folks but um carefully selected a set of reviewers that you know if we needed more and that that's a good idea uh that I'm um so MK can are you gonna then be able to um are you gonna are you saying you'll take you'll take responsibility for doing that Mike Foster I am yes I am awesome thank you okay anything else to talk about before but at some point we need to talk about all those other documents that are out there some of this talking is actually happening in the 1dm uh call so for instance on next Monday we will have a 1dm call hopefully discussing the Bluetooth integration and the things that come"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "from there but uh yeah we we need to think about what we want to do with all those other documents we can do that in Prague also could try to formulate an opinion uh well I I'd like to have some questions uh like some ideas about what we might do they could be bad ideas or good ideas or just ideas um and um um and then you know that would let people think about what the possibilities are before Prague yeah what did you like to do an interim week we could um I think that's frowned on to do it in the week before ITF is that what you're thinking about well I was thinking in the week of the internet of deadline so later that internet drafted we probably can do that so you're thinking about any proofs October 25th at the same time works for me but what about this I think scripture meetings sorry what about the what the the thing description meetings that kept Jan and Michael okay well then so later yeah that's why I'm asking Michael oh we expect to change the time um but we I we haven't done that yet so it's probably best to avoid for October"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "even but yeah later that the actual uh 9 9 A.M Pacific would be perfect but that might be a little you know that should be okay what time did you just say 1800 Pacific no nine Pacific 9 A.M Pacific okay all right the 1800 Central Europe okay 25th is still the usual distance between Europe and the US the next week is a week of contribution okay so um that's two weeks before our ITF okay well if if we can you can schedule it then I'm happy to do that I guess core has done that so I'll schedule one for the 12 30. 12 30. uh 12. sorry for me it's 12 9 A.M we just said 9 A.M yeah so 1600 world time yeah sounds good yes we discussed the plantless rights and then kind of the future plans so to speak yeah that's the idea is I think to come up to to have some proposals for each of the documents that there and so the idea is that we would come into the ITF meeting with um some actual proposals for what would be in the charter and what would out not be in the charter or some actual you know conflict of what is going on right yep that's cool"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "okay great so that was the questions you were referring to Michael earlier uh me yes okay perfect thanks that's what I was wondering I mean we could do a very quick brain dump right now to see if you're going to have a rough idea at least within this group because to me kind of the obvious ones or are the links and relations that are already somewhat refined but then what we're missing doubling completely on is on the instances and that seems to be like the most common topic that I see on my radar um and that's a that's of course a whole bigger question how you design the features not just the signal of quality potentially oh is this the link that I just posted to the notes is that the whole picture or are we missing some additional documents we should be looking at um is that the list of documents that's everything that has ASDF and the my name uh yes protocol bindings too very good point or mapping files yeah so there we haven't determined whether this is two different things or the same thing that's right but even influences have a quality of sort of being either either another refinement on SDF as a language extension or or as a binding to some other uh kind of you know Json or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "something like that and I've experimented with both and I think there's some some interesting choices to make about instances but part of instances is related a lot to bindings and mappings mapping compact link document relations so I think that I think the ASDF um document list has all those documents already on it yeah I'm not sure that this is possible but a good objective might appear to actually uh re-spin these four documents with a view of uh how they could become uh work items of of a recharted working group you know for folks with more experience with these three Charters and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "so on uh would those you know this amount of work be you know too little too much not appropriate I mean how compared to other researchers you know it's obviously some work to be done but it's not an infinite amount not a huge amount um or can we do it with the current Charter with some creative reading of it I I would say that it doesn't really matter um um that um it's never I mean maybe it all fits in the current Charter but that's something we would have to to look at um but um I think it's at the point where where having done this document the next question would be that our ad would ask us okay you're done you're shutting down so regardless of whether um it fits in the current Charter or not we have to make a decision that we're continuing okay and that's a conscious decision and our 80 has to agree with us that we're continuing um and if it requires some minor Charter retardering text then that's probably not a big deal although it requires an approval process so it takes an extra month but um wow I think it's the conversation about what are we doing if that matters yep I mean that's fine and I don't think it matters I mean we might recharger to Pro work on one uh one other document only and that's okay or all of them or right so right now the charter is pretty focused on on developing SDF into a standards Flex specification so I'm pretty sure that we will have to do a recharging uh process but of course we don't have to to stand still why that happens if we have an agreement of what you want to do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "oh good okay then we'll talk yeah maybe one more class of documents here um I guess guess the uh for ecosystems that want to register ecosystem uh quality namespaces uh and we should do those as rfcs I guess those that should be and scope so for example I'm thinking I'm ome object and resource IDs so Oma could register the Oma namespace for that I guess they could also do it in an OMS pack but if it would make sense to us as an RFC and that probably should be in the in the scope I heard you say quality namespaces but you must have met some other words this document required the term in the document is quality name prefixes so we would have an ome colon object ID or something like that so we already have a registry for those and and the registry is is what's the Ina considerations export review okay so they don't need a document they just need to ask nicely yeah there are some additional instructions to the experts so so I'm not sure I should read those out loud right now but the the intention is that an organization that that actually registers of prefix also has a point where they will collect uh the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "quality names that they actually use so with the objectives of stability and transparency I don't remember that part but anyway I'll guess I'll find when I read it from top to bottom um okay that's cool so Ari what you're saying is that those guys those other entities probably um um those other entities could probably start as what you're saying thinking about what they want to do yeah I'm not wondering what will be the effective way of doing it I guess maybe they made the most likely outcome might actually be that they you know whatever organization is the old specifications but having a way oh way to have public reference for those qualities I mean it's very useful and um perhaps an organization that doesn't that puts all of their domains behind a paywall for them by doing an RFC X it might be better option and um would be sad if our Charter prevents that um I guess that's kind of my thinking here well that would normally be an independent submission so if Oma wants to have full change control over those which I think is what they would want to do um then uh yeah they would submit this as an RFC if uh things go well but they may want to use the IC and not this working group I mean we sure would like to discuss it in this working group but in the end Oma would need to have Change Control indeed yeah that would work thanks yeah and with Omega it's not an issue because OMS specs are actually public in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "the end um so but yeah that's a good good point with the independent stream that could be used if needed so it doesn't need to be a ASDF document foreign best practice here's how to use these stock documents and I guess would those would naturally fall within the new Charter because there is a lot of a lot of extra knowledge that is not in the way specification because it really depends on how the specific ecosystems are using this base specification um it might be used for the document eventually and maybe do an informational RFC yeah the isg is pretty wary of of informational or should I say weary uh of information that I've seen so they actually send out an ISD statement a couple of weeks ago that they really don't want to do uh too many information overseas um so a document that actually looks at how this is used in practice also could go into the research group that's a good point thanks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:06",
    "text": "other items of business I might I'm not sure if I caught that last thing just saying that you know I I think we have them we have an idea out there set up documents do we still need another virtual interim then I guess the how to spin those documents to that so I I think that we need to talk about those documents at 118 as part of the recharging process that doesn't mean we'd have to go deep into them but we need to know how they fit into the rest of the process that needn't occupy you know the whole hour um shouldn't 20 minutes um so you know two or three slides at most on each um but um I I think we also need to make sure that we are figuring out uh what other people we probably need to have a hand minute presentation on SDF base SDF or is it SDF based I don't know anymore base SDF we probably need to have a 10 minute presentation on that but maybe we don't need to do that at the beginning of the meeting maybe we can do that you know near the end of the meeting um so that we can get the real business of the chartering out over but I mean I don't know it depends on we expect people to read the document before they get there um a question of how many other interested new parties do we get given that we also should probably make sure the agenda is posted well in advance"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "um so people know what's going on um and then you know what let me ask the other question um maybe I there's some conflicts that um that we should um I don't know a view list of time slot requests apparently I can't oh it's doing it's working uh Karsten so I need to stop your slides yep uh change that closed deck window um okay so I'm well this is what I tell me if there's some other conflicts here that I've missed um we asked not to be on Friday is there anything else you can think of that it's really critical or you think that will overlap I don't know iot Ops Maybe I don't know if I can add that to this no I can't say I have to ask to amend that's fine so anything other than that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:10",
    "text": "foreign any other participant conflicts I was going to mention Jason Parsons at age because these are getting in the way but I think both of them are meeting are not meeting okay well I'll just have anything else all right well I'm going to declare this meeting close then great very good thank you for having us ual hour here guys thank you okay I'll set up the the the 25th um later this afternoon thank you okay have a good evening guys bye-bye thank you foreign"
  }
]
