[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:10",
    "text": "who is song oh hey we have another no no help look do that now Peter also supposed to be a person right so he can jump over this sure alright so let\u0027s start I think it\u0027s past the times of charting so this is IPSec am a working group I\u0027m Tara giving inland and David Wolter so I now take our chair is going to be changing David is going to be taking to be job what should right okay here\u0027s the note well I think everybody has noted dish already so so we have a blue seat somewhere we have only one blue suit going around so if you if it\u0027s not if it\u0027s a soft summer wave it up and and same people can actually it\u0027s coming to forint the other side now we have a one note taker also already anybody would be willing to do the other if you\u0027re doing either part so you can actually just fill in stuff and actually it\u0027s a very good thing to go there yourself after you have asked questions you can code fix that you know what sore spot you actually asked and who you are that\u0027s quite often very hard and so when you are going to Mike please say your name so a note-taker so dull and poor promise to be a chopper scribe so he can chop the cue by adding some questions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:12",
    "text": "[Music] yeah so any of anybody else to be a second note-taker Dan now all right I think we can punish each one and if anybody complains that this room is cold it\u0027s not that was a little bit more colder than this but we had the blankets AMS blankets help start all right so here\u0027s an agenda so these we are doing the passion now and then the clock is tickin zone so any comments on this attend anybody wants to change anything I guess not so there we go first have a draft at the center we have some work items and some other presentations some of the other presentations actually are something that might be the work in the items also but they just put a bit arbiter at the split there so the first one is the working group status report so we have already published that one of the RFC is this split TNS was published as an RFC that actually happened before the previous meeting I think butter and we have one document implicit IV that is in RFC editor Q now we have requested publication for quantum restaurant hikers a to stuff I don\u0027t know when it\u0027s going to be in tell us what or when it\u0027s going to be forward but we have finished working group last roll call a very long one for ipv4 ipv6 codes and I think it should be ready for publication we are getting ready for the little Gator we need to have a separate write up and then then we can post that forward we have two documents at a t\u0027car Oh actually one documented is quite ready I think they I create an intermediate it should be quite ready for working coop last call and so on for the labels IPSec I heard there has been some complications going back and forth and an old or and back again I have a different design critters I think it\u0027s mostly because we don\u0027t know what\u0027s a what kind of a use is for it is going to be so it\u0027s very hard to design a protocol when you don\u0027t know how to do it and then we have a three new documents that were stood up to test work across so we have an this IP traffic flow security and then we have a hybrid us K and then GI question to those are still you know I think there should be quite ready for us most of them actually could work in coop last go and let me have a here\u0027s our work items so we have hybrid USDA interrupt stuff then we have IP traffic folk security and then we have a level IV that what those IPSec those are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:13",
    "text": "the items and then we have other presentations in the end so I think that\u0027s all we have for that so we start with the first presentation with Valerie with interrupts tough so onion weaker Erickson the last draft it is mentioned not posted yet it is so so previous slide there is my draft saying it not posted yet and it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s posted okay okay good good hello a very small information message for the intra prevent that we had on November the 7th twisting hybrid quantum safe key exchange it was organized but sick net and there were three active participants with running code it was first it strands one then with modem and with plus and we tested well all implementations have implemented Ike intermediate draft and one implementation fully supported quiz key the latest version and two implementations put it partially but instead support real post quantum key exchange methods so question no Stefan no okay so the results we achieved interoperability with hybrid exchange but using only classical method between others plus since transform and Kojima dense turns one also performed some post quantum key exchange method but say wasn\u0027t just kicks change was successful they say was an established because of the some parks and I codes company accommodation well and we also had some discussion about all this stuff and so the conclusion well first conclusion is that or it works so I agreed exchange works and implementers Bradley need stable codepoints we spent quite a lot of time compiling our code because we had to set of temporary code the poet\u0027s are compatible of course so I feel that at least for I can\u0027t immediate and I think that the draft is old enough so I\u0027ve just a few minutes ago I requested an early call upon assignment so we are waiting for Tara as our iron expert actually I haven\u0027t received a request yet from Vienna it was done to me "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:16",
    "text": "go check your email well and there was some discussion too and if you winders expressed this is I complement hybrid exchange once the specification is stable enough so I sense that many people want RFC and once they FC particularly so is it all any questions hi Sean Turner D plan to submit this implementation report to the implementation report repository that the isg maintains would button so there\u0027s an ihe there\u0027s an int there\u0027s an implementation report you used to use it back in the day to progress things from like ps2 internet standard I don\u0027t know you need to do that anymore but it\u0027s a place where you wrote down all the things you tested the names of the implementations you kind of put it up there that\u0027s another place to kind of like advertise the fact that you did get an operability so it\u0027s maybe something to consider okay all right Jonathan hey moe did you test child Ricky no because he was implemented only in one implementation so we we doesn\u0027t have enough participants to test against on the initial I guess a set up with multiple key exchanges with hybrid key exchanged now Ricky it is their plan well we have a discussion some discussion with strands one because transform well we all this plus has implemented the draft completely but other one does have some well strands one mostly implemented to the quite well not completely but quite a lot and I sense some and they have some concerns about how routine is specified in the specification so we had some discussion is a sense that they probably will sink a little bit and if we get rid of nonsense and they use a dedicated exchange type for for follow-up regime they they will probably it is ok with them so I will check with my co-authors because well we have some discussion with cause before I achieve meeting but we decided to postpone any change because the draft was in the adoption state and we didn\u0027t want to compute to confuse people who reads draft with some latest changes or a new version you know that once the draft is adopted I sends that well I think that there\u0027s no big objection and there is a consensus month calls is that a new dedicated exchange type with pages in your using information exchange so it will definitely be done and I think I will "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:16",
    "text": "check again with Scotland with some cartographer so whether we could get rid of all additional exchanges I chose it with simplify that\u0027s responses from initial exchange well after Zeta since its transform agrees it it\u0027s it\u0027s a way to go if anyway well I think the draft must be discussed on saliste so I solicit any review in discussion because it was not very many comments on the draft and unfortunately so most and most discussion among the causes so just if you have some opinion please bring to the list right into that point it would be useful to post the feedback that you\u0027re just talking about to the okay okay all right so then we call the next presentation which for that was the IP traffic flow so the greatest did I miss this in the last presentation could did the early allocation of code points was that raised okay sorry all right so not to me this is an update we did the adoption call and recently for this draft and we also during that same time we also had some suggested new charter text because we need to do that to officially adopt the work so that the text seemed to be okay with everybody and the adoption call was issued to sort of reduce the amount of process time overhead right so just run it in parallel and make them contingent that\u0027s what the star is about anyway the the we got we had good support and yeah so past the adoption call we did get some comments so that\u0027s what this presentation is going to be is covering those comments so one set of comments we got was it was a good starting point would like to see more analysis on fragmentation that\u0027s act we\u0027re actively doing that right now so hoping to have something before the next IETF you know some analysis on that I\u0027ve coded this with it you know even with an option to turn fragmentation on and off you know in configuration so you know there\u0027s real you know we plan to do this analysis there\u0027s also some static analysis we can do just based on you know what kind of line utilization based on I mix you know if we\u0027re having to pad out and rather than split across "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:18",
    "text": "payloads has the effect of congestion control on the tunnel with CC traffic I talked to David black and I also went to a side meeting this time where this the idea of whether there is any sort of feedback loops or oscillations when you have congestion controlled traffic ie TCP inside a congestion control the tunnel I believe we\u0027re okay David you know he\u0027s very cautious and he wants you know us to think about it I think we\u0027re okay because the whole point of this tunnel is to decouple the offered load from the tunnel right like that that\u0027s where the leakage goes is if your traffic rates change based on the offered load anyway we we need to at least show that we thought about it there is a common case of this right which is open VPN or something right where you\u0027re running a tunnel and TCP where your tunnel is TCP and the traffic inside is TCP that case is not as decoupled as ours so it\u0027s not deadly but I don\u0027t know how good the Open VPN cases so whatever we don\u0027t like Open VPN here also be aware of how this lines with quick I when I first read this I thought it was talking about packet alignments and colleague of mine Lou Berger mentioned no that\u0027s probably not what they meant they probably meant pay more you know just pay attention to what\u0027s going on and quick to make sure that III don\u0027t know so I would like some clarification on what what that was particularly about moving forward okay so the next comment was a good starting point and that it was IP number allocation was scary this was from Paul but there was a misunderstanding um I thought we were actually trying to replace ESP so we were trying to allocate a whole new IP payload that isn\u0027t the case it\u0027s just the the scope of the ESP payload type is the IP number right so we\u0027re just we\u0027re just we need a new number for that to say that the inner payload is not ipv4 it\u0027s not I P v6 it\u0027s this TFS payload right but even given that right I there\u0027s not you know it is a small set of numbers but we think this is a manageable issue because we you know we reserved the first bits of the of our header as as reserved and if if SEC you know if we needed to if IB SEC needed to to reuse the the format we could reuse the number and by just taking another bit from the first byte of the matter the final comment was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:19",
    "text": "that this says you know this is good and that it has potential for addressing the path MTU issues with traditional IPSec tunnels that is in fact the case if you use the the TFS header you know you don\u0027t actually have and we\u0027re we\u0027ve written the draft in a way such that you don\u0027t actually have to send things at a constant rate you don\u0027t you could send them on demand if you want right there\u0027s nothing that requires the constant rate send so so basically if you were just to send these TFS payloads on demand you don\u0027t get much security and traffic analysis but you do get the ability to you know the MTU doesn\u0027t matter so the MTU is whatever you set to your tunnel to be and the payloads can be larger than that because they can fragment across so what do what do we have what are we updated we\u0027ve up where are what are we looking to update we\u0027re looking at interpet inter packet alignment you know when you have aggregated packets inside a payload I coding this personally you know looking at some white box code and stuff there\u0027s a lot of assumptions about header alignment you know because typically device drivers will move the into bytes so that the IP header is you know 32 bit aligned right and then based on that fact a lot of code is written so that when it looks up a length that it\u0027s just grabbing it as you and 16 which of course is going to cause an exception on the processor if that\u0027s odd byte aligned so you know I don\u0027t know if we should be changing wire formats to compensate for you know questionable code practices but you know it\u0027s worth thinking about Asics don\u0027t care about this right I mean Asics they don\u0027t care so it you know so that\u0027s something that it\u0027s an open issue to think about and yeah and then the only other thing is that we we do we are planning to open sources we want to get the full implementation written including the congestion control and an IQ moment ation and then as soon as that\u0027s done which you know should be in 2020 we\u0027re hoping early 2020 will push this out and we\u0027re totally open to collaborating and doing interoperability testing the folks modernist Muslim Felice Blas first question well you seem to leave out transport more to tell is there any reason so you\u0027re supporting eternal mod essays and not a transfer mode are you saying we only do tunnel yes yes because because the transport mode is reusing the the the offered load "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:22",
    "text": "header right but we need to actually be encapsulating that so that we can pad it out and and shrink it and grow it and you know so it\u0027s always fixed constant size well my question is don\u0027t you see a use case for traffic flow confidentiality for transport mode so it seems that it is not important more to support so we have a sort of this sort of analogy to like security modes where we have if you think about them like a knob right like of how secure things are right transport mode is like the least secure right and then because you\u0027re giving away the source and destination then you like turn the knob to like one right and that\u0027s tunnel mode we\u0027re now at least you\u0027re hiding the source and destination and then then you start talking about traffic analysis right so then you turn the mode to to so it was seen it\u0027s not see you\u0027re already giving away so much information by using transport mode yeah you know why even worry about like an analysis based on you know you don\u0027t need to analyze traffic so I I\u0027m not so sure but probably well my second question are you you want to allocate and you IP protocol number does to use well just to use to distinguish IP TFS SP from the usual TSP so is it used only on SP trailer as an expert oh cool yeah exactly it will it will an official at people to call number so you need it\u0027s quite so yeah right that\u0027s why we called it out it\u0027s not it\u0027s not impact you know it\u0027s it\u0027s not like we can just walk - Ayanna and say give us a number and you know it\u0027s first-come first-serve you know the spaces is small but we have a justification it\u0027s a it\u0027s a major application but do you really need it because from your draft your SPSA is a dedicated PDF as you can\u0027t mix normal tuna let\u0027s say and ipfs is BSA so it\u0027s probably you don\u0027t need an IP protocol nom but just to know that this is BSA it\u0027s um maybe that first it related yeah correct it\u0027s the scope I mean that\u0027s how the next header field is defined in ESP you know it\u0027s probably honestly easier to get an IP number than it would be to go back and create a new registry for es problem I don\u0027t know it\u0027s a question because IP number is you know if we can look at this going forward I don\u0027t think it\u0027ll be that hard actually there are a lot of IP numbers available we\u0027re not looking for a slew of them and we can reuse the one we got okay thank you yeah in fact to do a nut ESP registry going forward we could even be saying oh we can reuse this number you\u0027re gonna give us right benkei duck I guess I have two points now so I mean I think an IP number is like kind of a big deal we do inside the isg say hey guys we got this draft that wants to allocate a ipv4 number and then like it\u0027s kind of something that that could be a big deal "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:24",
    "text": "in terms of you know people think it\u0027s yeah yeah we are aware it\u0027s not a small out yeah we think we can just write people heads-up and then the other one was relating to the alignment question which I have to apologize for having not worth the draft but I think the sort of general sense I get from the the general around the ITF as a whole is that like if we have to be adding new protocol machinery to our stuff to like add a variable length padding just so we can alignment like there\u0027s not a whole lot of desire to be able to do that but if it\u0027s just a matter of well do we have an octave of padding in here so that all of the fields have the same alignment and and it\u0027s not like I have one field that\u0027s alignment once it even and another field let\u0027s line the odd and like screw you implementers like if we can just make up something very simple yeah I think it would just literally just replicate what\u0027s already there which is 32 bit alignment on the headers I\u0027m yeah yeah that\u0027s the only thing I think we should think about it like that that\u0027s a reasonable thing to consider but you we don\u0027t have to do it if we need extra space thanks doc you said for the protocol number as we need it only into the ESP trailer we can actually there\u0027s a couple of ways to do without it one of the things is that we can I think there is currently there\u0027s protocol number zero which is used for all kind of weird purposes meaning no prophet are gonna be actually using it Ike we say that there is no protocol number it\u0027s any and and if you negotiate you know protocol operator number is zero it means that there is no practical number it\u0027s any practical it\u0027s okay and I think ipv6 uses its first up for some similar uses where it\u0027s actually never in the real you know protocol field but it\u0027s used for internal purposes so we could have just say okay we don\u0027t have any real protocol number there because there are these multiple pockets inside and then you can have the real protocol number is because you have your header there it\u0027s half the length of the payload and you have to have you know it\u0027s it\u0027s pocket inside has to have a you know real protocol number anyway so you could have you know just you know you don\u0027t need to have anything in the trailer the other option is to use wrapped ESP which is we haven\u0027t program embroidery for ESP for the property PVCs ESP with four octet extra header in the ESP before the payload which tells at least the pocket encrypted how long the 10 trailer is how long the header is and so on and there\u0027s a couple of research-based which we could have just used one bits and say oh this is this is pocket that has multiple pockets inside so the format is going to be different and of course the third option is to say that okay because we negotiate we always negotiate these use of these in Ike we can always say that these for this essay the traffic is always going to be this kind of you know multiplex traffic\u0027s which means that we have we actually just can you know say that okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:24",
    "text": "that protocol number if the first final protocol number is ignored because it doesn\u0027t have any meaning you know we have to anyway code true to the protocol number is usually mean poor for checking the police and so on and here we don\u0027t we actually have to do policy checking for his payload they are not caring about the applier stuff okay thank you yeah I mean we definitely you don\u0027t need to go around once before we ask for it but yeah Michael I just want to clarify in question taro so if we used wrapped ESP that would be the protocol number of the outer thing or the next header within the ESP if he put that when I would put that as an outer so the real IP header there would have entrapped ESP and if we have actually you know the extra you know header of the wrapped yet V and if there\u0027s four bytes of header in there so that would actually have a bit saying that we got actually shared one more bit there saying that oh there\u0027s three bits used on a file four bits well or actually I think for you stand for left just would one reserved bit to say that though this is to this you know traffic flow controversy fall right so correct me if I\u0027m wrong and rusty but when we do ESP over UDP the outer IP header says UDP and we know it\u0027s ESP only because we negotiated the port number in Ike so we wouldn\u0027t actually be able to put wrapped ESP there we don\u0027t so I\u0027d like to make a suggestion so rep ESB RFC actually has this it actually defines how to do that\u0027s in UDP etiquette so see what it does it actually used one of the magic spi numbers so instead of having all zeros like you have like traffic or we have a realized VI number it has I think SP number 2 means that oh it\u0027s a wrapper DSP and the next four bytes is the header so so it actually ordered that\u0027s actually one of the things I was think about drop ESP is that because notary supports you know UDP encapsulation and so on because it it\u0027s working with that of course you know I don\u0027t know if anybody actually has implement it for a PSP so that might be a paragraph you know reason not to use it because so I mentioned earlier coming up that you know that we so first of all IPSec is a pretty big deal right so we shouldn\u0027t necessarily be so scared about asking for a single IP number and and also we do have the ability to once this you know once we get the Charter text in it and we and we have an official working group document we are allowed to ask for early allocation so we can float a trial "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:26",
    "text": "balloon here right I mean we\u0027re able to go at once it\u0027s a working of document and ask I Ana for early allocation and part of that early allocation can be an IP number so that that can you know that we need to we need to move on yet so I don\u0027t say that I\u0027m supportive of what you just said and I\u0027m also really supportive of making good use of the wrapped ESP allocation which I don\u0027t think is which I think has gone to waste so the the consensus I\u0027m hearing in the room is that we should at least investigate some options before we we make the allocation request zero maybe it would be useful if you could send some examples to the list being a chair that\u0027s stepping down I can assign work and then that doesn\u0027t come but it would be it would actually I think be useful for that okay thank you thank you [Music] the next person dresser is labeled to IPSec which is also some kind of back and forth stuff okay next night Stone Age okay so just a quick reminder one slide and this is an example a speedy entry that shows the security label this is the one we want to put in the traffic selectors for a system and the question is how to convey this information between two ike points to I can points so this was the very original proposal from Sahana me we decided to just use this actually the second proposal already no okay sorry so no this is the first proposal it\u0027s a it\u0027s a TS type it\u0027s a traffic sector type where we just put in the security label and the length and it was very simple and was a new traffic selector in addition to the existing ones and then problems came up because people said well this really changes the core ahrefs you know how we select these these traffic selector types so then Tero came up with a brilliant idea like oh let\u0027s just merge them into new traffic selector so instead of adding one new one we\u0027ll add one new one 5pv 401 u1 556 and if there\u0027s ever a new type of traffic slack to add one more type so you would basically copy all the traffic\u0027s like the types we have but add ones with and without the security level and so some people like it some people didn\u0027t and that change over time as well so the question really is like like how can we best move this forward because like like everybody has now changed their opinion except I think Valerie who\u0027s always hated all the options so how does this new Koshien really happen and do we really need a traffic selector so one of the issues is also with the narrowing you can do if someone requests something and puts in a traffic "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:27",
    "text": "selector off a security label and then the other end eater doesn\u0027t support it or the other and doesn\u0027t want to use it they\u0027ll return a narrow down proposal without the traffic selector but they have installed the SI and now the other end might have say oh I actually really didn\u0027t like this so the initiator then goes like I don\u0027t like this narrowed set so now I have to send it delete and then try without the label and maybe see if they like that or like so so it really complicates how this negotiation is done and then we got thinking well we could we could send and notify to at least say hey we\u0027d like to use this this security label and then of course next question quickly became well if we\u0027re sending a notify we might as well put the label in and notify not use a traffic select and avoid all these issues because we also did a quick check on on the code bases that we could look at do people actually properly narrow down traffic slack too so if you see an unknown on do you actually just drop it from the from the set and continue to negotiate the SI without that traffic\u0027s like the type and the answer is I haven\u0027t seen a single implementation a does that\u0027s the old the old returned in error like I didn\u0027t notice error so the question remains how to do it is so I am now back to thinking that notifies would actually be easier and better than traffic selector types so the question is what do other people think because it\u0027s hard to see what people like because it has been changing a quite a lot well it is mostly for this plus I think that well a second object second bullet is definitely not an option because it\u0027s a well traffic selectors individual selectors in traffic selectors interpret it as a logical or so that if you knew these types it will it will express only security label it you cannot combine this right right so either you know don\u0027t or a new witch before plus the Clara v6 plastic label and I think that the third option is most most I don\u0027t know right from formal point of view from not from practical but from theoretical point of view but from practical point of view I agree that it leads to explosion of traffic selector you just you just copy all the current current selectors that are too tight there before hundred six and add them security label and if you later want to add some something else we need to multiply it but so so probably in unity fiber load is some kind of compromise in this situation I think it\u0027s probably way to go hojoon for Nokia I think the I don\u0027t like the third one because 95 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:28",
    "text": "implies that you find this security label to a particular tunnel but my views case to bind a circle able to actually tried so more grander than that tunnel sir sorry I didn\u0027t fully hear you to tie the label to securely so if you have this basically you have a notify right notify essentially it means that\u0027s you tie this label to a tunnel not I try to say it\u0027s so do you know you can actually if you think of the use transport and use compress notifies they also are specific for a childhood say not for an ICO say so this notify would also be specific for the child I say okay so when you do a like Cree try to say you couldn\u0027t go included this notify correct yeah if you do create child say you would also send to notify okay so works and got for me I think this really should bind to a try to say correct yeah they need a must they must bind to a child a say Michael Richardson so I I I\u0027m gonna say that I don\u0027t haven\u0027t formed an opinion as to which is the the best choice here but my opinion would be formed by considering two things and I have a question as a result which is how would a an implementation which doesn\u0027t implement labeling respond to these three things and that leads to my question which is is it useful for accept in a transition upgrade period is it useful or do you expect that an endpoint having desiring security labels will negotiate with endpoints that don\u0027t have them and don\u0027t implement them and expect to just create an essay that doesn\u0027t have labels and just proceed along as if with that so the answer that I don\u0027t put it for a specific further security labels that I need to distort effort this will not be the case so if they they did not get a confirmation of the notify in the reply they would like consider this a failure a failure and they wouldn\u0027t set up any tunnel correct right so then I would say that it really doesn\u0027t matter that much because the end in the end requesting the label is going to have to deal with whatever a failure comes back as opposed to you know saying oh you picked the TS without the label are all to go that way then if you like okay and and and all I can see the situation where you might you know upgrade things incrementally and you want to turn on the policy and as soon as it\u0027s all there everyone\u0027s happy I don\u0027t know if that if your use case really supports that scenario I think you turn it on the whole network once the network\u0027s ready you you go to label and until then the network\u0027s not labeled right right yeah that\u0027s what I think is the case it\u0027s not like you know other I think other things where you want to go oh let\u0027s go for go to aes-256 next week "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:29",
    "text": "but you know 128 will be good enough for the next week right it\u0027s okay right we still want transmit so that\u0027s my take on it is is what will be easier for you to determine if the other end doesn\u0027t doesn\u0027t agree and pick that right but but do take into code that so I have a very specific use of the security label other people might have other users for the security label where where they might decide that something incremental is valid for its period of time so so it\u0027s not a use case we should discard just because I don\u0027t need it I I think you should probably unless those people are quite loud I think you should just go ahead with what suits you their communion I think actually if we actually use the traffic selector you traffic sector type that allows both of these because one of the things you can if you only allow gonna be secondary lab both cases very okay if you have a checker if you propose something that normal ipv4 and I believe for PostSecret label that gives an option for the other and to speak which one of Anna can you allowing that for your policy if you only propose ipv4 plus sec ylabel that means that you only allow that in your policy and eat that will actually be better proposed it the other one will immediately feel that if he doesn\u0027t support actually say clay plus because he doesn\u0027t have any traffic lights selector it could be it would say traction traffic second unavailable or unacceptable exotic so so that way actually gives you immediate error instead of you getting back essay that you have to immediately delete because it didn\u0027t have to notify so that\u0027s also I write right this guy right like this kind of explicit you know cases where you actually get them you can propose either with the traffic selector it select with sick libel or without or both and you you know the other one can decide what you propose to tell us what you want and what the other one responses tell us what he wants and there is you know either get an error or you get an essay that you\u0027re gonna use notifies the problem is a feed we don\u0027t get that C so you\u0027re advertising for the third options though yeah the one that we saw I believe four plus sec ylabel and I don\u0027t think we are going to be adding that many of those new things intersect later the other things we had earlier discussion was to how to secular political to be used how is it strain is it number or is it software that can be can it be narrowed down and that\u0027s something that we need to decide and that\u0027s actually one of the things also that affect these things because I mean it affects how the code it\u0027s encoded but although the narrowing can be like you can have a whole complicated Turing machine inside your security level if you really want that like that\u0027s all look for everybody else to define like you just send it over the network so that that\u0027s why actually I think it might be what the current draft I think says is that the security label is just one label there\u0027s no range there and you can narrow it you have to accept it completely right but that doesn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:29",
    "text": "mean that you cannot accept everything that starts with letter a yeah but do you have returned whatever that means something else and whatever it means is outside of the AI complementation yeah yeah yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s possible yes but you still return actually the whole thing right your god franca it says it\u0027s the same thing with the you know like we have a protocol field you have to accept if the protocol field is anything else and zero you have the accept X that exact protocol number you can\u0027t do anything else yeah I\u0027m gonna have to cut the line you\u0027re good benkei doc you have notes on jabber that the notify payload could be better because nobody has ever really defined new traffic selector types and we know that implementations can handle unknown notification types but they might choke on an unknown traffic electric-types right that\u0027s true I\u0027m just wondering word this label is gonna be are you gonna put it into the yesterday can you speak into the mic are you worried yeah I\u0027m not speaking in the mic no no then they asked you for your name oh my name Daniel me go Ericsson so I\u0027m wondering how this level is going to be used is it expected to be placed into the SAS ad is actually the output of the Linux access forum policy database okay so it\u0027s actually it\u0027s a real traffic cycle so if you sent a packet with these sources nation\u0027s address but it\u0027s not labeled with that label it will not match mmm okay thanks so it sounds like the third option is probably the one to look at are there any concerns well that\u0027s not what I got from this discussion I got from the discussion that in theory the third option is nicest but in practice the first option is nicest so if we go so if we go with the first option is there anyone that has any concern with that approach yeah I think that it must be discussed on the least because I think there are not many people here to decide right now they\u0027re given it I think the bad idea about the bad thing about the notifies is that you get an essay created even if you don\u0027t want it and you have to delete it and there\u0027s all kind of race conditions because oh oh I have an essay up I have a traffic cone oh no no no I can\u0027t use that I said even if it\u0027s created I need to delete it immediately but I can delete it before I get response back and you have to block manually block you know things so that doesn\u0027t leak out in the essay that it\u0027s not allowing it and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:29",
    "text": "another thing in all of the cases you need to have a new cone in your traffic selector you know code if you are going to be implementing it I mean everybody who\u0027s going to be plus label odd cycles are going to be modifying their you know code anyway so adding the code for traffic selector support theories to be smart is something that you should be doing anyway and you shouldn\u0027t be proposing these to anybody who is it not really most of the case you don\u0027t propose this to anybody who doesn\u0027t agree or earlier in your you usually put in their policy to say oh for this I proposed these labels so I\u0027m not hearing that there\u0027s enough consensus around an option so maybe we need to take this to the list and options 1 \u0026 3 a little bit more could you drive some discussion on the list for that sure I can try but but we\u0027ve been going around in circles for a bit so I didn\u0027t know how how to steer this to an end yeah so I mean my suggestion I thought I kind of agree with what Paul said was like three it\u0027s like what you would do if you were gonna like do it super correct but in the reality of the world the practicality I should want is to do it and I agree that we have to take it to the list but like maybe we could do a home on that and then confirm it on the list and the home you\u0027re asking for is well option 1 okay so um so if you I don\u0027t care what the answer is I just want to help you get to done things that the option one is also that we don\u0027t have that in any of the crafts so I would actually propose that we postpone that harm until it\u0027s actually written somewhere where what what about notify is good to be looking at how do behave when you receive or send it yeah may I may I suggest to all that\u0027s a good idea may I suggest that you simply ask for a hum of objection objectors right if you don\u0027t understand it you probably shouldn\u0027t object sorry alright how about this way so it do you understand if you understand what we\u0027re asking for an option one please hum that\u0027s pretty weak if you have any concerns with option one please hum definitely weaker so it sounds like maybe what we should do is write up an example of what option one would look like and then we can consider that Thanks I think you\u0027re up next [Music] no it\u0027s vacant so so the next one is traffic separate logs and hello everyone my name is weapon from Huawei today I\u0027m going to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:31",
    "text": "talk about the updates of our eye cavers into a routine optimization draft first day is a quick recap our purpose is to optimize unnecessary pillows at every King essays including two or meet essay payloads at every King I KSA\u0027s and to omit essay mps pillows at a routine child essays why we can do that is because configurations may not change a frequent frequently and the SI NTS pillows at every King essays will be the same and add the ones that create creating essays so as the pillows are the same so we can just use a previous as ints pillows instead of instead of sending them again at a routine why we want to this is because repeated repeatedly sending here sa NTS pillows is a redundant operation and it\u0027s Eddy it unnecessary consumers consume its resources such as bandwidth NS CPU and you and the wicking happens happen periodically so this will mean periodic redundancies and the burdens especially for the constrained devices and for the ipsec essays when you set the lifetime based on the transported traffic and as you know the bandwidth now is increasing so the routine pure the wrecking interval will be shot become shorter so the routine happens will become more frequently and maybe even less than 20 minutes in some in some products and in 5g networks there will be more than 100,000 IT sector nose will be established in in one local network so the situation\u0027s will become severe and so our some of our products has already have already implemented this optimization and next is updates or our draft based according to the opinions last meeting we make the draft the optimization some simple simpler so first we make the IKS a working optimization and the child I say working optimization optional it means that it\u0027s up to the implementer to optimize IPSS routing or just child I say a king or both these cases and if you don\u0027t think I can say weekends optimization is insane sure you can just don\u0027t talk to my debt and for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:34",
    "text": "optimization processes we also simplified it and before there are three sub cases and now we discarded it discard the third one and the rest remain two sub cases are first in the initiator optimizer sends the optimized rican request and the responder can accept it or just to refuse it rejected finally here is a whole overview our the overview of our whole solution first in the negotiate negotiate of the support of this optimization between the initiator and the responder by sending the new notification at a Keo message exchange after negotiation there are two optional implementation is the optimizing the IKS a working and optimizing the child sa routines and for each cases they are all they are all both contains two sub cases and as I just described it it before so this is a whore overview about the future plan we want more feedbacks comments and reviews and as it is very simple and is used for in in the 5g network so we are looking for fucking adoption and question can you go back one slide because that\u0027s okay everything right so what I don\u0027t like sorry pal I\u0027ll just read it what I don\u0027t like about this proposal is the part where you initiate a consent the unchanged as a notify saying it\u0027s doing the one without the traffic selectors and the responder can decide based on whatever reasons that I don\u0027t I don\u0027t like there\u0027s no proposal chosen because now I\u0027ve got a failed Ricky and I would much rather have to know beforehand where I can do this proposal or not before doing it so is there any reason did does your responder dynamically decide that now it can do this and maybe five minutes from now it cannot do this or do you all the or is it just a matter of like it doesn\u0027t support it or doesn\u0027t want it\u0027s not configured for this connection because if it\u0027s purely configuration then this should not happen if it\u0027s based on load and I can see why you might want to do that and maybe I\u0027ll like it a little less but actually the second you mean the second case why the responder we are rejected this optimization is we think that you are for some products we usually well if the configuration changes on the responder side usually the responder will initiate the Rakeem process immediately but as this is not a mastered in the RFC so for some products "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:37",
    "text": "they may not do this immediately they will wait for the Rakeem period when the time when the routine times out they the responders just initiated Larry King so when in this in a second a case when the responder receives such our optimizer routine request but it\u0027s configuration has changed so it wants to use a new like cryptographic suite so it will send rejected the optimization yeah so that\u0027s kinda weird because now what you\u0027re saying is in the initial I guess a you you negotiate with this notifies what you\u0027re willing to do yeah and then halfway through without without telling anyone you decided not to follow up on that promise take the case where my clear so take the case that the initial policy on the initiator was AES 128 or AES 256 and they agreed and the responders and configuration was 128 so they agreed okay life went on but now on the responder they\u0027ve now changed the configuration to AES 256 which would still be acceptable to the initiator okay so the initiator then said oh let\u0027s do a TAS 128 again and the responder says no no I need to do 256 so if he\u0027d sent his whole list so it both of them yeah the other one I understand what you\u0027re saying but first of all all of these things are not allowed you have to use the same in rekeying you\u0027re not allowed to just change the entire protocol you have to do the exact same parameters so this is actually a bad example so like you cannot actually say host has to always be the same in a Riki correct and and if you want to split this and say I want one for two to show support for Ike and I won\u0027t want to suppose to support the child I say and that\u0027s probably better so that you can decide what you want to do but I don\u0027t like this like like you have this configuration and I understand you\u0027re reloading the confirmation and you don\u0027t want to kill a hundred thousand tunnels but but you can\u0027t just like change all the parameters and accept initiator to continue well it\u0027s been slow for this plus well for I could say keen I don\u0027t see that disease draught gives us a lot of optimization because if you put if you do it just usually like a Saluki and put in a safe below just the same algorithms that are used for I could say it will be a dozen of whites and probably thirty twenty bytes and you replace this twenty but who is eight bite of a dental notification so it\u0027s very small wing and die Casa Liki happens very seldom so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:37",
    "text": "it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s not well I don\u0027t think a big optimization for childís Araki\u0027s it\u0027s probably slightly different situation because you need to move the traffic selector and traffic selector can be quite complex and very long and if you immediately it probably it will probably give you some save in size but I think that for I Kosair kids it\u0027s not worse to complicate so please think was it\u0027s possible to simplify IQ drop just meet you like a say Ricky probably a meeting well at least a meeting like you say Ricky something like that for childish a keys probably make sense yeah and because you know I KSA\u0027s Ricky Mamie just happens not very frequent frequently and but it\u0027s it is also our an optimization that we have implemented it\u0027s very small optimization where is quantization because you save just ten bytes yeah compared to competitive bytes of like message size so we made it optional it\u0027s not required yeah well right so I you know thinking about this it and what with the discussion that just happened isn\u0027t it just possible that this is over engineered like you can still get this optimization but why why try to make it so fancy right like it just tear the essays down if you have a configuration change right so then you don\u0027t have to have all these different moving parts you know the optimization if it\u0027s really cheap to implement then it\u0027s nice right I mean you\u0027re talking about 83 things a second and in the whole network right so how much how many chances of putting new bugs into the code do you want to optimize in 83 times a second thing you know but if you make it simple it might be easier to swallow this right just simple cram it way down maybe yeah yeah okay I know the once a thing just like I said it last time I do think for the child let\u0027s say it\u0027s really useful because not only are you saving a number of bytes you also save processing all the traffic slackers because you have them already you don\u0027t have to verify that the selectors are the same as once you had installed before so actually I really like it from the child\u0027s day because like we could all use this per default to make our code easier it\u0027s not just on some high-performance server and and I think I also said last time that I don\u0027t see as much a unique version but the child is a version Delta C where C is a good case for it they\u0027re equivalent I don\u0027t like to get because it says options this adds more options that to be doing and and options are always bad because we get said if this would have been proposed when we were making guy question two we could have we could have said in that version 2 you never ever "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:38",
    "text": "sent s a pellet or traffic splat selectors ever in Ricki\u0027s and that would be very simple and would solve the problem now I don\u0027t want to have all we have to write this code and we have this you know we stuff always say unchanged oh do we have to do that and if it\u0027s at its new option so there has to be tested and that\u0027s why I mean we have way too many options already there we have a resumption we have all kind of we have lots of things that have text that I just want to have you know extra thing especially even you will say oh it can happen every 20 minutes but it has when did that every 20 minutes means it happens every 4 gigabytes we are saving 20 bytes or 30 bytes every 4 gigabytes I think it\u0027s like waste less effort it actually takes more time for us to you know discuss it here than we are saving the whole time of the you know lifetime of this protocol poster Yoav near why are there two separate notifications for as i undecide changed the first is only used in phase one and the second is in phase two so there\u0027s no ambiguity you could just have one so so for my understanding there\u0027s also some IPR configurations related to this do you want to comment on yeah before after last the meeting and the IPR has disclosed clammed on this draft and I think there are many drafts many are pcs in ITF that they have the same IPR come so I don\u0027t think it\u0027s very a big big problem for considering IP ours and but I don\u0027t know what people will think about it yeah I mean I don\u0027t really I don\u0027t think it\u0027s a big deal yeah so if we were to adopt this draft that\u0027s one of the things that the working group would have to have some consensus on unaccepting who\u0027s read the IPR notification on this can I see a show of hands or the posting of or the hasn\u0027t there been a the IPR disclosure I mean can we just is it the the free one or is it a royalty based one so reading from the disclosure it says reasonable and non-discriminatory license to haul employers with possible royalty-free so as you pointed out Dave like if there\u0027s one there that\u0027s great the work you just has to decide what that they\u0027re happy with it or not so most of the other IPRs we have our actually don\u0027t require to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:38",
    "text": "conduct contact they usually say that we are defensively if if you sue us then we can use this to against you but this set where you require them to you know the talk to the you know IPR owners before you can implement or use it in the code that\u0027s actually is annoying first for the eighties eighties wake up so so question is that I think this might be part of our Charter or Mike not the question there is that because we have in the Charter we have text saying that we are doing optimizations for you know something like that I think it\u0027s like generic stuff and these could be part of that or it could be separate so that\u0027s actually first I think we need to decide I remember last time we were think about this enemies actually I don\u0027t think we actually get an offer for a DS at that point either and actually what\u0027s the status of the ad you know charter updates bank attack yeah I I have some draft new charter text I need to put in the data tracker and kick out the review process for so that should happen the next week or two so but you can\u0027t salute you don\u0027t know if this is actually part we don\u0027t think that this would be a thing that a charter college charter I would be unhappy to assume that it is in the current charter okay so you you would say that we need to operate the Charter anyway so so before we do the working group adoption we have to you know work on the chart anyway that\u0027s actually pushes till you know we don\u0027t there\u0027s no point of doing harm to be up adoptees if if we are you know have to do charter update enemy right right I will tell check today but I think Paul about us I\u0027m we\u0027ve gone back and forth about whether we should do all these minor charter updates all the time I want to remind it share that this is IPSec minor extensions and I think this is a pretty minor extension III know that but we had also we have also in the Charter texted saying that we actually try to charge we I think we have texture settings that we always try to charter everything or thing we actually do you don\u0027t adopt anything that this is not in charge but anyway so so but we can actually do the adoption call anyway in the we have to do it anyway in the working group banging is so there is no part of 200 every we will discuss about the chartering issues first and you know then have the discussion later about this adopting this way the next presentation problem is that Paul again and we are running out of time a little bit or behind the schedule so try to be first I know you want to talk about that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:40",
    "text": "sure fine fine I\u0027ll also do only do this one slide so grave yet so we talked about about doing what about killing up some things so just a reminder we have two RFC\u0027s one for Ike and one for IPSec where we sort of once in a while update all the algorithms but then we only really obsolete the algorithms that are really bad order for some reasons are like like strongly discouraged but just a lot of these things that sort of linger around that are may that we don\u0027t touch and so the proposal here is to do a few things kill all those old may things that we don\u0027t really use anymore that are kind of deprecated and then also trying to nail down another not a bit in the in the IPSec and so in Ike v1 coffin because we really want people to to not use this anymore so the changes to the draft from 0 0 is that I was a little too aggressive I added some things like HTML 5 and D H groups that I really wanted to not be used anymore but those should go through the regular updates of the brca2 182 one and A two four first seven his documents so I\u0027ve removed that from the document I let the references to the documents in everything we do so if it said something like you know we\u0027re obsoleting this and then it instructs Ayana to actually say to clarify whether this was obsolete it or deprecated and the existing RFC\u0027s or in this new this new document and I spoke to taro a couple of days ago so we quickly made another change and I submitted that yesterday is that we\u0027re actually formally asking to close those two old IQ unrelated registries so that no one can ever do that now informally we\u0027ve already you know acted like this for many years that we don\u0027t add anything new there but if we\u0027re doing an RFC damn you might as well officially close these registries dan Harkins I noticed in the draft it says you know I v1 must not be deployed and I\u0027m not really sure that we can say that any more than we could say like you know you must reduce your carbon footprint or you you must not take drugs or something like that it we don\u0027t really have the authority to well we all we can say is we really don\u0027t like this and which means deprecated and it\u0027s already dead great it\u0027s been deprecated for 15 years so you know unless we\u0027re gonna do like the you know double secret probation thing so so then it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s deprecated so we and we want to make sure that we\u0027re that people really understand because it\u0027s been deprecated so I even have some free text I agree with all the other stuff because it says if you if you don\u0027t get rid of likely one you\u0027ll have all of these problems that\u0027s exactly what we should say if you don\u0027t do it you\u0027ll have all of these problems but we can\u0027t mandate that somebody not deploy a protocol that\u0027s just ridiculous and furthermore I\u0027m not sure if we well "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:40",
    "text": "maybe we can close the registries but there are other standards organizations that use the Ike v1 registries and if you look at the last update to the oq1 registries there\u0027s actually a new column added to one of them that says not for RSU 409 because the these entries were added for somebody else and and at that time we also agreed that there\u0027s going to be never ever going to I did not need stuff to that registry and who\u0027s we I working to open RISD and yes we can close the registers there is actually lots of clothes druggist reason I and I was talking about this earlier I know that there\u0027s closed registries I\u0027m not I\u0027m originally you cannot never close the registry I\u0027m saying that somebody else is using this registry okay she\u0027s not going to be disappear it\u0027s going to be there it\u0027s going to be closed which means that it\u0027s no it\u0027s going to be have allocations and I understand what you\u0027re talking about but I\u0027m saying that somebody else is using this registry then they don\u0027t they may not understand what\u0027s going on and you know maybe you want to send a yeah maybe you want to sell Atari I used to suck to yourself maybe you want to send a registry change your spirit change respect to refer to the to a different registry and not this one anymore because this one is dead hmm right so what happens if they want to add another curve yeah not going to that if if they want to add another curve than that they can\u0027t right but it but what I\u0027m saying is that if if we\u0027d told them that this is happening then they can change their there we don\u0027t them who did you tell we sent be sent an email when this was happening you know I triple I Triple E Center as a requester that\u0027d be neat glad that we have access and is the order I her statement was sent back telling that the disease registry that is not for this use and but I\u0027d really answer that oh we can say is our document anymore because it\u0027s so late it was bullshit because you could change it and then because of that you know is they allowed them to allocate this number and then I I Triple E said oh oh good it\u0027s we could get the number so we don\u0027t need to change the document it\u0027s we have already rained earlier that they can\u0027t change the document now they said all we need don\u0027t say that sounds like a really crazy history and I don\u0027t believe it but but but so dan Denton just in reply to dan by saying it is close to ers we are sickening to all the people we don\u0027t know that they shouldn\u0027t be relying on this feature anymore we have a liaison we should send a liaison request that I\u0027m saying this is what we\u0027re doing these are the implications of what we\u0027re doing you\u0027re you\u0027re forewarned that this is what we\u0027re doing sure we can do that so am i hearing there that you\u0027re you\u0027re not against closing those registries you\u0027re talking about the notification mechanism yeah benedict as responsible ad totally right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:42",
    "text": "we should send liaison before we just by close the registries also relating to Dan\u0027s point about you know we can\u0027t say you must not use this protocol it doesn\u0027t actually have binding force I mean yes that\u0027s true but we put that in our documents all the time as I ATF and the implication is sort of if you are adhering to this document and you\u0027re complying to this document then you\u0027re not using iq1 but you can ignore this document and your own peril so Danny amigo Erickson it\u0027s it\u0027s really good sean is behind me because we had the same kind of discussion in TLS we said well if weif why don\u0027t we duplicate TLS 1.2 and some argue is that because 1.3 is obsoleting in the header today that\u0027s 1.2 it was not necessary so I I\u0027m not against the draft but I just like we acquired with other working group maybe so so to clarify that a little bit so so in my view is when we say you know use Ike V - not Ike v1 we are technically talking to implementers like don\u0027t implement Ike v1 like we\u0027re not saying don\u0027t run actually one and this RFC is more or less saying it\u0027s been so long now you should really also not be running this anymore don\u0027t necessarily disagree with you hi this is Sean Turner just a minor word suggestion I think technically what we\u0027re trying to do here is you\u0027re trying to say don\u0027t use it but you\u0027re also trying to add solution does not make the document historic so what you really want to do is in the words I think it was like must is you this document is been off sleet it must not be deployed I think you actually want to say you want to move the draft to historic there\u0027s that there\u0027s a right there\u0027s a process for that and that\u0027s really what you want to do is you\u0027re taking it off standards track and then the additional statement is don\u0027t employ it so I can send you suggested text and also we won\u0027t be doing any maintenance on it so div clear guidance on how to run updates to make if you have good minutes yes Shani so just a note who\u0027s gonna send the leaves on request and there\u0027s to come out of from you guys I think this comes from Japan I\u0027d you know how I Triple E or some person who is actually sent that so maybe with IDs so I think we have five minutes left Valerie is that enough time for yours or should we okay um Daniel sorry I\u0027ll be I gotta be quick so it\u0027s an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:45",
    "text": "alternative an alternative approach for most want impartiality in I quit ooh so bikini for a quitter defined in the drug de Jesus already in publication request instated just online so we sent inside ksanych we negotiate that became is used in the next change and and I quote the PPK is barricaded identity is sent and it begins used stilt into the SKG and escapee computation so that initial I guess I isn\u0027t protected by PPK wiki so it was a wardrobe decision at the time it was assumed that nothing nothing interest nothing really sensitive is exchanged in I could say itself so and if and I charge this a are protected of course and if someone someone needs I could say to be protected it will immediately in shade Ricky ikazuchi so the problem the problem is that now we have group I quit to GI Cueto and draft adopted and in GI cui to the session keys are immediately transferred from group to group members in the initial I guess a so they these keys are not practices keys are really sensitive information it they are not protected by both quantum shared key so current GIP to draft suggests a very long sequence of exchanges that can work around this issue so we first the from I guess I need then we perform GSA også else is equivalent to five cows for J equal to but in DC else we don\u0027t transfer key stand with and defecation Araki\u0027s needed some of then group members initiate like a sailor key initiate the registration exchange deletes initial like saying so it\u0027s a total of five exchanges and for around tips so an eternity of approach would be to use I continue to to exchange that just becomes well there was a popular not popular but it\u0027s that it is implemented but even some vendors and to exchange to send appliquéd entity in the ikat immediate exchange even we can even send we can even send several public identity that is not the case with the original approach I and in this case the I call against and GSA always exchange will be protected to respect the gate because we will still be key we were already negotiate which perfectly I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:46",
    "text": "did which propagate to use I can will steer it into the competition for the SKT keys so if I compare this approaches I mean the approach of traditional approach an attorney for Porsche fusion PPK there are clear wins for GI quitter case because three exchange it is tenth of 5 1 th computation stand of two one computation of hours exchange in in case is optional instant of two and multiple public key can be sent so it is possible to reload the beacons by easy ways and further for I could say for like we do not 4G I quit you just for tradition like we - there is a more mixed situation because we need three exchanges a stand of two but if you psyche intermediate of for some other purposes - we can piggyback replicate identity into each so it\u0027s probably not we may not lose it something in the middle and it\u0027s still less complication for ICO\u0027s if you need protection for for for is a so what proposal is not to replace it\u0027s just an alternative approach that can be used it\u0027s rather simple it\u0027s a very straightforward so it can coexist with the traditional approach that I defined in the drug that is already in the publication requested States and Fuji Ike reduces this approach can become the primary one not so intelligent but the primary so what\u0027s your opinion comments questions probably adoption I think it\u0027s unwise for adoption if there is enough interest yeah we can bring that to the list but these drafts and relevance to Mike please so Daniel may give Erikson these drafts has been presented many time and I think we can bring that to the list I don\u0027t think this actually this is the alternate it went metal this is that it has been prestigious first time is presented so ask how many has actually read the draft one and if somebody has written it so there\u0027s two way Pam from how way I\u0027ve read this draft and I think it\u0027s very easy to understand and it\u0027s a good idea I think yeah so so I think it\u0027s the the I don\u0027t think everybody people have we\u0027ll have a quick posters here if you haven\u0027t read it but okay well I encourage people to read it and think about and sender comments to email "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:46",
    "text": "list because we are running out of the time anyway so can I can we get some volunteers to read the draft and provide feedback Daniel Paul thank you yes you can add that to the notes all right so Daniel we have a time if you want to come up hi so this draft is basically explaining how introducing a method to negotiate multiple I tried they say at one one time so next slide oh yeah so as I mentioned before usually the create charges that result in creating only one try let\u0027s say and what we\u0027d like is to improve that from one to n so this requires basically you propose a number and you provide another number saying I will not go above this number and you provide some arguments so that you can generate all the necessary parameters for that in this case that\u0027s going to be the SPI nones that\u0027s going to be used to generate the different SP is for each child let\u0027s say and you have a response with the same parameters but in here the end child s a is the number agreed max charlie say is sort of useless it\u0027s just repeating the previous one and s PR announced is just a hint to derive all the different SBI\u0027s so this is how the key maths is generated for all the different charlie essays this is how you generate you different SPI and this is the payload exchange and you can populate your SH Turki Vanessa says I don\u0027t think you actually can do that with SPI numbers because they see our numbers need to be unique and now if using hashing there is no of course yes you could generate non-si so long that you actually get all their you know SPI numbers you generate are going to be unique but it\u0027s got to be a little bit annoying we had this feature in a person one Mike or someone you would actually propose multiple I say you send you know multiple SPI numbers and no credit and I think we were the only implementers ever who implemented it and in our case we implemented it but they were no way to configure it so I think it\u0027s actually a little bit you know I would really invite like to see first that people who actually what is the use case for this before we actually want to implement it so the use case so well one question is about the SPI so you can extend this as long as you wish so maybe "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:46",
    "text": "there are other ways to do but I\u0027m you can choose the nodes so that you don\u0027t have collisions the use case is clearly when you have multiple calls it\u0027s better to to have multiple si at least one per core or and to avoid to avoid that you have some switches on contact switching and some essays that are shared between the multiple calls so that\u0027s the the main motivations Michael Richardson says replay counter conflict so I\u0027m gonna cut the line but for those that are in the line if you do have interest in implementing something like this would be interesting to hear Ben Carrick so just to check all the child\u0027s essays get the same traffic selectors the same traffic selectors yeah yeah yeah what is my slope for this plus so please remember that there is a limitation on the length of our F plus king material because there is a counter and it is a one point counter so you can\u0027t iterate pair F plus more than 255 times so if so you can\u0027t generate more than well it depends on the on the size of the key for the childís a that is needed but there is some limit on the number of assays that you can generate just it\u0027s hard coded limit in the equity space because of the definition of error f+ and I think that well I agree the historicity it\u0027s it\u0027s a bit complicated so probably well I\u0027m not sure that these well I see that it can get some optimization if you need to to do a lot of assay at the same time to several say at the same time but I\u0027m not sure it justifies the complexity well we should evaluate it so so to think so the first one about how you extend the the key match that\u0027s first some reviewer you agree on how long how much you can do that that\u0027s a the key matt is is is then used to generate the keys the length of the key mode is emitted so but um well it\u0027s going to be made basically a restriction on them but we can work on that scheme that\u0027s so about the complexity and I think you\u0027re referring to how the sps have been generated yeah but I I sort of don\u0027t understand where the complexity it is because I think you can turn really announce and you can see if you have any collisions with your SPI well at the same time you well you need to reserve "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:51",
    "text": "all this SBI\u0027s and you want to use those those that are I mean you say I\u0027m gonna do an exchange so I\u0027m taking ounce okay these are free know what there is a collision I take another one okay fine I\u0027m sending it and if those the other choose how much si is is willing to generate is the same thing and but when is suppose he\u0027s taking less or he\u0027s not taking that exact number or is saying no I\u0027m not using those multiple choice a then I received that ID allocate those so understand it but we have two minutes left if you keep your comments short okay I\u0027ll just write it so so I also thought about this a while ago and and and and so we\u0027ve been talking about a few implementers so this this three use cases so far enough where this would this would solve an issue one if one of them is if you need to bring up many child and you want to do PFS and you\u0027re doing defilements for each one of them it would be really expensive for some devices and problematic I talked about taro and he came up with a really good solution you can do this differently by rekeying the IESA and then creating the child so creating all the trials and then rekeying I guess a so so there\u0027s other ways where you can actually use it with without DFS and still gain the PFS property on the child let\u0027s say so that\u0027s that was one use case the second use case was if he if you do this per CPU so we\u0027re we\u0027re working with a few other people with Strong\u0027s on the Linux kernel to be able to do more processing because currently there\u0027s a limitation on on CPU versus Nick receive cues so we cannot use the full amount of traffic so we want to install multiple of the same essays on different CPUs and the use guys there was brought up you can actually do this on demand whenever another CPUs it so if you have 64 CPUs you don\u0027t have to set up 64 children you can just set as soon as a new CPU generates a packet it will acquire and a new sort of fake acquire message and you will set up the the the essays on demand so so you should have spreading a load arrazolo the third one is similar to the second one this was for the Equality of servers different essays where you\u0027re also thinking maybe need to set up 64 essays at once and a similar thing applies there if you only set up the ones on demand based on the quality of service bits you\u0027re actually not setting up many of them you\u0027re probably only setting up two or three so then it doesn\u0027t really become a much of an issue anymore so I think this this optimization is not really needed based on the use cases that I know so the second thing you mentioned so the first I don\u0027t remember the first one the second one I think you you\u0027re saying that you can have multiple create child essay after one of the other which means that is that is that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:51",
    "text": "correct or yes you do this on immense so so if two CPUs are being used for this traffic then you have two essays by the time you have some new processor generates more traffic and goes on a third TPU set of the third essay so given that I mean security gateway who works with 24 course I mean I\u0027d like to avoid this 24 Exchange weren\u0027t you doing 40 or 100 feet of traffic right so I\u0027m not sure what how that matters so so can you take this to the list because I think this is a good discussion it\u0027d be a worthwhile to continue it on the list so with that I think we\u0027re going to close the the meeting for ietf 106 [Music] "
  }
]