[
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:46",
    "text": "like we dry yeah you know so that\u0027s like contrast is easy throwing memory sticks out I don\u0027t have a coach here I have just me step out so we need a minute taker making eye contact with somebody here so one you can\u0027t move forever we go perfect thank you very much you can do it from back there but it\u0027s nice if you\u0027re up front you can ask people get their names and all that remember at the mic speak your name first clearly so we can track who said what when and we could get our op see he\u0027s very happy about you just have to listen carefully and oh we got jabber - fantastic look at that what I don\u0027t want your slides no I go I am my slides and then you take over when I\u0027m done Greg are you doing your job what\u0027s up the question you asked I\u0027ll never use you have the power so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:05:49",
    "text": "what I say I said you\u0027re the best right so oh I don\u0027t even need adapter so nothing to chase down so you are in EM Bundy we as we do a co-host this with the Pam group because we find this a lot of overlap on the same body count and that way you don\u0027t work on a conflict problems like we just all sit in the same room so we got jabber we got a minute taker GJ chef at gmail so sent it to me or even chairs at em bode when you get it so I\u0027ll go chase it down alright to get to precinct mode here I\u0027m formally not on the mic there we go always very I am your father Luke you hear me all right great oh there this slideshow BAM uh Genda excuse me sir in the front you this smells like beer thank you you guys want to work on your tools outside you can do that anything missing from the agenda out there he didn\u0027t put the note well in here there\u0027s the note well no well noted noted well excellent so we\u0027ll get to that next so first is Mike McBride anyone seen Mike yes the handsome guy that would stand inside the pink closer closer hello I don\u0027t okay so this would be one of the more exciting moments of embo into either s if it will be a little bit slow yeah that\u0027s good all right so just a brief history this so it\u0027s been two years since we first wrote this draft we kind of lost interest and for a variety of reasons we haven\u0027t really been spending much time on it but in the last six months as Michael Everson than others know there\u0027s been for whatever reason a kind of an acceleration of interest in this topic multicast over Wi-Fi and acknowledging the problems that exist in that medium and we had a meeting last ITF kind of side meeting ish kind of a thing to kind of discuss some of the issues and what we should do about it so we revived the draft and in between the you can go to the next slide show but Oh actually yeah let me let me step back and before I get into that so just a reminder of why we\u0027re doing this work here in EMBO Andy is this is the perfect place to do this kind of work because as the M Bodi "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:50",
    "text": "Charter says is that we should receive regular reports on the current state of deployment multicast technology and create practice and experience documents and provide feedback to other relevant working groups so we feel that this topic is a good thing to do here in Ambon d and my question that I\u0027ll ask at the end of my time here is that we should adopt this draft into this working group and so in the when we get to the next slide I can talk about some of the things that was just which is fine so in between the last two years Charlie my co-author he also wrote a similar draft he proposed it to the into area working group he described the interior which I\u0027m not involved in as kind of a catch-all for these kind of things and he and I discussed now that we\u0027ve had renewed interest that M bode is the appropriate place that we feel that this should be done in so this is the multicast efforts experts we\u0027re not the Wi-Fi experts but we are multicast effort so that\u0027s why we feel that it should be done here and he in fact in this other draft that he wrote is asking the author\u0027s to take that information and put it into the draft that we have here so just a reminder some of the issues Michael may know some other ones that I may have forgotten here but there\u0027s issues with using multicast over Wi-Fi and part of it is that there\u0027s this low bandwidth over 802 to 11 there\u0027s increased congestion which causes a high packet error rate for multicast streams poor reliability there\u0027s no acknowledgments for multicast packets as there are with unicast packets over Wi-Fi these six neighbor discovery usually easily saturates the Wi-Fi link because it uses multicast and apps like bonjour for that does a service discovery for things like printing services can saturate the link using multicast and it kind of was agreed and these in the last meeting that we had that these problems will not be fixed any time soon yeah one sec one sec \u0027red are the two lower ones not hopefully just slowly going away by themselves through faster and faster Wi-Fi No why not I mean if the if the speed of the link gets faster versus the number of these packets Michael Abram saying so the problem is that it\u0027s sent that the lowest common denominator right asked to everybody so typically even if you have like 1,300 megabits of unicast this will be sent at like 2:00 and everybody\u0027s listening to it so then that speed is not really going up that lowest speed these some ways on the edge this will be going at that rate so it can be one megabit than it has been for Loza right but it\u0027s kind of bringing down ecology "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:11:52",
    "text": "just names between them so you can follow a conversation yeah tell us Eckhart but it\u0027s bringing down the link to that lowest speed for the duration of this and for the remaining duration it goes up to the maximum speed so the higher the maximum speed is the higher the throughput up the remaining time there is another issue also is that so let\u0027s do this why this problem is so bad that a lot of mobile devices actually do not listen to these packets at all when they\u0027re sleeping then they just in Hardware just profit they don\u0027t even wake up the CPU so this is a there so there\u0027s a problem where on some of phones the if you\u0027re if you have anything that you really need like push or pull over v6 it just stops working completely ok but that is that is the fourth problem which is battery problems yeah and that\u0027s and that\u0027s in the draft yeah there are multiple reasons here uh so this problem is there\u0027s nothing telling me that this will be fixed in the next three years and most likely they\u0027ll take it a lot longer that\u0027s right stay with us so yeah I didn\u0027t realize so it didn\u0027t think that that was the main issue a neighbor discovery like the amount of packets or the pendant but closer to Mike quick push with my hair so I didn\u0027t realize that a bandit was a problem but yeah there\u0027s a problem that like I found whatever it doesn\u0027t really want to be woken up every single time someone sensor neighbor discovery packet so what they often do is to not listen to all of them and then you drop them the other problem is I think the reliability you\u0027re quite likely to lose some neighbor discovery packets which is pretty bad okay so yeah Warren quarry kinda related to the last thing who remembers the Prague meeting not the last one the one before when although I Alice was kind of sucky a significant amount of the reason for that was just simply there\u0027s a lot of our traffic and you know it turns into multicast and it saturates the link so yeah it all goes at the lowest possible speed which makes everything sucky you know this is actually a problem which we see in the real world as well in many cases actually the ApS just start dropping our or you know neighbor discovery because they only went significant on multicast and stick with us again I\u0027m kind of wondering though with some of these technologies yeah well why the minimum speed wouldn\u0027t possibly you know could go up a little bit right in the mic I\u0027m deaf try meddling trouble hearing you say that again Stig Stig was Stig was wondering why the minimum speed can\u0027t go up joleigh eglee so it has over time but it\u0027s several orders of magnitude slower than the maximum speed which means the time domain in which the minimum speed window occurs is several orders of magnitude longer than say the transmission for the same packet at a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:52",
    "text": "different rate so like other things become unavailable to you like for example beamforming and certain kinds of time domain shifting that you do at the higher rates that you have available so this is actually driven by backward compatibility with the minimum speed device that is or can be attached to than that particular network segment so over time that has actually gotten faster but it\u0027s like I said in some cases three orders of magnitude difference in performance okay thank you so yeah let\u0027s bounce on yeah so let\u0027s let\u0027s do so Moodle x1 so again with all those comments again it\u0027s our feeling that it\u0027s important to gather that information not that we\u0027re gonna solve it but it\u0027s important for the community to understand the problem so there are some workarounds this is a problem statement draft not a solution strap we felt it would be helpful to at least show some areas where there have been some workarounds one thing that spin around for some time is a conversion of multicast unicast packet switch kind of defeats the purpose of multicast of course but it is useful because the new unicast then gets acknowledgments and it\u0027s more reliable maybe we could provide a acknowledgement for multicast packets traffic classes may help it was described in our meeting last ITF may be a reliable registration to l2 multicast groups and a reliable multicast operation and as toilettes mentioned there\u0027s work being developed to help save battery life here in the IETF and other places when not waking up when receiving a multicast packets next slide so some of the comments from the list and again the draft if you\u0027re interested in this please read it because we just kind of try to capture basically the notes from the meeting and some of those comments were that we need to determine what the problems should be solved by the ITF and what problems should be solved by the I Triple E as much as we can in a somewhat high level maybe ITF decides that broadcast is this more expensive so multicast should be sent over wired I mentioned kind of added a class of service to multicast packets determined performance requirements for multicast I\u0027m not sure if that\u0027s something that we need to get into but there\u0027s certainly something we could consider and then another comment about private area networks as well next slide so this is last slide so the next steps we should consider identifying problem areas in ITF protocols that may be affected and some of those were mentioned just in the comments identify reasonable workarounds there is a mailing list that\u0027s not being used very much it is right after these "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:17:53",
    "text": "meetings but then it just kind of goes quiet because a lot of people lose interest in this but there\u0027s a mailing list you can join to discuss this and it\u0027d be interesting to see if this group full of multicast experts feel that this is an area that we should be working on if it is the authors have committed to actually not letting I go and to actually be actively working on it so we\u0027d like to consider it be adopted by this working group mm-hmm quick tour lists quick tour lists we\u0027re okay yeah I mean I would love to see that maybe the the scope is not kind of that limited because you mentioned you know a bunch of workarounds impossible ideas and you know if it\u0027s just you know kind of a problem statement and then it might be limiting us in doing you know the text you know outlining possible ways to solve the problems or even in case it\u0027s just you know simple attempts to provide PCP information like you know raise the minimum bit rate that you\u0027ve configured on the access point right which can in many cases be done right so maybe if we change the title to be a little bit more open well yeah and I wondered working group document yeah all right so just as chair will ask you questions and give a little direction who is here at the the kind of ad hoc meeting after a modi at prague last last summer Wow cuz I are you there yeah I found that as an eye-opener I mean all the focus we\u0027re talking about here is really with the most part is the fact that multicast is not acknowledged and doesn\u0027t get retransmitted so you get a lost problem we\u0027re gonna smogs on lost you know tolerance but that has nothing why fie that\u0027s outside the scope that\u0027s a multicast thing regardless Wi-Fi just a place where we don\u0027t get that transmission acknowledgement the point that came out to me that I was not prepared for at all in that conversation was power we had people from Google there with the phone we have people Apple they were the phone all of them were said no this just has suck in our battery-life down and it wasn\u0027t because of multicast it was because the applications that use the multicast so it\u0027s kind of like we have two-tiered problems here we have just the the lossy problem with lack of retransmission and then we have the way the applications have to just always be listening to stuff and being staying alive and killing the battery one so unfortunate we don\u0027t have that representation here of those people were in that list but that\u0027s the kind of intelligence we need to bring to this document and kind of separate I think the problems into those two spaces go ahead one more Rick Tyler um there\u0027s some crossover here with some of the work that MANET has reach arted to do so many\u0027s got some kind of Charter item to look at multicast frameworks for meshing radio systems more general than 802 11 but everyone\u0027s using 802 11 is because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:53",
    "text": "you can buy them rather than complicated kit I\u0027m not sure how much traction that is getting in MANET and I would suggest that you guys seem to be better organized about this it\u0027s good to see Charlie Perkins name on there because he\u0027s got a foot in both camps so I would be tempted to reach out to the many guys and say hey we\u0027re happy to take ownership of this concentrating on 82 11 to start with and that might solve some of the problems on your general radius or to come help us I might well thank you all right anything else thanks Mike okay thank you who thinks this is work that the working group should adopt raise your hands if you support it all right who thinks we should kick it to the curb all right I\u0027ll take it list thank you thank you next is your not Tim so if someone in the Java room that can take over my diver scribe of the duties for this for the juries or someone in the jabber room right now there are people in the jabber room but I don\u0027t know if somebody didn\u0027t hear can otherwise Jake\u0027s there gone all right roll okay let\u0027s see really can\u0027t you just the mic great okay so um either standing looking there or looking down um okay so yeah this this draft started about I think models describe many different ways of doing multicast and we were giving a feedback to bring down the description of the models and focus on defecating inter-domain ASM so this was was this two or three ifs ago I was here and said you know where\u0027s the document that says don\u0027t do an ASM with inter-domain everybody knew it but there was no document that was actually 2004 from millennion I but yeah okay but I was kind of like really really bringing you know probably so yeah so this is so Tim had a whirl at this document and and and changed part of it big due to those that feedback so but it\u0027s all at least for me and for a lot of others what does it mean to say we deprecate something so this is I don\u0027t know we don\u0027t know if this is the right way of doing it I think we all know what we want to do but like what what what IAF speak do you use in order to say what we want to say there next slide please so this comes from simplifying operational practices of the I am personally myself done nature domain ASM it broke every two years and yeah just fragile so then it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:23:56",
    "text": "seems I\u0027m not the only one so yeah the the more people want to duplicate it and I guess to tell people not don\u0027t do this if you can avoid it and it\u0027s like yes MSD P still needed for anycast RP so why not want to deprecated MSD P by itself okay next year so so we Tim cut down some of the text on the models and they did a new new section we\u0027re talking about these different parts of what mechanisms are used phrase MSM and so on and describe that and also the way of supporting an ASM application so that it actually does and SSM join from the edge if this is a way of supporting older applications for instance linear TV next slide so this is also but mmm I mean we don\u0027t say never do it or it\u0027s now forbidden or something like that but it this is a recommendation document and this whole ipv6 about embedded RP should we do the same thing with that or is that still okay and we do think that talking about them I think the general thing here is we don\u0027t touch em SDP status or anything just because that it\u0027s people still use it and then talk about a G\u0026P mmm LD and what you need here in order to support the the SSM join so that people actually so I\u0027ve heard someone mentioned that they mandated a GMP version three but the application still did a store camacho a start kimochi join suggests you actually needed to say you need to do an Eskimo G join and it is not about the protocol version okay next slide we take my question Mike C okay stick with us yeah I\u0027m not sure if I should mention this now but I I don\u0027t feel like deprecating embedded RP myself at least it has some it works better a lot better than you know using MSTP and all of that and we don\u0027t have much experience with it yet so my just do people actually use it yeah they do would think though I mean I don\u0027t know how much it is used on the internet or the mbone whatever but there are cases where people appearing between domains and and the usage yeah yes but are things that if we\u0027re saying don\u0027t do a SM it says both 4v4 yeah sakes I think the general advice is yeah and and it\u0027s like it\u0027s this is the same thing to a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:56",
    "text": "lot of other of these mechanisms it\u0027s like we don\u0027t tell people you know filter it you cannot do it blah blah blah and so that\u0027s I think what we\u0027re going to do is have a strong recommendation and back it up by it by advice I think I don\u0027t know if that there is anyone who wants to do anything else but uh yeah there would be good good to hear so this is also about for application developers because I think that if you come in you want to develop a new application they had the whole thing about having a SM and do a circle Majeed Owens it might seem right but they don\u0027t understand the implications of doing that at scale because if you\u0027re just looking at it from the edge you might get a different idea so let me throw a question out there just great Shepherd contributor here it\u0027s nice to think that application vendors will look at this for guidance when have they ever I mean says it\u0027s tragedy the ietf right I mean we have people who just randomly pulled Class D addresses out of their tail and embed them in devices without any concept of how it\u0027s going to impact the network or direction from the ITF so this is kind of a question about layer I support the work here mmm but how do we make this work actually do anything yeah so at least I think it would have helped me and some of my historic struggles against application vendors that only did start coming he joins okay look here did you know I don\u0027t want to do this so those of us who do interact with the operators or give me the application at least have a weapon to beat them over the head fair enough I mean I\u0027d rather have that than not I\u0027ll say yeah so it\u0027s not gonna revolutionize the world but at least it\u0027s one more stick yet one more stick yes sir and I mean it\u0027s also when someone comes along and says oh why should I make in my application more complicated by using the source code by having a side channel for source discovery like I needed my applications to discover what sorry so we can go off and ever in this conversation when you speed yourself along though that conversation happens all the time yeah and the answer is always the same how\u0027d you learn about the group I joined about the work I bring word about the encoding I don\u0027t know all that\u0027s out of van we\u0027re just asking him for one more field in the same channel yeah right okay next slide right so okay yeah I guess what we\u0027re saying is that there\u0027s a numeration comments on on where we\u0027re going is this a right way I think if you want to speed it along that that\u0027s basically what we\u0027re saying Tallis Eckerd yeah sorry I haven\u0027t gotten around to more than quickly browsing through it yet but it seems that maybe do we want to be honest in in saying what gaps we may still have with SSM in or you know the things that people run into that are actually the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:29:56",
    "text": "same specific like sauce redundancy right that you know we can give recommendations here or you know punt the problem to another document but maybe be honestly saying you know also the problems that no I think we\u0027re adding too much to a given graph what we\u0027re talking about is just trying to give direction ASM versus SM deprecation if you want to talk specifically about challenge with SSM that should go somewhere else otherwise how would people you know rightfully want to adopt something when they see that you know somebody says don\u0027t do this stuff that works do the news that where I as if you know user don\u0027t know how it works like I have no idea how to do sauce redundancy I\u0027m just did playing ghost redundancy is not specific to the SSM architecture that\u0027s an operational consideration that could be documented separately no I mean it\u0027s yeah basically it\u0027s a problem that you need to solve differently in SSM than ASM with us I think the document is great right now and I think it should be adopted right release it\u0027s really done well so who\u0027s read the draft who thinks this should be adopted des working group item okay not all the readers who thinks should be kicked to the curb then alright we get support we\u0027ll take that to the list one more question no just a comment to the sauce redundancy I think it\u0027s important because we did to move from ASM to SSM with the mapping at CHS and you have to fix the redundancy for the application inside the network so I think it\u0027s important oh yeah I I agree it\u0027s important the question is is that really part of this intended to document all right next then I gotta move this thing along thank you very much thanks Tim and now it\u0027s this guy named Eckhart you seen him Eckhart Eckhart anyone let\u0027s try to be quick sorry yep okay something for your you know sleepless nights to read up so after Prague we basically did some you changes to the document then it went to iesg review and we got a humongous amount of discusses back at which point in time I started to move it over into XML and github so that it can easily be added and also hopefully you know come out through RFC editor and then I started doing the the changes listed in the following slides next slide so that\u0027s the differ there were a bunch of small things I mean most of the stuff really came from a lot of the feedback from all the reviewers on the first slide next slide so more pictures right now each of the scenarios that we have has a nice ASCII picture and the tunnels are obviously differentiated from the physical peering point next slide "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:56",
    "text": "there is now obviously a section about congestion control because that\u0027s part of the standard iesg review and there\u0027s also pointing to be CP 145 that you know just came out last year which has all the multicast congestion control put an example kind of what\u0027s the worst typical case what happens right you have something that\u0027s controlled multicast in elastic you\u0027re sending it to another ad which autonomic domain where it\u0027s you know invest effort and everything goes down so that\u0027s exactly what you want to avoid the receiver rate adaptation and finally the also the challenge that when you\u0027re using a receiver rate adaptation typically have a lot more dynamic Eskimo G state so you need to look at the performance of your forwarding thing next slide public peering editor section because they were kind of you know on and off reference is two eyes if it\u0027s not a private private peering so I described the problem you know the you have a land between more than two a SS you\u0027re running multicast over it and you\u0027re running in all to all these wonderful problems with FEMA cert describe the three possible solution cases the management interactions so I try to introduce a clear description of what really you know is G always comes back with ultimately what ends up to be about privacy what are you revealing about the customer and so the model that were adopting here in the draft is that ultimately the as1 which has the multicast source is one that is also responsible for your content relationship meaning that the fact that it knows about your multicast traffic is just a small subset of what it knows about you from you know being the content source that way you know the problem is pushed back next slide troubleshooting M trace trace route yeah the one thing that basically had to add there is that the most important troubleshooting tool M trace doesn\u0027t work through AMT tunnels so that might be actually something of interest for us to or pin to fix because that really is that then they said we need to rewrite the security considerations section so now there is a long security consideration stuff one big bullet point is dos attacks so that\u0027s kind of creating state or pulling in too much traffic describing these problems and how they can be solved next slide the content security so that\u0027s discussing the alternative you know free-to-air content versus content that has DRM and then the main challenge that we\u0027ve seen in service providers that are deploying intradomain for example traffic filtering for the multicast traffic so that even though it\u0027s encrypted you can\u0027t even get a copy which you know you could easily decrypt if somebody else has cracked the key for you so that\u0027s done intradomain and if we want to do the same thing inter-domain then a problem is a little bit of knowing on both sides what the s comedies are that are carrying traffic so that\u0027s kind of a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:56",
    "text": "management issue between the two a SS in that case peering encryption details about the operational aspects they\u0027re also talking about how the exchange of out-of-band information like you know the s comma G States program channel information how they can be encrypted but mean for example just passing it through the peering point so those were explicit asked by the IES g2 to comment on those operational challenges next slide so of course there can be no document today anymore without privacy considerations and the previously consideration in this case I think for inter domain multicast peering are fairly small so the main challenge really is a s2 who didn\u0027t have a Content relationship with you can see what s comedies you\u0027re receiving and from that they can deduce to a good degree you know what content you\u0027re consuming and that is you know the whole extent of change of privacy and yeah you may want to use the one model where you\u0027re a MT tunnel across a s2 if you have any Content where you don\u0027t like that and yeah so it\u0027s basically what is it on Sunday Alicia did approve it so it\u0027s now in the RFC editor view that was you and the status I was applauding both you in the status good of course you\u0027re applauding me of course thanks for less and we got Xing looks like they spelled your name incorrectly on this one right you got the next two presentations good money em you\u0027re an Amazon from the te this product which is for multicast the information model the first page is still the motivation of this job we want to stand a high level to leverages existed separately and multicast model to control the multicast network next and the second is still the content of this job we provide a human readability of the whole multicast network by UML class diagram and also we provide a young model for the for the technology so you can use it directly and you can diagnose your network by it directly and the updater of this version we had operated technology in the UML diagram as has been missed in previous version and also we at BRT in multicast the transport layer and also we make some diversion to the model and attracted to see this model has been verified in open "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:56",
    "text": "daylight their projection and the project has been released in carbon worship so this young model is available and the practical this page is a brief introduction of open daylight from it you can see that open the right project is driving by several models so this is the pure project information daylight from it we know that the project is driven by two young model one is the model has an information defined here and that the other is a pure young model defined the young PR working group so the doTERRA update of the diagram and in the overlay layer we ADA the overlay part of this ethnicity in traverse right previous worship and also in trance part we add PRT next and the little more the overview is a remain unchanged now it\u0027s still and be comprised by three levels overlay a transporter an underlay and the motive has the information is still the key of the young model as it remain unchanged and the in overlay layer via the PDP and mr d snooping in the overlay technology and also in transport we had the beauty e as one of the part of the transporter technology and the in honor a weird way what is the one officer under layer protocol in protocol for the multicast so so this this job has been printed for several times and we\u0027d like to know where is draft should go and so we also we the lacquer tool for working robot option and the are so many thanks to Stig and Jake for they are variable comments and the suggestion Rick Taylor and it\u0027s a sort of young based question I was sat in one of the I think it\u0027s routing area meeting first thing yesterday where they were introducing the schema mount points it occurs to me that when you\u0027ve got your underlay specific I can\u0027t remember the exact words but your your underlay points for BGP or Babel or whatever yeah that slide would that be a good candidate to actually have a schema mount point so you wouldn\u0027t have to specify a particular node for each of those types of routing protocols you could explicitly say there\u0027s a mint point "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:57",
    "text": "for your routing routing protocol specific bits and leave that bit of the yang model to the the relevant area meaning less work for you just a question are you following that work the main points key moment mmm you miss that a we can add more care about how to use under a protocol to deploy the multicast you\u0027re right and so maybe I should edit more get hair about it because you know SPF or EC as we know that it\u0027s the underlying protocol of a beer Bureau as well of the motive has the technology and also PGP is under discussion for the multicast delivery information delivery and also PIM as original the the technology so as it has been here it must be be here so the Bible is the newest under a protocol to deploy in Hamlet or other slow Network so so yes I can add more detail about it I may not have explained myself yeah well my question is about for each of these nodes here so Babel or BGP or OSPF yeah the information underneath is that specific multicast underlying so it doesn\u0027t include general purpose BGP information yes yes it\u0027s only when we deploy enter um when we decided to use the SPF as an array at will you work a spear for technology to do the under a network and also we will we do not define the circuit here observes careful detail and we only send some information about our multicast I\u0027m sorry yeah okay so I still think it\u0027s worth you looking at scheme amounts so that the because I know I over previous ATF\u0027s I\u0027ve seen you presenting most of these routing groups as they are beer extension for Babel beer extension for BGP or and you know it\u0027s available for p.m. etc maybe you can do a clever a thing with your yang model by using a mount point here just perhaps you should talk to the net mod guys about I think it might simplify your model and mean a lot less churn so can i interject your just a question so are you working with a young doctor on this so we can guide you it hasn\u0027t haven\u0027t not been adopted s the one group on projects so no doctor will review it oh really we have to adopt before the actually review Wow yeah that seems so much time to look for all the privacy job - yeah I think you can ask yeah it\u0027s um eighty input here so I don\u0027t know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:58",
    "text": "definitively but I\u0027m sure that you could we can ask them and say you know we\u0027re strongly considering adopting this it would be really useful for the young doctors look at this okay so we can make that happen you know wait could you reach out to Sandy on your your issue about the point yeah because and at least pointed to the people who are actually working on this to consolidate and simplify I think I\u0027d start with Benoit I mean Benoit yeah I\u0027m no huge young expert right yeah but for whenever I see things like this I always start with Benoit and he points me at the right person excellent thank you all right so they this is the kind of direction this groups got to start providing anyway I mean clearly at some point we have to adopt this work if this if not this something like this and we\u0027ve got energy in traction so some sense of the room who\u0027s read it pieces of it versions of it okay who believes who should adopt this work for the group all right who thinks we should kick this to the curb it\u0027s not our response yet all and said adopt as well and he said even if we adopted we can talk to run it through the young doctors and then revise yeah right like I said this work has to come has to take place somewhere anyway and we I think it there\u0027s nowhere else we\u0027re gonna find multicast people in the IETF consolidated in this scale we\u0027ve got here this is where this work should take place and like I say even if it doesn\u0027t go off like this it will evolve with some support from the yen community and we\u0027ll have something that we can publish all right next or next aren\u0027t you next yeah oh you don\u0027t know yeah go for it yes oh I\u0027m sorry yeah yes we had we had general support of the room thank you I was leaving them guessing though ok good yep alright so this presentation is about em VPN source actually browse and MSD be so selective a messaging interoperation this draft I think it\u0027s going to be honed in the best working group we have a presentation there but this disembodied as the MSTP work before yeah I\u0027m on the present here as well so the first slide is about a very briefly review how MSTP works in this diagram we have six RPS ignored other routers are just heartbeats here there is a first hop router on the upper "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "right corner sending the pin register messages towards our p1 and then up here on were sent MSD PSA messages throughout the network to other peers on the lower right corner we have a last hop router or sending a starchy join and it arrives at our p6 his name stops there and once the are p6 received a MS TPS a message from our p1 the audience and the SG join him as she joined towards the first hop router so that\u0027s basically how the MSTP works in very high-level notice that so we we need to have continuous and MSTP sessions among all the RPS so that they can learn the sources and and then they can send as she joins once they have the corresponding starchy join so MEP n a source active is very similar here I have those four PS I have a customer RP in middle of the diagram and and I have a CEO outer at the bottom again I have first hop router sending as she joins towards the customer RP at the top in that customer RP has a MSP session with PE one and because of once the p1 learns that\u0027s a source through the MSB is a messages message you will send the MSM VPN source active yeah and that will all be received that will be received by all the four PS and notice that here the Cee is not a CRP here the Cee device gets that is connected ps3 that gets a start is join from Mass hop router it will continue to send a star Z going towards the RP towards the ps3 because P 3 is the C\u0027s upstream router towards that some customer RP here the ps3 has the star G States and also has the in learns the source because of the MEP and si routes then it will send MVP and join which is a basic MEP America\u0027s routes towards the PE 2 which is the um um measure out our upstream router for this particular source so you can see that some the MS MVP interceptive route and msg vsauce active rows are very similar here the Pease I just liked and our P\u0027s and and AHS so now there is one caveat one exception between the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:01",
    "text": "when it comes to the similarity between these two I\u0027m MVP MVP and MSTP next slide so a a a PE it will advertise MVPs a when he learns the source so the MSBs in messages but it will not do the opposite direction so we received the MVP NSA routes it will not convert it into MST PSA routes so in this in this example imagine that the the see at the botton instead of regular see we have a customer pete shoe there and then ps3 and CRP to the between the ps3 and CRP to there is the MSTP session there because that CRP to there it will terminate that starchy join there you will not send a star to join Pinscher in towards the ps3 anymore so p31 when learned the source through the MVP and si routes but it does northern the star G join and ps3 does not edward has MST PSA towards the CRP - and as a result CRP - does not run the source and ps3 doesn\u0027t learn does not learn the starchy join so here then nobody was in this as she joined anymore so this I believe this is just pure oversight in the MVP and protocol it\u0027s not specified there now because of that then we need to have MS DDP session either between P 1 or P 3 so that so we can we can have a continued continuous MSB session from CRP 1 all the way towards CRP 2 or we can have MSB session between p1 and CRP 2 or between CRP well and three once you have that then you have the continuous MCB session then things will work towards like a one question about the any cost RP pima extension the you know the stuff that we should be using instead of MSTP what\u0027s the situation in that case so yeah in this situation the the MVP only has the only relies on the let me see you\u0027re right that\u0027s the p1 the if if he when Edward ha use and any casa CRP to gather him register Messi from see everyone done it would it work the same but again when it comes to ps3 ps3 would not we would need Toto to to learn that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "as she s she register from p1 and then it will and then you send a see as you register towards CRP to there it\u0027s very similar you will need to have those continuous so obviously you know the problem exists there as well that should be what we would be primarily concerned with and sure fix it for him MSTP as well I hadn\u0027t you know remembered all these MVP n specs that you know whenever we\u0027re writing something about MSTP I\u0027m mostly worried about what stages the resulting RFC has right if kind of we can really write something standards track mentioning MSTP right so if that was done with the MVP in RFC that good luck because usually you know it shouldn\u0027t be more than experimental but then just ITF process for the poor working group chair other than that yeah let\u0027s make sure that it\u0027s fixed as well for the any cost RP yeah sure okay thanks for this very important so solution here at least in MSD be case is simple with basic is specified that when the ps3 gets the Mme PSA and it will treat it as if it\u0027s received a MSD PSA messages so that\u0027s it will advertise MSG PSA towards a CRP too once that happens you can see that the CRP two now learns the the source the sources and it has a star GGO and then he was in PMS he\u0027s doing towards ps3 and everything was that work in addition to that today the MVPs a Ross does not care carry the harpy information so when we need to add that to the message using the extended community so that song P when P 1 cent MN I\u0027m leaving si Rosie it will also carry the CRP ones address there so that p3 will be able to propagate that towards the our p2 so so in this working group at least previously we were talking about deprecating MSTP wow that at least has been Kara fried that it\u0027s not really about deprecating MSTP is about deprecating the inter-domain ASM he but another hand MSD is actually widely used for intradomain as well for some customers so this is really about some some real deployment scenarios that some customer has between their a meeting and M their MSP infrastructure CI so to answer my own concern about the status of this thing right I think if we declare this as an update to the fmm VPN rfcs then I think we can most easily inherit whatever stages they have yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:05",
    "text": "it\u0027s fubar whatever the number was 6 150 room all right so who\u0027s read the draft all right do you think this is work that the that our group should adopt in some form we have comments good thanks big and stick with us so I sit down the name of the draft is like best and are you intending to get this adopted and best or you are happy to do it here or what about that okay to clarify that I think we\u0027re going to stick in that option in the best working group because this is about that and it\u0027s really about mhm procedure but this is obvious this worker who I need to be involved yeah that\u0027s my thinking I think it might be done more invest but it\u0027s great that people here are involved and I guess one question I had to is is it a common problem with customers that they check they face this or is that problem to move our piece to to the PE or instead we\u0027ve kind of solve this problem or B start something this script would know maybe more about the deployment challenges um it\u0027s actually a quite common problem we we got quite a few customers running into this situation as you can\u0027t go back to one of the slides earlier continue okay okay so here because of this oversight today the customers have to have the MSD sessions between p1 ps3 or some other persuade but no notice that those sessions will be the / v pn sessions and also because what those additional sessions and so now let\u0027s say the PE one adult has MSDS a towards ps3 and then when ps3 gets that essay you will also other has MVP essays into that Network now so both p1 and p3 will advertise everything as si into that into MEP Indo mania for the same source is it becomes very excessive in certain situations so it\u0027s very clear at least to our to the situations and we have run into this the workaround is ideal it\u0027s not that I\u0027m not sure Matt but maybe the the question was this deployments in area right that you both have non PE our piece and the PR piece right and if I understand it right then the PRP is the reason is because the service provider wants to run MVP in a particular way that requires that and then the enterprise customer already has their own art piece avala that\u0027s what you get here right right indeed so here this is MEP in source active routes that that is simply that is similar to msps a that is for par impact of a particular and maybe a mode "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:06",
    "text": "is it\u0027s called inter sized source tree owning nodes you know the the two RFC\u0027s where they from best the data mercy yes so then it should be in best so that we can most easily declare to be an update to that stuff right - yes I think this is useful and I support adoption and best for me I say that again it\u0027s just useful and I would support adoption in working when is the best working good friday friday yeah ouch how many for staying through friday can help it\u0027s an input all right thanks you can be here I\u0027m fighting investigate thank you one more question the I\u0027m relaying in a jack : j : is this one of those situations where source discovery at the application level is impractical is more information about the details of the deployment use case available uh the that that can be made available it\u0027s really that that you is ready for the customer was introduced situation son its basic at any cost RP intradomain yeah yeah all right other questions beautiful thank you and back to administrative stuff so we just just get some status of our active working groups we\u0027ve got em trace b2 has actually been submitted is G and intermittent pairing now it\u0027s in the editor skew lots of us cos Taurus dress the Rebbe\u0027s it\u0027s our responsibility at this point to please read and confirm and what their working group last call I understand but reds are happening while it\u0027s in the queue and the sole responsibility to keep on top of the stuff and make sure the document represents consensus going through the room all right other Doc\u0027s we have info model we have the Wi-Fi doc you talked about a bit and I guess Tim\u0027s gonna give us some input which we got through a proxy Tim but thank you read and respond the lists will take the votes that we had today in the room as for adoption we\u0027ll take this to the list to confirm so please pay attention I try to do this right after the meeting while you know people are still engaged and hopefully before the holiday I know we disengage here in a few weeks and vanish but thanks for your time and it is now the pin working group blue sheets for M Bundy have they been signed everyone signed the blue sheet from Bundy this guy over here nothing but trouble we have one sign of him where\u0027d the blue go who\u0027s got it oh no blue sheet from Bundy you sit in a chair somewhere did your dog eat it they\u0027re all right everyone signed it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:09",
    "text": "actually oh wait one more signer that\u0027s him we did those guys name I\u0027m not doing their job no I think it\u0027s a different chapter room yeah yeah yeah thanks all right welcome to PIM so we got a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:10",
    "text": "jabber scribe already seems thanks for that and I\u0027ll take the notes for for 4-pin myself it is okay all right I see okay thanks I did now yes I can start sort of sorry I welcome to PIM and hope you all have seen this note well before it\u0027s not please please really look it up it\u0027s the same for all ITF sessions for working groups this is our agenda any comments on the agenda so I\u0027ll go through the working group status first and then they\u0027ll have these presentations afterwards in March we requested publication of the PIM me yang models they\u0027ve been kind of waiting in the publication queue a bit when the routing area decided to make changes for all the routing area models to support an MDA which is some way oh I think separating like intended and actual configuration state and all the multicast yang models are being updated to also support that yeah yeah so that draft was updated it\u0027s still in a publication q it will go to an ITF last call at some point if you like please read the draft and if you have any if you find any issues in the draft it\u0027s not too late to change it yet but hopefully it\u0027ll be too late sin we also have this source discovery BSR that you requested publication for I think couple of months back so waiting for that to to proceed explicit tracking I think hasn\u0027t had any work recently I don\u0027t remember but you would like to see some progress with the explicit tracking draft if you want or some yeah if you want to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:13",
    "text": "sure we have the offer here sorry for just lading delayed to update the progress but actually uh well the comment from ad words to make it more suitable as experimental documents so we are now inviting the vendors input and just waiting for the update so okay well update yeah okay great thanks oh yeah I am taking notes I guess I need to remember that I\u0027m thinking about self that way yeah okay you want to continue all right okay so the multiple up streams draft we are waiting for a revised version it did pass working group last call and I think once we had that revised version we\u0027ll be able to pick up the I ESG and then see where it goes from there the are low bouncing draft that last draft listed there it will be presented this meeting it\u0027s been a couple years since we\u0027ve had a working group last call and we will likely be issuing another one shortly after this meeting the our improvements will be presented this morning as will I June PML baby yang it did pass working group last call and as far as IGMP MLD yang being that past working group last call what are we waiting for anything not not really it passed last called just a couple of weeks ago so just been waiting for the offers to states whether there\u0027s IPR on the draft them and I guess you feel like I might be the Shepherd so I need to do the right up but so it\u0027s it\u0027s basically done that will also go to ITF last call at some point in time though and and if you\u0027re interested please this read it it\u0027s still not too late if you have any comments or issues on the honor draft we can talk a little bit more about that when it\u0027s being presented and MSTP yang needs to be reviewed we feel that it\u0027s probably ready for it in group last call is that one being presented this morning or no no so yeah so that graph hasn\u0027t really changed for a year or so I think the as far as I know the design team is have given a document I wonder if it has been "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:13",
    "text": "updated to support the nmda models I\u0027m not sure that\u0027s something to check but yes we haven\u0027t all these all these young models you have here they have been done by this design team with people from multiple vendors there\u0027s a fair amount of support but they need other people in the working group to also have a look at the models community there\u0027s a sign team you know it\u0027s kind of happy with it at least we need to get additional review of the MSTP draft and it\u0027s great if you guys would just go ahead and review it but I feel sometimes we need to do a working group last call to get people to actually review their drafts yeah yeah guess that\u0027s and there\u0027s a handful of people in this working group that\u0027s working on yang models we thank you and as you continue to participate so this last one before prefix over v6 it was adopted last meeting after last meeting and they\u0027ll be presented today yeah so we can talk a bit more about that okay okay so um why don\u0027t we get right to it then if there\u0027s no comments about into that oh shit oh Sh let\u0027s give it a go by the way I just wanna say I have a hard time always saying nmda or what it\u0027s called for these young models because for multicast you see talk about MDMA hi I\u0027m Josh from Ivy networks so this draft was first time presented in ITF 98 where we basically are trying to solve a specific problem where you could have ipv6 unique a specific says distributed using ipv4 sessions or vice versa and this is using RFC 549 and if you want to deploy multicast with it we have a peculiar problem where you cannot actually identify your pim upstream neighbor if you have more than one neighbors on that interface so we had couple of in fact we suggested three solutions in first draft and then working group here we discussed and seems like that we wanted to have only one solution and that\u0027s why the next draft was presented in last meeting 99 where we where we basically zeroed on this ipv6 sorry Tim secondary list "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:15",
    "text": "option and that\u0027s what presented and then later on prove accepted by the working group this draft in this revision we have slightly changed a model the overall as I would say we have just rewritten the draft in the way that we want to use we are portraying the use cases for secondary list option whereas the RFC for 6:01 says that the second a list i addresses should be as in the same address family as primary address but we have probably used cases where it could be of different address family and one of such use cases is when we use p.m. with RFC four for FX for nine and this is how the new draft is written that\u0027s probably it\u0027s one of the changes we have done in this version and it\u0027s a quick update and we would like a feedback and this job on chairs and the t yeah should I had a thumb on of the offers but they are wondering if people agree with that current idea about basically saying you might deviate from using the same address family and just having use cases I remember tourists last time said something about you know that it might be this might be useful for other things maybe also you listening by people six addresses for ipv4 let\u0027s see what\u0027s right now and anyway so at least right now we have like a single use case from why we might use this address this option for a just different address family and I think if the working group has any you know see all the use cases it you know you could consider adding those to the document as well well maybe talk about well it can be useful for transition or something but is it\u0027s one use case in their drafts right now if there is another use case people can think about I think that\u0027s how stick I know I wanted to put it out I mean we know one I think what Telus last time said that the networks which are basically trance transitioning over to ipv6 how we could connect ipv4 networks using ipv6 I think in on something on those lines and I\u0027m not sure if that\u0027s this use case could be applicable here but yeah we could explore those options yeah so I guess our question to the working group is is to working with happy with what they have now and are we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:16",
    "text": "more or less done or does the working group want to add more use cases or or is the draft just wrong and it needs significant work so from working group chairs please review the draft if you do have a use case per the request that anyone included then please do so it was mentioned that toilets made a comment about a use case maybe tour lists if you can remember that maybe you can contribute it okay so um monka mana is that methane it right good morning when common emitter from Cisco Systems and I\u0027ll be going through PIM dr load-balancing draft so what all things I am going to cover basically I just wanted to give brief history about this draft because it has been around for quite long and last last time I think stick did speak to other chairs and we decided that since it has been quite long for out of so it was not updated for quite long and people might not be still remembering what problem exactly we are solving so we wanted to go through what problem we are going to solve and what all the kind of changes we are doing next so this this draft was initially presented in a of 82 and after that there were multiple I try son and it was it got adopted by 83 and in 2014 I think it went for a D review and there was a couple of comments and author most probably they got busy and they never updated after that and we basically in current draft we are addressing all those 80s coming I can comment on that so did you didn\u0027t have last colony requested publication the draft as well but an earlier that was the ad at that time she had some comments and the office never managed to update the document and now we spoke to her alvaro about this current ad and he basically said that you know it\u0027s been so long so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:17",
    "text": "it makes sense to take it back to the working group and see if everyone are still okay so the problem statement if you see here so basically what exactly we are going to solve so there with current if you see PIM PIM protocol itself has been deployed widely and it has like it\u0027s being used so so definitely question comes that what exactly is the problem here which we are trying to solve so in this picture if we have three routers r1 r2 r3 in same LAN segment and only one of them is going to be PMD rs4 or RFC four six zero one and we are basically we are what we are not doing is we are not sharing the load between multiple routers so in this topology what I am showing that there is a gig link towards switch from team routers and this is the one of the multicast flow for example I am taking that the current multicast flow is taking around 500 MB so we have one more request which again it is for 500 MB and if third request comes so if third request comes if you see the total throughput what are one can provide it just one gig whereas we have request for 1.5 gig so basically what we are going to do we are eventually going to draw 500 MB of the traffic but in this whole LAN segment there are two routers potentially which could be MDR why not to share the load and the second second problem if you see it\u0027s not only about load sharing so in today\u0027s word we are trying to do fast recovery as much as possible so if we see if for example if there are 1,000 multicast flows which are flowing why are one which is currently MDR and if there is any failure happening in r1 we are going to disturb the whole 1,000 whole 1000 multicast flows and they are going to sift to r2 so basically we are so we are going to relearn our coral so r2 will be joining the code tree and multicast traffic will flow via our - so what-what exactly so we are trying to solve these two problems in this draft that the first thing was if there are multiple pim routers which can be dr why can\u0027t we share the load so in this solution what exactly we are doing now with dr we are having group dr so basically dr election will happen per group there are few groups which will be flowing by r1 there are few groups which will be flowing via r2 and so now if you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:18",
    "text": "see load load our load is going to get shared between both of the routers and the second problem which we talked about was failover scenarios if you see here if r1 fails even though r2 is going to take over but we are going to touch upon only those flows which were which we are flowing why r1 and the flows which we are flowing by r2 will have no impact and which all places it is applicable it is only for last hop router because first hopper outer doesn\u0027t really make sense to do any such thing and it is for SSM s sm \u0026 TM mode only and by D my door is not so of this draft so it so this Drive actually introduces couple of protocol changes but the these protocol change is not between the version 5 and verse 6 this protocol chain had had been there for from the day one and what exactly we are to do so will basically now router with their p.m. hello they will announce themselves as a probable dr and team dr is going to elect the GDR basically GDR is nothing but which I\u0027ll router could be potentially they could become dr and the pim dr is going to provide list of GTRs to all of the pimp routers and once any router it knows that I am one of the GDR so basically when we get so when you get a GMP join and if router is one of the GDR basically it is going to do hash and see that if i am dr for this particular flow and each of the GDR they are going to run this hash for i jumping join and create forwarding states and GDR assert so there are transition time when basically when any GDR is moving from GDR to Nandi are at that time it might happen that out outgoing interface has not been removed right away in that case there there could be assert and in those cases we would always like to consider that GDR state has to be considered for insert winner because if we go only wire I IP address it might so happen that the router which is going from GDR tune and ER wins the assert and there will be traffic loss and there were a couple of minor comments and there there is a six on six point to where more of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:20",
    "text": "comment we\u0027re in the section six point two two I had more content about how exactly dr GDR will whichever router who is supporting this specification how they are going to behave when they get IGMP join so in this what six well so basically were some six of this draft we have edited more of sections expand to and there is a link which provides the complete list of comments from Eddie for those comments from a couple years ago yeah it was from 2014 so they still necessary do you think so some of them where necessary which we have already edited some of them which I felt were not necessary I have not taken so I guess no comments so just a little bit detail about the plan going forward so when was this last updated very recently so it\u0027s been about six months okay so as anybody who\u0027s read this updated draft so we have just a couple hands okay okay so we\u0027ve got a few hands all right so I guess the requests from the chairs we need to have more participation in reading this draft if you have comments please ping the authors our intention is to you know reissue a working group last call so we just need to make sure that we\u0027re in agreement as a working group that that\u0027s the point that we\u0027re at it\u0027s that\u0027s unfair okay all right sandy you\u0027re up good morning everyone I\u0027m Sandy\u0027s up from the tea this presentation is for the updating of India improvement drops think this rushing we have a cause or a commoner Francisco thank my mother for his contribution to this charge and the update from working to and the working three we had more statements about a capability who is not the improvement of capability router and the we had more statements about the election algorithm and we add a new section for a pre capability of stander side its supplement of a solution well a new "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:23",
    "text": "router which have no dia improvement the capability comes in the new router sends the hollow piccata with its dia priority at first it\u0027s according to the FC 7761 and the the other for evasion of team protocol and after the new router receives hala piccata from because the existed yeah it compares the dia priority if the new router Hilux itself to the dia it sends hello packet with the asset itself so the exist here dr will receive this packet and the existed idea will elect the new router to be the according to thea election algorithm so the algorithm is compared has compared compatibility with now yeah improvement that have ability wrote her so it can be used between and now yeah improvement a capability wrote her and also the rotor has this capability so we think this draft is the but with using a need more review so and please read this draft and give me some more comments about yet and after that we can we think that it may ready for working group for last call Thanks so I\u0027m curious so many people have read that your improvement draft just get some idea you know people actually are looking at it\u0027s this every couple of people but there we we can definitely need more people to look at this and yeah I\u0027m planning to look care more carefully at it myself as well it\u0027s it\u0027s hard to make progress if we don\u0027t get people to review the drafts hello good morning everyone I present the masochist a on design team to introduce the updating information for the item P and emeriti Yamato last meeting the item here mr de armado is the werden 403 I can actually update "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:28",
    "text": "the Yamato chapter had been revealed by the working group chairs and the young doctor and according to the MD incompatible a worden and some comments from the Middle East and it had been passed to the validations - was what and nmda what is yeah can you just do Mike can you can you or somebody just describe to the working group just high-level what an MD a what is it asking for yang met models to do there\u0027s an update yang models right and MDA what is that MDA does anybody what what is an MDA what did it what\u0027s its why are we why are you models being asked to conform to an MDA like what\u0027s the purpose of nmda do you or anybody know Rick Thailand and I\u0027m not a young specialist but from my understanding the end nmda change is instead of having a single yang model which has your configuration parameters and your running state all blended together in one tree half of which is readwrite off which is read-only the nmda and I can\u0027t remember what the acronym stands for splits that into two data stores one is your configurable data and one is your ephemeral running data but they\u0027ve complicated it beyond that to add multiple data stores or multiple names and then there were lots of arguing but it\u0027s basically to do with the split of readwrite config and running information read-only I can just quote from that there there is a draft if you sir for young and nmda it basically says that\u0027s the ability to inspect the current operational values for configuration allowing clients to use identical paths for achieving the configured value and the operational value so it\u0027s basically a way of figuring out okay I configured you to do this what is your current state did you actually end up in that state because I said you were going there or did you fail it\u0027s a that\u0027s basically a way of is instead of having a separate operational there could be a different from the configuration way of doing in the animal so it\u0027s its way of simplifying and basically doing the operational you get the operational values for free when you\u0027re doing the model very helpful thank you for these data we merge the configuration and the operation of state to do one for the updating according to the MDA Wersching we still have three level hierarchy and and the global level and the interface global and the interface basic level so after the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:32",
    "text": "updating area level had the configuration and operational stage excluded interface global and attribute for the agency and I\u0027m already not change tested the structure hasn\u0027t in from the mailing list we have the comments and the Olympian MRD some features a one is to two features we add to the Yamato one feature is that the lightweight item here is real or a multi way to reference the RFC five seven nine or that is means the simplified exclude mode in the a protocol for the standard another new features for the explicit in tracking and that that because some wonder specific implementing implementation has the feature so we add the new features for the configuration we add a - country - configuration in the interface level that one is the explicit checking enable or another exclude lead excluded for the lightweight as in this way 3 or MRD way - so in the original state we add the host information about the host account and the list of hosts adjust and the fifth mode for the explicit checking function so next at there it will be asking for a working group last call or you have welcome to the more comments yeah so that the draft already passed working group last call these changes were based on comments during the last column right so yes we are ready to publish this but if you didn\u0027t read the draft during the last call yeah please please go ahead and do so I\u0027m hoping there\u0027s no outstanding issues but have happy people can help check but at least yeah we we had a design team behind this they were happy with the draft and and then there were a few people responding for the last call saying it was fine but making us a couple of comments but we could need more more input if figured it was sufficient to say the last worker Blasco passed but we really would like we\u0027d prefer more input from people "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:38",
    "text": "but yeah if people have have yeah review it and find issues it\u0027s still possible to make changes yeah all right so very good so now we have a couple individual drafts and OMG Europe yeah thank you good morning everyone my name is konzi Ivan I\u0027m from I\u0027m from Ericsson now this Adrian young model the effortless from Monica\u0027s the young design team we hold a regular meeting around every Monday every Monday evening this is a second version for the presentation and after the last meeting in ITF 99 we we have we have rich reached a new agreement about the whole host culture about the IgM is moving the idea I\u0027m assuming instance is defined to configure the parameters and shoulder of race operator original state it also follows the MDA standard now this is the fun functional skimmer for the engine he\u0027s looking instance in this instance the idea miss Newman sense face for both the bridge and the wicker has a scenario and let his state determined by the value of the tab whatever is this value is bridge and in this instance we use the in the bridge scenario name name of the the name is a key for a yummy smoothie instance we also define the IGMP rotary instance and the out to monaco ruling group could be configured manually and this is the static bridge monitor interface and a static out for multicast group all always I fuse here I\u0027ll read and write this other read only "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:41",
    "text": "I suppose the actual show the average original state data now and there are three Kangol ocarina face which is a hint of is Ralph out wavy instance AC right all out waking incidence pwf we have utilized the existing idea of interfaces and the ITF out to a few model to you negate the alchemist for another PW arrived and this is it arrived difference for this out working instance and point PW a new name absolutely define the smoking instance it could be referenced in the briefs scenario and it could be referenced another preview or the villain view all the interface view I can rate it should be reference another villain view and I absolutely and scenario I Jamie\u0027s movie sense could be referenced in the absolute genius scenario actually it is the the visualize scenario here and it could be referenced and the incidence view or the end point of view or another I see of a table we also define a gem used to being RTC as Yves used to specify the I am assuming cage tables and here the MMD smoking is the same is same as the agony smoking technician accept the idea twice one is actually for and the other is ipv6 and now we have reached equipment in the design team pause the whole structure of the item is smoking Yamato after I saw miss the latest version of the draft I have got some comments from the middle-east and these are unsolved problems one wise the the actual forward mode the former mode may be reconsidered the cause is only fit for the instance same doesn\u0027t fit for the interface nitin maximize the is the comes from the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:45:41",
    "text": "table from the Middle East huh and this is the corner - she asked her he asked where the convert for them non-member live will also be useful I have some confused about the risk this question that\u0027s why I would like to communicate ways with him on this honest meeting a coding freeze ice cream all polished at this question I so basically non-member leave we wanted to count if router is getting I believe for the group which it doesn\u0027t have joined state so it never received any join but it is receiving leaves actually I have defined some foreigners and the surface stakes near the team Hollow and also includes a leave hackus I think I just the it\u0027s just the leave Leo leave Packers a livery force if I I don\u0027t care I wish it weighs is the nominal you all number leo has things so processing for both of them are different if it is non-member leave basically you are going to drop it or maybe it depends on deployment or implementation how it\u0027s being implemented but yeah if you think it\u0027s not necessary then it\u0027s okay oh okay every serious meeting thank you next all the way is the apply follow local adoption and welcome more vendors and carers involved we also need more comments yeah thank you very much so a good job getting good representation across a variety of vendors it\u0027s great to see if you want to have more than that\u0027s that\u0027s good as well I guess we should probably ask working for pod options you have any other comments before we do okay all right so I\u0027m not gonna even ask who\u0027s read the draft because very few of us do unfortunately but by show of hands yes we do have tools that validate them so I mean what we want to know ultimately is one what\u0027s in them which "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:41",
    "text": "we\u0027ve had a pretty good discussion of and that they validate like those are like the primary consideration and and of course do people find them useful yeah if because if they\u0027re not useful well then the other two considerations don\u0027t matter very much rick taylor again I sound like a yang fanboy now and I\u0027m not really but the yang models are really important because people have got to be able to configure this stuff and otherwise we\u0027re back writing MIBs again and and you need to kind of balance that somehow we got to model this stuff so so yang is worth it and I know it\u0027s hard and it\u0027s tedious but it\u0027s worth it Michael Lorenzen yeah you just want to reiterate that the way we do things if there is no yang model we can\u0027t configure it because that that\u0027s how we do things so either it\u0027s it\u0027s vendor proprietary models or it\u0027s the ietf models we prefer ietf models because then it can be the same between vendors so yes I know it\u0027s tedious work and feels hard I think it\u0027s hard but we need it yeah it can add to I mean there\u0027s a lot to push for getting these models quickly for the ITF and basically told you know if the ITF doesn\u0027t do this quickly enough then people will come up with their own models or not care about ITF models so I think one question is do you think it\u0027s useful to have a model for a GMP Emily snooping and think that the answer is fairly obvious yeah and then I guess that the next thing which is important I guess is for vendors to see can they support this model you know does it include like leaves that they can\u0027t support or when or operators doesn\u0027t include the leaves you need to actually operate this box so you need people that know multicast to kind of look if Sinha models have the right content Tony\u0027s record so the first thing I don\u0027t understand is whether or not it\u0027s permissible to have the yang model as a standard for a feature that cannot be standard so snooping we had this wonderful political debate that it must be informational because snooping is so bad and so we have an ad here is there an answer is that in that kind of downgrade our kind of I don\u0027t understand all this politics with just I mean yeah it seems a little weird but I don\u0027t see why not right we\u0027ve got the beach exists this doesn\u0027t necessarily explain the feature just says if you use the speech show which isn\u0027t ready a standard here is the standard way to do it so yeah it\u0027s kinda sketchy but I think it\u0027s okay so you\u0027re saying there is no official policy for this oh yank into everything I mean no no but if I\u0027m basically doing anything "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:51:41",
    "text": "else that you know a derive you know protocol solution and somehow depends on igmp snooping everybody comes back to me and says that must be informational because you\u0027re depending on something that is an informational thing and now kind of the operational interface is I\u0027m just pulling because I just so I mean it\u0027s an interesting point I don\u0027t think that there is a you know I don\u0027t think this is necessarily being discussed before I don\u0027t think that there is a written down anything but I mean you can always move it forward and if it ends up being changed to informational you know I don\u0027t think the tracks that important as long as it\u0027s actually usable yeah I mean mechanically there\u0027s the question of down wraps right and but down riffs are just a thing we just do them right we we we don\u0027t you as an insurmountable obstacle because sometimes we come along with a standards track document that refers to an informational document sometimes we even do that normatively and that\u0027s actually just a thing that comes up in the last call and we choose not to ignore it and then when no one objects we proceed or if there are objections then we address them at that time interesting that the question hasn\u0027t come up in before for young models okay so the other stuff then was in terms of we\u0027re still doing new features without having yang models right so there were just a bunch on dr and stuff which I think have configuration is assigned with them and so I was just wondering you know is there any best current practice off you know how many years can I wait with the yang model or kind of rather don\u0027t wait but put the yang model together in the same draft or any other working groups better than we are hearing him so with this works like with SNMP but but I think the yang is now getting more traction so I hope it\u0027ll be better I don\u0027t I mean it\u0027s all about this is the ITF the right venue to do yang models under zation I would hope so I\u0027m not sure it is I mean if it\u0027s all down to how do we do things I would like the models to be developed here I\u0027m not sure the process is great for it the way we do with drafts and you know it because it takes years the the there are a bunch of yang models that have been you know going through here for three years not in this working group but in four other areas and if it\u0027s but if it\u0027s not done here it\u0027s going to be done somewhere else we need the yang models either it\u0027s gonna be under specific or it\u0027s like open config it\u0027s done in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:41",
    "text": "another Sto or you know I don\u0027t know if you call it that deal but I would like it to be done well yeah I was I was even thinking about is it even possible with the way that these documents do one thing or the other to that say no sorry you can\u0027t bring in the new bloody feature it needs to be configured the featured you know RFC the protocol RFC itself needs to have the yang model so that always avoids this you know delay with the yang modeling it\u0027s impossible yeah yeah big but but then basically yield also you know create these these problem that they will come they drove so Warren Kumari again just I relate we hadn\u0027t been doing that subscribe so I mean there is some what to try and make this less painful and move stuff faster Benoit has a thing on semantic versioning so that you know it\u0027s actually easier to do this and not have it be a mini year thing and then the RFC is published and then it\u0027s set in stone yes I do but it but basically I\u0027ve had this happen where oh we need to fix this then the vendor just goes in just proprietor changes we just take their model and then hopefully a year or two later out comes a standardized model that then all vendor schemes but this is like reality that\u0027s the way it has to be but I think the working group all working groups have to keep track of what stuff do we have that we don\u0027t have a model for and fix that Rick Taylor again just following up from that point there\u0027s also a reality that the people who are developing the best practices and the protocols are also probably the best people to define the data models even if they don\u0027t do it within the ITF those are probably the same guys so it kind of happens at the IETF despite the pain involved very good thanks and a good thing that gives comfort to Stig and I is that there are authors on these yang model dress that are working on you models across the IETF so they\u0027s they know what they\u0027re doing yeah also when I had that we so we have an design team that anyone can join there is a wiki page there\u0027s also mailing list for the design team and any of you if you\u0027re interested we would be happy to have more vendors or operators joining the effort welcome to do so and just ask me later or if you want I can send an email to the mailing list so just some update about where the mailing list in the week is and so okay so yeah so maybe back to the initial question they\u0027re wondering if they should adopt this for this document so who\u0027s in fear or adopting this document right now yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:57:43",
    "text": "yeah okay you are against of the adopting this right now so I guess I should do an adoption color on the list at least they have offers from a few different vendors that probably are in favor of adopting it so that\u0027s also helps but yeah I would like to say that right now it\u0027s just about adopting this and hopefully you think it\u0027s useful to have a young model for this you can always change the content later if you find that you know this is all wrong and so on but but they\u0027ll do another adoption Colin alistun good morning Sonny\u0027s again for beer flooding maybe it will be present present heading up to know meeting your meeting next please so let\u0027s see the problem statement it\u0027s a typical hybrid network and different routing protocol runs in different region so and and even in some region stating routing is used and there are only tens of routers in every region and we can found that in the circle above they are only one hop forwarding in this region and so if we want to deploy appear in this network according to the existed extension we can use the IGP extensions to deploy in different region and the build of several peer domain so you can see your domain one two three here so the polar route her perversely or bada rotor rotor must convert a beer encapsulation such as mr3 and Mar fall we want before so multiple PR encapsulation and decapsulation function will run in the border rooters and at will and increase the efficiency of be rewarding next so we found that maybe we can merge several regions into one beer domain so the peer encapsulation that the consolidation terms will be decreased the beer for the invention will be improved but there\u0027s a new problem how to build the be rewarding across multiple routing regions routing regions mmm I mean I\u0027m sorry that I have forgot to write another filter with the state configuration so hmm because they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:45",
    "text": "are stiffer winter IP protocol running in the network and the even static configuration route routing routing be used so maybe we can give you some conversation in border routers though it in more complexity but it may be worked in some regions but with the static configuration regime and there\u0027s no IP routing protocol running in the region so maybe the existed IDP extension cannot be used so we will elect to form our solution to so the every region so we use a protocol independent flooding mechanism the mechanism is defined young team sauce is Kara PS are trapped in human group we use this function to flood PR know the information in order to build your forwarding plane and the extension will be aligned with the SPF oh he sees a BGP extension and every nodes in the domain will build appear forwarding playing according to the very information and also its fever pebble is forwarding information base table so we can build the pier folding playing without the dependent of IDP BGP routing computing someone will be confused with this draft and the other a TPP or BGP exchanging dropped so this structure will not replace the IDP or PDP very extension dropped this function is just a supplement of routing protocol extension especially in hybrid environment and we know that appear eliminates pim protocol states in cardamon but the destructor is not backward we just use the flooding function to delivery ER knows the information the we do not use pin protocol to building Modi has the trees so there\u0027s a lot of discussion in the mailing list and I have talked to jeopardy yesterday and found that maybe in IDP in her option it\u0027s campy are way too so the IDP interruption but we sink the pimple adding mechanism may be our general function for this network especially the networker who has which has the static configuration area so we want more "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:03:47",
    "text": "comments about the function and the IDP interruption function mmm maybe maybe this function can be used the default generals and maybe mmm there can be two drafts fo for the function when operator can select the right way to use for their networks if the network hasn\u0027t has a cos theta configuration area we can use the IDP interruption function and if they had some static or configuration region you can use this function to for generic solution so it\u0027s the in turn it\u0027s a personal time introduction of this job and we need more comments about these because the network is very commonly used especially in China other country but it\u0027s typical habría Network a network in China so we must have found a way to so bad so question who man Nokia when I was reading the draft I was a little confused which I think you clarified it here so you mentioned PIM you\u0027re not gonna be used for any SG States you\u0027re just using it to really odd year information yeah it\u0027s a we only use a pimp protocol pimp akator to Florida we all know the information and we will not use it I mention that the talks that you had was now going toward IGP so does it make sense to push this entire thing into the beer working group or are you guys still keeping it here and under the team working good we think it must include the PIM people and also the beer people to think about it because we want to deploy a beer in the network but the people so yeah I think that is what what is him really bringing into this solution that something like a GP or BGP cannot cannot solve I don\u0027t understand like the pin when he said flooding what do you mean by that you mean multicast yeah so a committee had a couple of comments so one thing is beer is doing the extension so SPF and ice ice and so they are done in the dear working group so it\u0027s not clear you know in this case whether this would be maybe done in beer as well I\u0027m not PIM but that\u0027s something we can discuss later but the misused or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:06:47",
    "text": "here there\u0027s this new PIM PIM mechanism where you can basically distribute some information like any kind of tea at least throughout the PIM domain so so the only thing here is a sappy message type that allows you to send hop-by-hop throughout your domain some kind of info any kind of information so it\u0027s a little bit like you most what you might do in an IDP or like say eius eius so in a way it doesn\u0027t have to be PIM at all maybe the message type the protocol type is PIM but it could easily be some new protocol type as well yeah so I guess the only comment is if it\u0027s if it\u0027s not pain and you guys seem to be a little bit open on that idea then I guess this whole document will be kind of pushing to the beer working group which makes it a little bit different like it seems like it\u0027s kind of between two working groups right now so I\u0027m beginning to wonder if it\u0027s cleaner to go one way or the other that\u0027s all thank you thank you hey I saw Cisco so it\u0027s not a bad idea I think the problem but it\u0027s not very fashionable these days to have like separate protocol to distribute this information as a lot of information these days is put into the IGP all right so this would become like the LDP for unicast it\u0027s like the the equivalents in full form for beer so that sense is sort of going in the opposite direction yeah so but it\u0027s something to think about but that\u0027s my basic concern so Warren Kumari without any hats I mean it sort of feels like seeing as beer is doing other extensions in beer you know maybe it makes sense if this goes forward but to be discussed there and just to be you know strong cross working group discussion and lost cold and stuff see see here just a thought Jeffrey from juniper I still think that it\u0027s better to have border routers to includes VFR ID and subdomain information for via free using other domains into the advertisement for this domain using using ESR has two disadvantages here one besides that it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s pin-based so first one is that PSR it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s refreshing protocol and I GP flooding it\u0027s semi soft states another thing is that the encapsulation information for example the NPS labels for different domains and subdomains and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:09:48",
    "text": "defends us pierre sets those information is only needed in one domain it really does not need to go into other domains and when you use I use I GP border routers to carry information for for those PFA ours in other domains you can strip those encapsulation area information and so that brings you more optimization yes your proxy is one way to so which so we can discuss if well the solution can be mmm right can be rotating this job huh oh another option to through even to write my gadgets and operator can choose well which way to solve their problem yeah so I forgot actually comment and because in direction or Geoffrey said so have you thought about you know redistributing the beer information from one IP into the other yeah but I think you can do that as well that to solve this problem yeah problem it\u0027s like the proxy proxy function and the IDP interruption right yeah yeah we can you think and this function I think as as all as still has some useful maybe maybe someone can want to use a simple way to achieve it the result so I don\u0027t know mmm but I need more comments about yet and the operator may may come and say and the week have got the thinking about the operator yeah another factor to consider is that even though you use PSR to brush that to apply that information you still need the beer will a GP or or or some peer specific more in the implementation you still need some cool to to use the flooded information and if you use that beep your vgb to to to convert to Twitter has information then you already have everything altogether so maybe one last comment as we kind of brought it up on operator point of view do you foresee operators welcoming him again in in in that network to a stitch this IGP areas so I made the clarification we just use pin function but we do not use pin protocol to build a multicast tree I think that\u0027s understood but still with with the same token that that means you need to have ping adjacencies between these two IG "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:12:49",
    "text": "carrier yeah again all I\u0027m wondering is that any operators that you have actually gone forward to and what is their opinion about bringing him back into the net Tim has be deployed widely so maybe they think that the the extension can be used easily why you could get the new protocol number and call it something thank you okay so just to be clear the draft has beer and the title of the draft there\u0027s been no request from the pin working group as far as I know so this is just an informational presentation to let us know what\u0027s going on in in beer yeah okay thank you all right just go ahead with this and it\u0027s really up to beer to say whether they they want this stuff and that\u0027s it any other people want to make any comments about anything okay thank you very much "
  }
]