[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:43",
    "text": "[Music] all right is the top of the hour but we'll give another minute or two to make sure everybody can possibly get into um me Echo for those unfamiliar with using it so we'll give another minute or two and then we'll get started [Music] good day Anthony I do not hear you oh can you can you hear me now now I can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "hear you yes yeah welcome thank you very much great to meet you you too we will let's go ahead and get started this is likely going to be a small group but it's the the core set of people are here um I'm not sure where chair where Claire went she was here earlier but U maybe she'll be back in a bit this is the secure asset transfer protocol working group interim meeting as a reminder um all of these meetings are recorded and later published to YouTube uh that also includes anything in the chat by the way uh we'll start with the note well as we always do this is a sort of reminder that uh about ietf policies on um both how patents work within the ATF and code of conduct I'm not a lawyer um so I you should go read the note well um there's good links on the ATF if you're going to contribute and have knowledge of what's happening in your country that may be company that may be related to the satb topic uh you should definitely be aware um how your contributions apply uh there's a bunch of information about the working group um we have a data tracker page about it and um our purpose is really to develop a protocol to transfer digital assets between two different networks I think most people know that uh there's a couple of drafts that exist um already to date and sorry about my uh notifications that are going off I'll have to quit that that chat application there's a bunch of people chatting from a completely different group uh so the agenda today um introductions and announcements that's sort of us at the moment um and I would really love a note taker um I posted a note link to the chat room if anybody is willing to uh take notes I as I said earlier I threw my back out at I'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "because it doesn't really please it and so you know notes just really need to be sort of decisions made and things like that uh we don't need anything terribly for both word for word or anything like that um if you are interested and willing to be a note taker please do speak up if you're a really active participant you're probably not the right person to take notes but um um if you're going to participate in the discussions but somebody else would be helpful uh we'll talk about the architecture document first and then we'll talk about the set Peak core document um they're obviously related and then of course if there is time we often have other discussion topics uh under any other business although we have no pre-listed for today couple of quick announcements uh we have a new area director uh we thank Paul for his time um but Orie steel is the new area director as things have re shuffled in the ASG Claire and I had a good chat with him a couple of weeks ago um and he's very interested in this work so that's a good thing um couple of quick reminders um I know uh not everybody is super familiar with the ETF but the way the ETF process happens all discussions and decisions really needs to be made on the mailing list or in a you know an official public venue that actually includes GitHub um tickets and things like that or in official meetings in interim so please don't have side discussions that um are are going to be decision-making uh related things so um they really do need to be officially announced in our meetings um actually CLA and I guy reprimanded for um actually scheduling this one too fast we really need to post an agenda two weeks in advance of of meetings in the first place um although since there was already a discussion that was going to happen uh he let it slide this time but uh a quick reminder about our scope um in scope is the asset Network to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "network transfer in other words um things being transferred between two networks out of scope is um you know how a network has to deal with guaranteeing that they have the ability to um you know to actually do that transaction and and I think it's well recognized that that is a uh it can be a challenge not to think about the whole problem um when when you know you need to make sure that a network um can be legally obligated to be able to to hold on to lock and then transfer an asset um but the charter of this working group specifically excludes that because there was nervousness um when the working group is formed that we were biting off more than we could chew and they should really be independent things and so legal agreements um you know sort of help protect that uh also in scope though are requir ments for what an asset Network must have right and you you know you obviously need to be able to tell the Gateway and the other in a particular Network that hey you have to have the ability to ensure that you can complete this transaction and you know whether that's locking or semantics related to that U we just can't dictate how that happens uh that might be future work and then finally our next setp meeting will be at ietf 1220 um I did submit a request for it earlier today um so we should get a time slot um at ITF 1220 um if you're not going to attend physically that is fine there is a remote attendance as well we know that the a number of people will be there physically so I look forward to it uh and then we have a a diagram that we've thrown up a lot in the past about scope um and it really just shows that the yellow box in the middle is what we're talking about everything else is is potential future scope but for the time being um only between sort of these"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "two gateways that bound the network is is within scope uh with that does anybody have questions before we get started and dive into architecture related discussions just a quick one um just to clarify hi I'm for those that don't know me I'm I'm the co-chair um when we say between networks uh the scope for the first draft is omnidirectional so from Network a to network B um also was I don't know if you were sharing slides but I didn't see anything I don't know if anyone else had that same issue I was just going to say I can't see the slide what oh that's weird because it shows on my screen that I'm sharing it it shows for me it just says a screen shows being started uh Dr okay let me try again and I apologize because that would have been a much more um understandable conversation had you actually seen my slides I did wonder and it wasn't until you said in the yellow box that I thought ah there we go here we go the scope that's the exact same thing I did before so anyway we love me Echo it's it's a wonderful tool um so really quickly uh make sure you understand the note well that was a critical thing um there's a lot of working group information you guys already know all that uh there's the agenda we have for the day including the note link which is at the bottom uh these reminders I read over in person and then that is the diagram that I was just talking about so thank you and apologies to everybody and thank you for CLA uh you clarified that remember that this is also a a unidirectional transfer with the goal of eventually you know being able to do swapping or bidirectional transfers but that is out of scope for uh sort of version one thank you Claire no worries and and just to Echo really what you're seeing on screen uh for those of you that are new that this does include Legacy systems this is not blockchain and and cannot"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "just be for blockchains this must be agnostic to the underlying network uh thank you that is also very true this is why we use asset Network a lot um there's definitely people that that would prefer it to be generic and more importantly um there's a lot of antagonistic people against the word blockchain that um that we are trying to make it work for many different types of systems both public and private um ledgers as well anything else is anybody willing to help take [Music] notes I will do what I can [Music] someone um what CLA you kind of broke [Music] up all right so why don't we turn it over to um Thomas to capture and I by the way we greatly appreciate all of the discussion this happen on the mailing list it's been a very active um discussion so I greatly appreciate it but Thomas do you want to give us sort of the status of uh where things are I I believe that you have said that you believe the architecture document is ready for a last call um correct yes yes so you you guys need to see my uh my face with the hay fever or you just just no no no it's fine and you don't need to see me with my bed back either um yeah you're really quiet though are you able to turn your volume up at all let me do that is is this better this is um is that better that's a little bit better yes thanks yeah sorry this is H Firefox for you but uh okay yeah so so architecture I think this has been uh waiting a long time and I think the the one big one was uh you know David with the suggestions of adding a more text"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "about uh the threat analysis and um you know uh there's only so much that we could put in the appendix a but it could be that a future document assuming that people interested a future work item could be a threat analysis uh document on the protocol so that implementers are are wary uh can can can know that that some some aspects of it are are uh open to possible attacks such as you know um the ones discussed in the appendix such as the gateway to you know pretending message is lost and then you know exhausting Gateway one right so that's uh that's kind of the first topic the second probably last issue is Anthony brought up interestingly this topic of ownership and I just posted this morning um some wording this is section 3.3 there was a there was a an assumption there where we said that the Gateway technically owns the asset while it is handling it and I was thinking maybe a softer term could be control because uh I'm thinking beyond what you know our community other communities May um not like the term owned right because uh own is not a engineering mechanical sort of term it's it's more of a you know legal term and so control might be a softer word uh but the the intent is clear that the Gateway owner is legally in you know financially liable if something goes wrong during the transit and this also follows from our probably unstated assumption that that gateways are not you know Anonymous machines you know running out there there there is somebody that is um in charge of it and kind of is is um acts as a service provider and so I think in some other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "sections of the document you know you might hear the word you know Gateway service provider Gateway provider uh you know or Gateway as a service all points to the fact that that there is there is some human being or some company or business that is legally on the hook financially on the hook uh during the uh uh controlling of the asset in transfers throughout the duration do you want me to chip in there Thomas uh yeah go ahead yes yes my mic is open so yeah I I can understand that um that there may be circumstances in which the Gateway operator has that control and liability but there are other circumstances in which the Gateway is just a technical um um construct that could very well I mean we could very well pass assertions about about the state of the asset during the during the transfer so to the extent that um let's let's let's take an example if if um if City Bank for example is has issued a token and it says yes you know we we've locked the asset um passing an assertion back that says yes City Bank has locked the asset um May in certain circumstances be sufficient for for the for the transfer to take place in other words the other side May well say okay fine I'm happy then to Mint the asset on the other side on because I have assigned assertion from City Bank that um that it will that it's the asset is locked and can't be moved in other circumstances that's not going to be enough so you may have to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "have a third party because or or you may have to have um you know a more uh certain outcome so you could say for example the assets been transferred to this escrow account in effect which is what we're saying the Gateway could hack there um but I can't see the need for the gateway to be um to for for it have to be the Gateway operator because the Gateway operator is just another person entity and the Gateway is asserting well let's say the Gateway operator is FIS for example okay the Gateway is asserting oh FIS is now holding this asset how is that different from functionally different from the Gateway asserting well you know um Bank of New York is holding this asset now I mean to me it seems like the gayway should be a technical construct which passes assertions rather than being a participant in the transaction um it could I mean the Gateway operator could choose to be a participant in the transaction but making it a part of the protocol kind of limits options at this point I think um so let me try and get some clarification on this discussion so we can pick sort of one topic to dwell in on in in particular um I think that the the primary topic that Thomas was bringing up was about what the right terminology should be that we should stick to in the documents um and there's very good points about uh who is what entities are you know sort of what roles they play um and I I wondering are there two topics"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "here we want to discuss with the first one being the terminology of of own versus control versus some other terminology um I I think that it if you know with with my technical non-chair hat on right the word own does seem like a very weird you know verb to be using with the Gateway in particular um but when we are discussing the the protocol being developed between the two gateways what is the right term to be using when talking about you know the asset and how that is in being held essentially I would use assert well assert is assert what though right assert uh you can't say I assert the asset no you're asserting that the Gateway pass an assertion that the asset is [Music] disabled that means that the assertion is has a an identity like a certificate and a signed assertion that the other party can choose to can evaluate basically as to whether they complete their side of the transaction if that assertion came from City Bank B maybe if it came from you know second swamp Bank of Alabama maybe not soor I don't mean to I I think Alabama that's what we have in the flows right these are set of sign assertions from a thing called a Gateway now the the the end points so if you look into the the core uh we use the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "word endpoint in a lot of it aspects like in a 2.0 it's always you know authorization endpoint you know token validation endpoint and so the endpoint is the thing that that you know communicates with its peer endpoint and so in your in your example Anthony if you know if if in fact the assertion is being produced by you know some other third party like an escrow company well maybe in fact that the yellow flow there uh the the you know it is actually running you know between an escro entity with Gateway G2 and so so you know it that that's the focus is is we need to complete a message assertion flow set of assertions so that both sides are happy that both sides uh are have done what they they promis to do according to the Sai Corp protocol and they're liable if you know they lie right and so I think I think the word Gateway is just a generic um uh you know way for engineers to say this is the end point right and so we could say sender endpoint receiver endpoint uh that would create other questions well like who's the sender is it you know Chase Bank is it uh you know some other institution right the point is there's always going to be a a sending endpoint and a receiving endpoint and vice versa in the in the peer you know perer messaging the the protocol I I agree that then the question would arise do does you don't want to have at least I wouldn't think you'd want to have a Gateway per sender and a gate a different Gateway per receiver so these are shared entities so behind Gateway One you could have um lots"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "of um actors um so that's why I'm trying to really think about the separation between the Gateway and the and the party that is participating in the transaction so on a on on a public blockchain you're going to have hundreds of thousands of different actors um and not each of them is going to have a Gateway so the Gateway has to be a shared resource that's not spef specific to any one particular actor on in the in the network that's behind yeah that's that's definitely supportable so so for example you know i' I've said multiple times I mean the gateways could just be a thin shim right just you know a front-facing to be perfectly blunt you know web server right a balancer load balancer and behind the thin shim Gateway could be you know real actors real machines right I think the the the point is that somebody has to sign it in such a way that the other side G2 and whoever is behind the thin shim at G2 is is accepting the signatures number one and number two um the session has to remain intact from commencement to the end right so you can't switch signatures SES you know Midway right so if if there's an actor behind G1 you know actor A1 and there actor A5 behind G2 well if the session commences with the signatures from A1 and A5 then it has to commence all the way to the end right you can't you can't break the flow Midway and switch SES because it'll break you know atomicity and all the acid guarantees yeah exactly exactly so I mean the way that um that when in our in our software me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "we're doing this sort of thing within our software and we're trying to bring it to be compliant with satp that's that's my kind of like approach the way we're doing that within our software is to with each message to send um a signature what's a hash signature of the hash plus plus a certificate and the we're using x509 certificates so what happens when the when Gateway 2 or the or the actor behind Gateway 2 receives this um they have to trust this the certificate Authority um of the certificate so basically it implies that you have a pki system per transaction if you like the sender and the receiver both trust if they don't then you know then the transaction shouldn't go head but that's I know this is kind of out of scope but that's how I would you know see an assertion being sent it's a something is said by this party who is identified in this way um that makes sense yeah that makes sense I think we're on the same page um I think we talked about x59 all the time but that's out scope Anthony and also this other question also oscope but worth mentioning is the SSL connection being set up between the endpoints is going to use some kind of x509 right is that the same x509 used to sign assertion or should it not be right so these are interesting questions that are that we want to do in in the future right for this uh after we do you know good point before we move On's got his hand up and has for a while so RMA thank you your patience oh thanks CL yeah I I was just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "going to uh ask uh go back to the terminology U when question about assertions are I think as as said we can revisit them in the future uh we can I I think there's nothing preventing us from piggybacking assertions on top of the existing thy messages but anyway that was not my main uh comment uh going back to terminology about control of assets I just wonder if he can soften the term of because uh say something to the effect of that control not being absolute I think that's maybe what's bothering Anthony so uh I think the Gateway clearly needs to have control over the process of transfer of a given asset to a designated Gateway I think we cannot avoid that as we discussed in the the mailing list but uh maybe you can say something like the Gateway has limited control rather than an open-ended control of the form which will allow say G1 to just give hand over the asset to G3 for example um so I think that one of the troubles scope wise is um so a couple of things one I think Thomas the the the TLs connection between the two gateways very much is in scope right that is a connection setup for um how how to bring this protocol into a usable form between two gateways but the the fundamental assumptions um that you know we are talking about are that the gateways are in control of an asset in some way so I don't know the right terminology and you guys are welcome to pick whatever term you want um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "whether and and to some extent the assertions that need to be made to show that that Gateway is in control maybe in the legal um aspects which are sort of in the gray dotted spaces up above one of the things we have stated since the creation of this working group is that at least in the beginning we expect that there is um a legal relationship between the two Networks so that there is that trust built in between the two networks that hey um I trust this other network to properly Implement a Gateway in such a way that these transactions are not going to fail and if they do then I have a legal you know contract allowing me to go after them in a in a legal sense of the word or something like that um what you know what we have never uh targeted with at least in the initial version of this is to have you know Network Gateway Discovery for unknown asset networks where you want to just transfer something to somebody that you have no idea what they are right that that is a trust relationship which is not anywhere near scope at the moment so the assertions and other things that are being talked about to a large extent um have to exist to some extent already right we're so like the the notion of trusting a CA to produce um a a signature mechanism like an x509 CT or whatever it might be in order to make signed messages that allow the whole sat protocol to properly conduct the transaction um is sort of equivalent to once these two particular entities and networks agreed with each other that they're willing to to transfer stuff between them and that they have a legal framework behind it then you add the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "root CA to the list of trusted accepted you know entities that's sort of how I see it at a technical level but um the scope becomes interesting there because you know we are making some base assumptions um and I've argued since the beginning we should make sure that those are well documented in the architecture um Anthony go ahead I think the protocol between the gateways would I mean something like Mutual TLS would be ideal for this because Mutual TS um is is is already a you know a very well-used standard it does require um certificates and keys within the Gateway but that is that trust is just about the the passing of messages so in other words I know both both PE both gateways know that they are connecting to um an identifiable server at the other end and then that takes care of the encryption between the two um and where where where it I find it hard is the Gateway itself let's let's say behind the gateway you have a very big Bank like let's take City Bank again um and the Gateway says um this this asset has been locked by City bank and then City Bank defaults um who would you sue the Gateway operator the Gateway operator is to some extent a message passing it's like it's like SMTP I mean if I if I send a you know lious message over email I don't go and look for the SMTP service operator and say you know your live for this slur I'm going I go to the actual"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "sender and the SMTP operator is not responsible for the content of the of the messages it's responsible however if the SMTP operator you know chose to forward my message to some random third person or to somebody who you know could damage me then I would sue the SMTP operator because their role is to accurate convey the message to the other SMTP server that I've nominated in my message and that's what they're liable for they're not liable for the content of the message or for the I mean and I think it should be the same in ASP if Oh Thomas I think go ahead I was gonna say so anon's I think in in a case like Chase the two things so either Chase runs its own Gateway service so so change Chase owns Chase Bank owns the Gateway so they're liable or if Chase is outsourcing the Gateway running to a provider then there is a contract there should be a contract between the provider and Chase saying that that that any sort of mistakes caused by Chase you know that you know transfers liability to the provider the provider is going to turn around and and claim back to chase right so there needs to be a contract between whoever is using the Gateway provider okay so so it's it's not it's not just and also the SMTP may not be the best parallel Anthony because this is not just message passing in the sense of iso 220 this is actually causing changes on the state of the network right this burn and mint sort of model and and it's again it's different from correspondent banking right and it gets more complicated because the other side may not be a bank right the other side could be could be a private blockchain or a public"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "blockchain right so so we're kind of we're always thinking that the other side is not you know uh something traditional like like a like a bank because we know how to deal with banks plenty of contracts you know around there's plenty of banking consortiums that actually share um you know legal Frameworks and so on I'm sorry go ahead Claire I have a question and please please forgive me as chair I should know the answer to this um can we can someone remind me where we got to with the architecture in terms of how the Gateway checks either the asset is locked or locks the asset itself I think initially we said that the Gateway took control of the asset and did the lock itself anyway so it answers that question as to whether or not the bank has s of pseudo locked something and hasn't actually done the lock or did we change that my apologies again for not knowing the answer it's it's it's it's still the same that you know the same model that that the Gateway and Gateway operator is respons responsible for making um you know signing an assertion to the effect that the asset has been disabled remember I used to use the word disabled but that got confusing has been locked in the origin Network right and how how that is proven between the network and the Gateway and so on and so on is out of scope I mean it can't be in scope it's just so many so many options right yeah and thank you for clarifying that I do appreciate that so so Anthony does that sort of part answer your question in at the moment we assume there's a legal relationship between the gateways to say that you know it's not fraudulently sending out a message that something is disabled um but future iterations we might want to look at how the Gateway confirms that that disablement has happened in a way that is um absolute shall we say does that answer your question no I understand that the reason I raised the issue is because it was clear in the documentation that the Gateway Tak extra responsibility for the asset and my point is I don't think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "that's a good idea so um so that that that's the that's the that's the um representation I'm making because I mean if you take for example things like Swift I mean Swift is the messaging layer for obviously very large amounts of money on a on an ongoing basis it doesn't take responsibility for the amounts of money it can't possibly those responsibilities for updating ledgers um lay with the banks themselves and it kind of is a bit similar to a swift transaction it's it's not this is this is beyond a swift transaction part of what we have to do before the um before the working group could was able to be authorized was to prove that there isn't something out there that already answers this problem okay yeah understand that this might even use with messaging as the way the way the gateways each other um in the future but that particular element is is it's not quite robust enough for what we're trying to do here I appreciate the the reference thank you yeah so so the proposition I'm making is that it it shouldn't be mandatory for the gateway to hold the asset but it should um be that it can pass an assertion that somebody else else is holding the asset and that in that case it's not legally liable it's the the recipient of that assertion needs to make their own decision as to whether or not they choose and the legal liability would lie from the the identity that made the assertion so that's my that's that's the proposition I'm making and you know I think I think it's well understood amongst the group it seems to me at this point that that we're all basically saying the same thing in slightly different ways right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "um I don't think anybody is has because we cannot impose technical implementations on on gateways um how they have locked disabled you know taken control of or actually the owner of now right all of those functionally amount to uh the Gateway when it's starting a transaction with another Gateway has made the the essential assertion that I'm in control of it now right that's control being one of the words that's being thrown around whether it's in control by you know legal agreements behind it with uh the actual owner of it whether it's in whether it's actually taken ownership of it and the the um inside the network you know the the original owner trust the gateway to to do so if not they wouldn't have started the transaction um I I will say that I'm not sure that Swift is actually the right analogy either because Swift itself is a network acting with all the gateways in coordination of itself right and know you can't sue Swift but to some extent Swift is more like a single Network um where the asset holders you know each of the banks in the Swift Network are actually the asset holders and they trust the singular Network this is a different case because we're trying to actually connect different networks like you could see Swift having a set Gateway allowing stuff to be transferred to a completely different system um maybe my analog is off there absolutely I think that's a huge use case in that case I think if you were speaking with swift they would say we would never actually control or hold an asset they would just want to be the Gateway function and then have their members take roles um to to secure or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "lock or control assets that would be that's precisely the um you know that's a good use case I mean and you you'll know for example I don't know if you do know that Swift is involved in um an experiment now in in the US called the US RSN where they're taking a Gateway function and I'd love this group to you know basically bring to their attention that this is the way to be doing it would be be fantastic thanks Anthony um uh so let's let Martin talk and then I'm gonna pose a question to the group if I can figure out how to form it thanks just a very brief point on that one that's I think that that analogy makes sense in terms of Swift being the network and and to Anthony's point the gate the gateways would be um analogous to Swift gateways um so in those cases it would be the members operating the gateways and the members um the gateways which means it's fine for those gateways to be in control because the the signatures that are coming out of those gateways and member signatures who are responsible for it rather than the network signatures there's not Swift gateways are always lead back to liability from whoever's operating them it uh thanks very much Martin I appreciate it so um all right so I'm trying to figure out how we can um get out from under uh sort of this conversation into a concrete you know eventual solution um and my thinking is that we've sort of coalesced around I think we've CL around a notion right so really we're really just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "talking about terminology I think that we all agree um that that a network can provide a Gateway that that you know meets its internal needs and two different networks agree that these two gateways are able to that we trust them um because there's sort of an underlying agreement behind that perception so when we are talking in the protocol documentation in the ARG Ure documentation about the gateways are blank of an asset where um it seems to me like control is still uh possibly the right word they have controlled the asset in a way that's made it disabled from transaction internally I mean there's a bunch of other ways that we could phrase that so my I guess my question to the group is it seems to me like most people believe that control is a reasonable terminology for the document authors to use um we don't use own uh that may or may not be true but is control an unreasonable term who who thinks that that is not the right term for talking about how a Gateway um is securing an asset for the transfer securing is not the right word so anybody disagree with control look it's not my favorite but you know as CLA said you know these things evolve and it's you know could be close enough to um eventually just being a sort of pure technical function so I wouldn't object okay um I I think that that that brings us to closure on that so that is good so we just spent 43 minutes on on one word uh that's usually how it goes so all right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "um with that I think that was a really good discussion and I think we've brought a lot of conclusion with um how people are thinking about things um so thank you for all of that um Thomas is there anything else on the architecture document um and I guess the other outstanding question are are there is another round of changes that you want to make before we do a Last Call on it or not uh just just probably the only change from this morning I posted to the mailing list about using the word control instead of own so we could we could just hash that you know on the mailing list it's just one paragraph So it's just it shouldn't take too long and probably the other only other thing is you know if if David if if you're happy with appendix a with all the you know the discussion about threats you know then we could close that one and you know we could do last call uh you know absolutely agree with like you know the comments you have um made on the mailing list about about threats and I think the last comment you made was about the originator user and beneficiary user you know agreeing on some kind of a you know encryption mechanism that's is actually interesting and could be a future work item for the working group but to answer Wes I think this last paragraph about containing the word control is probably the only thing we need to fix before moving to last call for the architecture document uh thanks that's fantastic to hear um Rama sorry real quick uh do do you want to does it make any sense to add control subject to the constraints of the network or you think control byes enough yeah we could do that let's let's put it in the mailing list you know so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "that so that I have in a paragraph I could just cut and paste okay I've got one one last suggestion actually on this if you if you use the phrase demonstrate control that's uh as opposed to just control demonstrate control how do you Dem how do you demonstrate the control well in a number of ways you could actually control it yourself you could hold it um or you could or you you could you have to be able to say to the other side this asset is now is now locked so I'm demonstrating control of the asset so demonstrate the reason I'm pushing back and I'm not I'm you know um it's really up to the working group I'm just trying to narrate the discussion but demonstrate implies the ability to prove it and exactly and and I don't think that there is any technical way to prove that oh prove control well I mean I mean if if for examp I mean you could prove control let's say if you had let's say the Gateway does have its own um address and it's transferred to that address that would be the the ownership model so this is the gate where act act actually holding the asset and you would demonstrate control by um if it were a public blockchain you know saying look it's now at this address here's the transaction um that took it to the address or for a private blockchain you could do a mcal proof of some kind you know that's or that does depend on the on the technology under light you're right so it's BR yeah I just I just want to say that I appreciate the suggestion but I think that would open a whole other discussion about proving that control yeah um so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:04",
    "text": "you could prove it in a number of ways yes but I think proving that control would be out definitely out of scope for satp so I don't think it's worth it for us to go into that discussion at this point okay all right well uh we need to move the meeting along I think that we're at a good point um as another reminder that I probably should have put on one of the introductory slides um nothing is decided concretely in you know verbal meetings like this everything is um you know done on the mailing list and so Thomas has already written up some stuff about the usage of the word control so we'll let that be the um the marker but it to me if um you know the the way the chairs are supposed to read consensuses is is understanding uh the opinions on the mailing list and we'll take that into account but it sounds like the general consensus at least in this meeting is that use of the word control is uh sufficient even though it's not perfect so thank you for that um with that Thomas we only have about 10 minutes left but would you like to shift into um anything you want bring up today maybe one small topic about the core document so so uh I was just going to ask if uh the chairs if we could create an editor subgroup um for core you just the way other working groups you know say okay you know and the purpose is to go through uh some of the issues that are posted on GitHub right so for example there are I think that's six or seven pull requests you know and I think part of this you know editor subgroup would be just to to go through each of these you know issues uh and decide you know is this good is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "this bad does it actually you know changing sentences does it actually make fundamental changes you know to the whole protocol but is that um I mean is that possible way is that desirable uh so that is a great question and the right way to answer that is uh yes and no um so a couple of things when when changes are being made that are editorial anybody that is a document editor um you know we we mix use of the word editor and author all the time in the ATF but but as a reminder the ITF documents that are going forward and progressing through a working group are not in control haha of the of the editors entirely right I've had documents that I was the editor for and and the working group made a decision that I you know thought was wrong um but the consensus of the decision still meant that I had to apply that change to the document so we trust the editors to um to make sure that they're not putting in uh changes that um that are not reflected by the consensus of the working group so as the editors of the document if you feel like a pull request is you know agreed to by you know generally agreed to especially when they're editorial changes um then you can just go ahead and and approve it um as the editor that's your job um if the editors need to talk together to you know come to agreement that hey yeah we we really do believe that all of this is in consensus great um if anybody believes that the editors have made changes to the document that are not in consensus bring it up on the mailing list it's CLA and my job to um to address you know uh issues surrounding disbelief and consensus was actually happened or not um when there seems to be something of a sticky point of well we're not really sure if there's consensus or not then um poke poke the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "chairs and the chairs will have to review everything and and that's sort of one of our primary roles is to declare um that this decision you know where consensus lies and whether there was consensus to make a change or not so hopefully that answers your question but you shouldn't need a a subgroup um the editors are welcome to talk amongst themselves to to make decisions but whether or not a change is exception needs to really be happen you know in the mailing list or in the discussion in a GitHub [Music] thread okay good thanks wiz was for my clarity um change so Port requests to the core documents they shouldn't be made until there's been wider discussion am I correct um new topic just to check the the um the process in umf no no no it's a very good question and so this is actually something we talked about in the very beginning of the creation of the working group but working groups have the discretion among ourselves to figure out where we want to sort of conduct discussions um what we there's a couple of things we can do um one we can allow you know decisions to be made within PLL requests or within issued tickets and things like that or we can sort of mandate that everything happen on the mailing list I would argue that we've already started down the line of um some discussions happen on the on the working group you know trackers um one thing that we can do is I can turn on I have to go find the instructions on how to do it but um we there's actually a tool that will do summary posts to the mailing list about things that have changed in issues or in pull requests so that um there's sort of the the mailing list gets notifications about what's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "happening on the GitHub side of things um but to to answer your question more directly Claire um people making pool requests and editors should really make sure that that uh when a discussion is happening over there that somebody sent a note to the mailing list saying we are in the process of discussing this here and it looks like we're coming to resolution to accept this or whatever um so that we make sure that everybody gets notified that there's a change that's being proposed and made good question I think I think where uh yeah maybe my bad also so so the discussions typically occur through issues right so like anyone can can post an issue but the editors are really the ones that really need to do the the poll requests and and accept changes um um well anybody can comment on a poll request and and I believe um but but the editors are the only ones that can merge it okay okay thanks yeah sorry about that I submitted a pull request I just thought it was a good way of kind of no no no that's actually don't absolutely you are anybody is well is well welcome to make pull requests just recognize that whether it gets accepted or not depends on the consensus of the entire work all right uh Alexandre yeah just conscious of the time so I think it would be good uh to discuss the rest of the proposals in the poll request that Anthony raised um I don't know if it has to be like another interim meeting but it would be good to have a follow-up call um maybe Thomas and U whoever else wants to join so we can go through each of those steps because we had a 40-minute disc discussion on one word here but on that request there are a lot of other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "words that are changed and uh we would like to get this resolved sooner rather than later yeah agreed um I was gonna sorry if you like I can I can summarize what was in the pull request and put it in a put it on the mailing list so why don't why don't we do that for the time being but I but I do think that another um another interim meeting would be good uh please don't hold you know wide Zoom meetings and things like that um uh that's that's where we get into trouble there's a whole ietf process about doing that in fact I even consulted with the ETF lawyers about you know the right way to do design groups and stuff um so my guess is that we can't do it too close to the ietf um and I believe that the next probably easiest day to do it would be June 18th and if we had another meeting which is um you know in three or four weeks if I'm not counting um so June 18th is a Tuesday if this time slot works for everybody um this has been our traditional time slot and if that sounds good uh the chairs can put together a interim meeting request and obviously on the agenda would then be um to discuss the the changes to the core document is the is the primary starting agenda anybody object to that or think that's the wrong approach I think that makes a lot of sense and if we can get a summary out to the working group in the meantime that gives people chance to digest and have an opinion excellent yep yeah exactly it would be good that people come prepared before the next intering meeting um on the topics that we will discuss yeah we would like certainly look to the editors of the document to summarize um ahead of time the reading materials needed to to really understand the discussion that's going to happen that would be very very helpful so all right conscious of time so why don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "we do that any last minute short uh discussions today and yes Thomas please do um or somebody anybody that might have made a poll request or anybody that wants to please do send a note to the mailing list about uh discussions that are active on GitHub that um really should be looked at soon okay we do uh thank you W thank you CLA all right thank you very much everybody uh I think we will go ahead and call this journ since we are just short of the hour by minutes and I should get to the other two meetings I'm In conflict with so um appreciate it all and CLA and I will set up another meeting on the 18th thank you thank you thank you"
  }
]
