[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:29",
    "text": "that one\u0027s just not a problem okay so then I just have to get this set up this is my notes this is the computer for them I don\u0027t know if this boy he\u0027s fun [Music] [Music] [Music] hi folks can can you hear me in the back okay we\u0027re looking for another couple people who want to help with etherpad sign-in go to the ether pad and fill in your name we will start in about two minutes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:15",
    "text": "did everybody have a good lunch find some food that\u0027s anybody go without find good beer any good beer someplace okay I found good sushi hopefully you did we\u0027re gonna start IDR this is the IDR meeting we\u0027re only meeting once we\u0027re running until three o\u0027clock 3:30 okay so folks we don\u0027t have a real packed agenda you can come to the mic and discuss things I am going to note that there is the note well that you may have read this before but please read it again that everything that is said here that you say in a working group or any buff if you say it at the mic it\u0027s tender the IPR rules and these contributions are subject to our c-53 78 and RFC 81 79 now I am going to go over RC 81 79 because we had a little hiccup in our one of our working group processes this last month that was the late IPR discussion so I\u0027ll go through in case someone missed how to do that it\u0027s always good to refresh RFC 81 79 and all of these contributions should adhere to the best practice so let\u0027s go through the IDR agenda and do our agenda bashing that means don\u0027t come up and bash the chair that would be not nice but everything else our agenda John is not here this week ji-dong is kindly helping me Ignace is kindly providing scribing thank you to both of them she is our secretary we\u0027re going to do a gender bashing and chair slides part of the chair slides is did we get all the drafts sent forward that you asked for have we missed anything so pay attention in case your draft needed to go forward and we missed it and then I\u0027ll go through the IPR because we had a late discussion and then we\u0027re going to go through existing drafts g√ºnther congestion control bgp extensions for PC discovery then we\u0027re going to go through new work which is a BGP model the link state and some segment routing was there anything else that we should add to this notice this is a light agenda you\u0027ll probably end up with extra time so don\u0027t have a problem with comments okay comments questions bashing Samuel and working groups are great after lunch okay this is a Mia "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:19",
    "text": "Copa from your chairs we have been swamped by life outside John and I are both encountering some unusual things usually we trade terms and John\u0027s a very good co-chair with me he usually picks up the slack or I pick it up with him but we\u0027re in the most most in the midst of waves and G and other people are helping us but if we\u0027ve missed something John and I humbly apologize but tell us what we\u0027ve dropped we\u0027re trying to catch things up okay these are the drafts that are past working group last call my understanding is that Alvaro was also having one of his transitionary times with having switched jobs so he has two of the drafts of the rsd which have been there for over a hundred and twenty days so they went to him before last ITF and they\u0027re still sitting there Mia Copa on Alvaro\u0027s part he promises that when he returns he will work on it there are five dress awaiting Shepards report it is my intent to sit down in the bar and just get through the Shepards reports these next couple days ah there is one Shepherd report we could really use some help one of these are my RFC 5575 this probably if you would like to be a shepherd on any of these drafts that\u0027s a position to which your chairs will buy beer thanks and very good things but otherwise we\u0027d really like help and I\u0027ll try to clear these Shepherd reports within two weeks John\u0027s got half of it done and so he\u0027s really prepared a lot of things okay early allocations these are the ones we think we did I checked them in the repositories did we miss any if so send a note to the chairs and we\u0027ll try to get those done again send it to me today and I will try to send it to the I Anna and Alvaro this week and see if we can get some progress please read it these slides are all online thanks Gigi okay working group action we have two working group last calls in progress both of those were requested by other working groups the trill is in progress there\u0027s some people who said they wanted to comment this week so we\u0027ve left it open the BGP extended messages I just started off today that fell between the time when John and I both got overwhelmed by stuff so Thank You Randi and other co-authors care for the patients I don\u0027t have any adoption calls John went through the adoption calls and asked people and they all said well we\u0027re going to make a little change if you wanted an adoption call if you would "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:19",
    "text": "just and we missed it please send a note to the list and I will during this meeting I will summarize those and send out a draft a list of actions like I did last idea we got a lot of good feedback these are the thought things that last time that\u0027s the pointer to the last ITF action list these are the following that adoption calls but they didn\u0027t seem to get any further response if you still want them and there are a couple there that are we ready for last call John checked on this segment routing ones and they said they were going to work on it if there\u0027s something we\u0027ve missed please let us know do you have any questions okay cheers slides are always okay the IPR rules okay one of the wonderful duties of a chair is to repeat IPR rules when we have problems so let me go through the basic IPR proper rules the problem and then solutions that other working groups of taking John and I tend to trust you all you\u0027ve you know you guys run them Internet you do a really good job and we tend to trust so I\u0027d like to continue in the trust model and not the model that other working groups may take so let me go through the RFC 81 89 and hopefully I\u0027ve not transposed that number it was the one you saw earlier has IPR disclosures that can either be made by the author someone contributing or knowing that someone else\u0027s technology is impinging on their patent voluntary disclosures of well they told me there were some IPR there and that\u0027s how it gets put in now there is an RFC that specifies if you don\u0027t behave well in disclosing IPR there can be sanctions so look at RFC 7001 again John and I would prefer not to him but those sanctions include taking an author off a draft if it\u0027s an author base they include taking a draft out of Internet standard and moving it someplace else so it\u0027s all about timing the the phrase that\u0027s used is reasonably possible after the contribution is exhibition when the technology has changed and you add a pan I PR or when the the whole purpose behind of this is to make sure that people are informed when they agree to a standard do you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:19",
    "text": "know that has IPR if you know and you agree wonderful working group and many times IDR will say that\u0027s great there is I PR licensing that is discussed in this hour of see the licensing terms are not required in the IPR declaration to the working group if you want to put them on the website most companies or individuals will put them on the IPR website the terms suggested are reasonable non-discriminatory these terms are not to be discussed in the working group okay lastly here\u0027s our problem draft ITF IDR BGP optimum route reflection had a late IP our discussion when I come to working group last call and we\u0027re two weeks into working group last call and about to close it that\u0027s a very late IP our discussion that almost borders into the cases in the RFC\u0027s for some sort of action but the good news is we asked all of you and this mail message and said do you think it\u0027s a problem nobody responded and John and I will often said say something if you think it\u0027s a problem the duty of an oven chair one of my wonderful duties I\u0027ll make a face at that is to say in a working group that you did this and that nobody really said anything if you think there\u0027s a problem with this please come talk to myself and G as John\u0027s a person or talk to Ignace and he will Fordyce to us because this is part of the call that\u0027s referenced in all of these RFC\u0027s okay so when does IDR give IPR and IDR and we generally trust you John and I like to deal in a world of trust the time that you get asked is when you have working adoption of an individual contribution and working group last call you know and we also don\u0027t do what other working groups do and they do an IPR call before they\u0027ll start the last call mostly you all are really good about coming to IPR responses and so we tend to do it in parallel because it saves us time we\u0027d like that John and I would like to continue this approach we have a video except Betty Pat day yes that was Latin folks trust but verify we would like not to get to the trust but verify before we enter it so this is the cheerful discussion that the chair gets to make after a late disclosure if you didn\u0027t like this disclose frequently any questions on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:21",
    "text": "this was anyone concerned with this draft okay let the record show there was no one saying anything Ignace that\u0027s one thing I have to have thank you okay we will go to the next presentation hello everybody so oh wow feel like a rock star almost I\u0027ll try this one not a problem so the reason actually I asked this particular slot here is because once you know when we create this document we went from a certain assumption that the readable label depth you know the main use case was actually to you know to actually use it for entropy and that is a fundamental assumption we actually made so just a minute can people hear Gunter in the back is it or is it soft thank you thank you so now over time you know it looks like there may be other use cases that can use you know the readable label depth so something when I\u0027m you know trying to assess with this particular you know slot here is to understand that the simplification what we have made by contracting and putting and both of them together into a single you know signaling BGP LS is you know if the simplification is good enough you know to justify the restriction which is imposed so let\u0027s have a quick look into it so at the end of this session what I would like to you know a shave is do you know to learn from you on you know to separate you know the entropy label capability again from the readable label depth so that we can actually allow more use cases towards the future or that we will keep the eld you know entropy readable layer you know label depth itself let\u0027s have a quick look so the concept is simple and so the adult did readable label depth is something that you signal the router signals to you know in BGP LS to say like a you know you know if I get a packet in these are the amount of labels I can actually read and do something with the entropy label capability you know is a router signaling you know through you know it\u0027s mechanisms say like okay I can do entropy and I understand entropy label from it so that is it so the way they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:25",
    "text": "are be used in IAS and in OSPF you know in the IDPs is they\u0027re like two independent you know indicate it\u0027s a so the readable label depth is sent independently from the interview label capability so they\u0027re like two different signals here so what we have done with the beach pls is we set okay you know you know if the only use case for the readable label depth is to you know have awareness of that for entropy then why do we need to have these two signals so we can sort of like put them together so instead of signaling you know independently the aroldi and signaling independently the entropy label capability we sort of gluten together and we said okay if you actually receive you know the the entropy cable readable label depth then you know that the amount of labels you read and at the same time you know that is what you can use for entropy also so that is the assumption we made that is what is in the document right now and even though the document you know is in a fairly you know fine state we have not actually asked for any earlier locations or whatever because I was you know I wasn\u0027t really sure that was the right thing to do so what I\u0027m actually verifying here is you know if the assumption we make is the correct one because if you look into you know how technology has progressed there seems to be like another you know use case emerging here which has to do with like alternate marking where you start using some of these potential you know MPLS labels and you use them not for entropy but we you actually use them for passive performance measurements so that\u0027s a different use case so knowing that know is the assumption we made that we actually know signal you know entropy and readable label that in a single parameter it is still valid yes or no so that\u0027s actually what I would like to ask you know and any thoughts on this particular you know element so itself yes [Music] so so initial use case was indeed entropy levels so what I see being published for accounting and some other things would require additional pair of labels being pushed and not only pushed on ingress but also read in the transit so I think this work is becoming more relevant more important to be able to figure out if accounting is mandatory how deep should it go so I wouldn\u0027t say it\u0027s really belongs in PC computation but awareness of how deep I can go read and create forwarding state and counter associated with it it\u0027s quite important so so so what so just to confirm then so what you\u0027re saying is that you have a preference for signaling the readable label depth and then have like independent like you know big parameters kind of thing like you know this can be used for entropy labels this can be used for marking this can to segment it up like that or hard or how do you see this and it should be after Prairie to decide "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:25",
    "text": "so usually you\u0027re kept up where you could read is limited so you should be able to choose whether you want to use it for entropy or maybe counters are mandatory so it\u0027s essential to distribute this information again you\u0027ve got limited amount of Micra caught in the stage right so I think exposing capability is given operator to choose but they wanna use my readable space for it\u0027s important yes so but the thing is that you know you can actually signal the readable space but at the same time you signal the capability of the router to do something with it and have to do something with it is you know to actually use for entropy to use the passive marking to use it for something which maybe it\u0027s not being documented yet in most cases it\u0027s kind of gnostic you\u0027ve got amount of microcode you do single pass you fetch and you do something so what it does is it\u0027s less important than how deep you could go okay Stephanie from Orange speaking Escoto of the mpls spring and hopi label draft so based on the discussion we had in Chicago so we concluded that this aroldi notion that we first defined was not enough because we did not add the knowledge about the ability of the router to really read the entropy label within visceral Gianna\u0027s that\u0027s why we concluded that this energy which became now the entropy aroldi is something that includes the ability to read the entropy label within this amount of label so yes the conclusion is if we have this definition of Araby as it is defined today in via MPLS document we don\u0027t need anymore the entropy label capability because it\u0027s included in the definition so here all day actually is in a particular connect okay cool and I can adjust export that in this okay so in my opinion the IGP draft should also be moved to this definition so not having this error d+ e LC but having a single reality to be consistent so okay so what I\u0027ve here done is you know probably more steady for the future but the IGP stuff should be including this change than this we may see in the future I don\u0027t know some other use case that may involve energy but for other use case of entropy Labor\u0027s in in this case we may have other energy values to be advertised but eld is really sticked to entropy label okay cool thank you I trying to chill cool I was gonna just say that conceptual you can imagine in the spring use case that the controller can make more intelligent traffic engineering optimizations depending on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:26",
    "text": "the readable way to Google death and not require the deployment of entropy levels so it seems that having there was separate signaling mechanisms might be useful I didn\u0027t catch the last part so you like them to be or like in one parameter I\u0027m sure I didn\u0027t hear your response sorry so you like them to peace so I didn\u0027t actually yesterday I think it was us or in single yes that they would be separate I think would be valuable things should the controller could basically still use the readable label depth without actually the appointment of entropy labels okay so I just heard like two completely opposite references okay interesting so I heard like two different you know positions here and I still don\u0027t know how to progress so any indication maybe from the chairs on on how to tackle this one to keep it as aroldi like we have right now and then the document is nearly complete and we can go further with like you know earlier tasking early code requirements or we actually you know plate it up again you know it\u0027s relatively easy to do the progress you know to make the modifications but only I would desire to do them only once vinter there there did you want to cope with for that because I\u0027ll I\u0027ll let you talk you had something to say so practically you should be following a GP shouldn\u0027t be inventing your own stuff in this case you\u0027re really the transport for was being distributed by GPS don\u0027t don\u0027t go ahead just be able to transport for a GP had to say be transparent okay yes definition yeah I agree we need to have this consistency between VI GP and BGP and this this must be defined within the MPLS document so if there is any question regarding this this must be addressed within the MPLS working group in my opinion okay I think it makes sense yes yes I echo the request to let the I GPS figure out what they\u0027re going to do publish that and then have BG pls follow along mirroring that without introducing any logic different from just repeating what the a-gps did so that\u0027s a third opinion them no this is the same opinion as expressed by Jeff and Stefan okay I believe that yes I think I answer them so that would be my personal preference for that I think I think that\u0027s what you\u0027re hearing from the rest of the people is believe all the follow it with the IG piece and leave it that way yeah which actually means like document is almost ready then also so when you\u0027ve double-checked that yep just a legend "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:27",
    "text": "rest on the list or send me a note even today we\u0027ll start things off cool thank you yes gate until our liquor Cisco so this labeled EPS could we look at doing them as MSD subtypes instead of separately advertising them we have MS Joe what you\u0027re saying but there is an MSD draft maximum segment depth that\u0027s what you can push and the adult is what you can read correct but good day could be used the same as a subtype no actually we decided to come and also give them quite separated because that\u0027s what is happening everywhere else so so you and Sue discussed a conclusion could you repeat the conclusion you came to about what to do in this case my personal opinion was exactly you and Jeff follow the iGPS I love Vig peas home right but the other day and he asked me was to uplevel that as far as when he could go to a drafted option I said when he\u0027s checked things and he\u0027s ready send me and we\u0027ll we\u0027ll do that the other question was how does he get input from the rest of the world please float this to the mailing list because we don\u0027t have everyone here this ITF because of the distance so they make sure he gathers all the right but so you heard personal opinion process how to get in pin right and you\u0027re asking about adoption is that correct that\u0027s right so working group last call right there for the conclusion I believe is wrong that you should let this sit for as long as it takes for the iGPS and mpls to figure out what they need to do do not advance this that is my recommendation so um yeah this was probably not gonna be the only draft which is gonna be impacted then I guess that I couldn\u0027t understand then I guess this is not the only draft you know which is you know following that sort of recommendation they\u0027re probably more beach pls you know documents out there which can be you know used to export certain IGP you know attributes okay but you\u0027ve asked our opinion on this specific one Stefan has said it\u0027s still very much in a state of flux so you need to wait that\u0027s that\u0027s the opinion that I\u0027m expressing just regardless of other issues for this case let the document wait until it is solidified in MPLS and iGPS "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:28",
    "text": "no okay there\u0027s not it\u0027s not in pending so the authors of the IGP drafts are in the room each should take as long as 15 minutes to do the job but besides it so as part of talking on behalf of MSD authors we\u0027ve created separate I on a registry for MSD types so rather than creating and we discuss proposal before rather than creating separate registry it could cause MSD subtype and reference it from this document and I mean it would be logical to me but it\u0027s really up to you Stefan again regarding the mpls document so there was a last call walking or plastic or without one year ago which failed but we normally fixed all the issues so I expect a new working hopeless coal to be to be sent and maybe the good idea is to wait for all this working group last call and ensure that we are working up concerns to to ensure that we can hog I see a GP and send bgp documents is there someone here from the OSPF or is is group that knows the status from that on this work in that group okay thank you for the input that was very useful for the trip hello everyone my name is Jin Chen Li from 10 mobile today I\u0027d love to update my craft carry congestion theatres in media community that is now version 6 in some circumstances we need to know the link congestion stirrers especially for the interesting links here the link congestion severe stators includes the link band well and if utilization egress here engineering using BT be labeled unique health protocol needs this kind of information to eight am just draw trust to to do traffic engineering our interests beings in constraint multiple passes across from France t√©l√©com I wanted to use the link congestion information as a metric to select the appropriate path among motivated passes their purpose what to do proactive reaction to the congestion events to aid "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:30",
    "text": "a router to perform an equal cost load bars you know Cisco introduced in Japan well attended community to Korea\u0027s cost to reach the eternal BT neighbor this that the cost could be either convict or derived from the Penguins of the active link let me use this paper to show the general benefit of knowing the congestion theaters for the big via speaker within one is a router seven and Roger age here are their internal BGP peers in autonomous a of system a the congestion status of the Earthlings the peers in turn can steer some outgoing traffic towards the last loaded active Inc for Big B speakers across multiple yes due to cost our network performance a si prefers SB to access es si si si can guarantee as director at the links between himself and its neighbor not conducted through a link capacity pension in time but if the acting between a lot to and jobs three it\u0027s congested si should steer some ASE access traffic to the link between rod one and job states for Fortune mobile our province networks want to use this kind of information to do a South Korean load balance our network quality is similar to she was just to this paper si is our province Network SB is our backbone Network when the exceeding an ESD is the the network operated by other carriers if the link between if the user actually of backbone network just yet our province network should dsm traffic to to to the direct at absolutely encourage the province network "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:33",
    "text": "according to the comments and suggestions in the Middle East and in the previous mediums we provides several solution alternate she was in in current version solution one is two years dependent community we need a new tab for or we need new sub tab for for the Octavia community we have presented this this delusion sometimes a strawberry is the size over the bandwidth field we can only as an idea for this do you choose the limited space solution to is to use a large community it seems that we have no way to to to to to to divan a sub tab of large community to be the congestion as the virus community so this this Trojan ship to be invisible and for a solution straight to your community container community container it it was pair with flexible encoding format at present own and help one is defined for for white community and we want to give out another one for the congestion status community with the 38 encoding formats show its favor [Music] because we have enough space so in this Trojan wouldn\u0027t defend the bandwidth field as as for obvious so as unit can be millisecond can be million bits per second because the congestion seeders allele is dynamic we have to take some considerations when we use this feature in the field network in this version we given some considerations to avoid suit oscillation to a traffic to avoid traffic oscillation and to avoid fraud in loops please read the data for 40 rows manage them through to Bruno for the for his constructive suggestions to improve this structure in this version we also update the security "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:33",
    "text": "considerations the beach be receiver has the right to trust their contestants leaders community or not we provide several deploying deployment models for example the BGP receiver may choose to only trust the congestion theaters communities generated by some specific autonomous systems and you can huge the congestion status communities at the border of your customer has all the ones you receive or katya and you can record the community as you received or time money a monitor as the congestion in theaters our probiem it helped inconsistent and choose to not trust their the the sorceress with otherwise the fake news foreigner a requirements solution one need new sub tab for the Italian community intrusions three need a new new tab for a community container so for this medium we do not want to talk more about the details of the solution what we want is to justify our purpose and the problem and the final solution can be can be computer and improved after this world is an object by the working group so I think the problem we want to solve is clear and some corrosion our alternatives are all right there so I think this work should be considered to be accepted accepted as working group that\u0027s all thank you rubber traffic Bloomberg I have a question so how do you plan to deal with the case when you have not one but n different links between to ASB ours and single ebgp session let\u0027s say we\u0027ve disabled connected check and on all of those things utilization is different one is twenty percent one is eighty percent because they were hashing is bad let\u0027s say so how do you signal this particular scenario in your proposal you mean yes ER has several Exeter Dean\u0027s right yes be ours there\u0027s no one link but in links because of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:33",
    "text": "bandwidth requirements and all our l3 not lag so euro for the accidents we we use vandal so to do the to do is load balancing on euro we do not use a separate here to being seeing was exiting like anyway you can see this is your in back to work okay you don\u0027t I can answer that question basically this solution works for the different peers for the multiple links for the same bit recession passing this is the ability of this part [Music] Boadicea for Deutsche Telekom I wonder I wonder whoever actually the description of what the semantics of this are supposed to be is sufficient kind of the idea of having some indication of load and congestion on several paths to be an important input for routing decisions is clear but when one defines a specific coding scheme to signal that I think I think the ideas of well okay how to how to how to derive well okay that\u0027s partly done in the in the draft how to derive the actual signal from observations and what to do when you see the signaling I think I think needs to be done and while okay the considerations on oscillation quite certainly are kind of crossing that\u0027s a territory but kind of that does not that does not look like anything that allows to prove that oscillation can be avoided cannot happen rather while okay let\u0027s see and observe and then and then and then fix whatever we implementation and configuration is in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:34",
    "text": "the complex in the complex interworking of bgp systems ah that does not look like real convincing approach to me though it has been taken in the past once in a while I have to admit I would recommend you take a couple of these examples to the list and to get more feedback I would recommend you take a couple examples like Robert\u0027s example or another one to the list and see if you can at least hear what people are are saying about it so I would recommend you provide a couple examples of your proposal to the list and have a discussion that simplest [Music] hello hello yeah so this is true on behalf of my quarters I\u0027m presenting the PC discovery wire BGP so this draft has been presented in the PC working group in the past so we also wanted the inputs from the IDR and that\u0027s why for the very first time I guess we are presenting in this working group as well so the idea here is that in in the PC architecture we have a path computation element which does the path computation and you have the client which requested what happens is we would like the PC e\u0027s to be discovered by the client automatically and this concept has been there in the PC architecture for the longest time and along with the piece of protocol the IGP discovery mechanism was published long ago those are the five zero eight eight and five zero eight nine RFC\u0027s but as we can imagine that this works when they participant the both the entities are participating in the same IGP so of course the PC discovery mechanism does not work in some of the cases like when we are doing inter domain path computation and you have two different pcs part of two different AAS and there is difficulty in discovering that relationship automatically mostly this needs to be configured within the PCE we also have a concept of Hirai keys so sometimes the top level PC which is the parent PC and child PC may be not participating in the same ijp or they might not be even even be nigp at that layer so how do we discover usually you have stick to configurations at that time and at that time we did not have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:35",
    "text": "something like BGP LS as well when we were thinking of the same problem now we have a BGP LS and because of BGP LS there is a relationship between the PCC is exporting the topology to maybe a PC which is also a BGP speaker and receiving this topology information via BGP LS so now the question also answered can we reuse the same relationship that exists the same BGP session also to advertise the PCE information back to the PCC so that\u0027s the basic motivation and little bit of history behind this work in the PC working group so basically there are two modes either the PC and bgp speaker are co-located which in an SDN controller centralized controller world is pretty common that the same box is implementing both functionality so it can use the bgp session to advertise or to let people know where the pc is what is the characteristics of these pcs etc now in some cases if there is a PC and bgp of are two different entities and they have this own mechanism of how they are learning it the main idea is between BGP speakers are you where the BGP LS session exists we can also advertise the PC information and how do we advertise this we\u0027ll cover and then we can also reuse some of the BGP policy mechanisms to say on which session should be advertised on which session is shown where also the BGP helps us much better than a simple IGP way of doing this right so that\u0027s the over overview how do we how are we gonna do this we propose a new PC and lri and inside this PC and lri you have like any other you have the protocol ID you have the identifier and then the descriptor which is the address of the PCE the rest of the everything is in the similar bgp LS way of doing things that you have tlvs and these tlvs are kind of aligned to how the IGP tlvs are defined in five zero eight eight and five zero eight nine so the the main idea is you need to know the IP addresses of where the PCE is and which is the which IP address that the PC prefers to be used when you are connecting a session to it so that\u0027s the descriptor apart from that we want to also know what is the attributes of these pcs that is what kind of POD computation it is able to do and this semantics is already defined in is a Sandoz PF so we reuse the same form and capability is what is the capability of PC whether it can do for instance stateful computations whether it can do multicast in P 2 and P computations things like that the domain information as well as the neighboring domain informations all this information can be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:37",
    "text": "added and of course these are optional information as well so this is the overall like encoding part of especially from the BGP point of view this data is completely an application data it doesn\u0027t impact DGP forwarding or forwarding State or routing State in any particular way we would expect that that there would be a policy that will play an important role in deciding when this information can leave a particular domain whether we want to expose it and that\u0027s where the policies can help quite a bit and overall if from the BGP point of view do we thinks that this information will have any operational issue ideally the PCE information is quite stable it\u0027s not something that changes that much in a in a network you have the PC address PC capabilities those things are quite stable information so adding that information into this protocol we don\u0027t see operationally as a too much of a make a constraint on the BGP protocol overall and the Bhairavi basically we feel that this is not trying to replace the existing mechanism the 5 0 88 5 0 89 has a complete place within the domain within the area when the both the parties up are part of the same I GPI GP is the preferable way to advertise this information but when that is not the case can a GP be used specially if the BGP LS session already exists and you are expecting translating some traffic engineering and other related information on the same session so we have discussed this in PC we also wanted to bring it to idea working group and get some eyes from the BGP point of view that what we are doing is correct and if there are any comments we are here to listen to you I get ontological Cisco one thing I noticed in the draft is for the encoding you point to the ISS but actually the TL VZ in ISS and OSPF are different so it may make sense to actually define them or have the right sizes ISS has one byte type length OSPF s to EG p LS generally follows OSPF 2x4 right - in BGP LS 2 bytes will check I\u0027ll handle that issue not a problem and the other thing is the solution and the use cases scenarios that you mentioned in your slides this is not really covered or explained in the draft so I think it will be good if you could describe these scenarios and the use cases okay they\u0027ll make the document that very well it comments actually one of the reasons why we did not be in PC we have a document which gave the requirements for discovery and when they wrote this requirement I don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:39",
    "text": "know ages ago at that time also they said that IGP is the one but in future BGP could be explored and when it can be explored these are the these are the higher-level points that need to be considered and we but at that time bt pls did not exist we were never using that so did not make sense so but I kinda I agree we will revisit refer where we can of an existing document and if some things from BGP LS point of view which did not exist back then we definitely need to add into the document now right so what the ID please cover was you know within a specific area or the IGP domain wide s level but now we are getting in scenarios which are interests and things like that so I think are you concerned about specific scenarios that you thought like not into Worth are you concerned about flow yes so there is a you know kind of redistribution going from IGP to BGP there and then spread out across BGP again so I just wanted to get some mood would be good through those scenarios this is something that is something that would you should propose the scenarios you\u0027re concerned with on the idea list you should respond that\u0027ll teach you some of the feedback also going through some of the scenarios on the list will help you get the right feedback thank you thanks for your comment okay okay okay this work is pursuant to the revised datastore loan work we\u0027re so in this talk I will be doing some chair hat on and then some chair head off an honor author hat on the other authors decided not to share the square with me and so I will try to clearly delineate otherwise we thought the square would be a little crowded Kerr Patel and Mahesh really did a lot of the heavy lifting here I\u0027ve done a lot of the Senate sanitation checks to see that it aligned with our work that we\u0027ve done over the last three to four years on BGP modeling so what is this this is the draft MKS it\u0027s Mukesh here and so it\u0027s really a revised data store version of our of our current model which was based on open config we have a problem in the ITF they\u0027ve decided to move to revised data stores for new data models the original data model from open config after lots of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:39",
    "text": "discussion discussion in the net mod group is not going to go be adopted and when we\u0027ve talked to the open config people who authored the structure in the original BGP model they\u0027ve got a lot of deployments two different models two different decisions people looking at at different ways and ITF has gone one way and open config is gone the other this of course is brings me to angst discouragement whatever because there\u0027s a lot of deployment and IDR and John and I believe in deployment learning and we always like to interoperable specifications well the open config have 10 or 15 so this general ideas is worked out fairly well on the data models so we\u0027re honest struggle here we\u0027ve got a lot of deployment a lot of good thought a lot of good operator input and here we\u0027ve got two in non workable models two different ways to look at state both valid but different so just to give you a little bit of input the draft on that mod revise data stores might put MTU has a set excuse me they let me take a step back our current model has a candidate and a startup and you put it into running and that goes into some sort of intended and it gets installed in operations the revised data stores allows for dynamic config data stores and that could be done in VMs and it can be a ephemeral like the IR 2\u0027s has been working on it can bring in system state it can bring in other things this revised data stores allows all that to happen and is a good thing to go forward with with VMs or a ephemeral state or other things we know we want to do the open config model has config and config state where you actually denote inside the variables therefore they\u0027re just not going to mix that\u0027s just a little explanation of why they\u0027re different same information different way to lay it out so here\u0027s a proposed solution we\u0027re going this is okay chair hut on with proposed solution there this is most of that\u0027s been a discussion as a co-author on both drafts what\u0027s different and why I could be happy with both drafts I care and I have reviewed the models to see that they contain the same information they\u0027re in different formats but we wanted them to be equivalent not the same but equivalent the word "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:40",
    "text": "movement is important so our thought and this is something I\u0027ve had long discussions with our routing ad alvaro is not here but we you you can talk to them or myself for alia or Deborah about this as well is to actually publish the open config model it won\u0027t go as standard but to provide it as an informational draft because there are a lot of people are using it and it\u0027s a good piece of work and then to move the revised data store model Ford because that\u0027s the only one that we\u0027re allowed to that that our ADEs field should go forward and that\u0027s what the net mod working group so we\u0027ve created this draft with Mahesh\u0027s help and cares help and my review that does that this has the idea that we\u0027d like to publish it well then I ran into the problem that Lu hi Lu mentioned this morning that we have want to publish both models simultaneously well because we don\u0027t have versioning Lu we can\u0027t say version one of BGP model was the old one we adopted and the next we have to rename them so we\u0027ve got to deal with that particular piece but other than that we could rename them we could rename the old one to bgp ITF bgp OC for open config and the other one to ITF bgp now this is the thing that we\u0027re sort of stepping stone before we do any additional features again chair hat on it seemed fair and respectful to the open config people to give them an equivalent ITF revised data store model that they could go and work with in their environments we\u0027ve tried to keep most of the variables the same however they can\u0027t be totally the same because there\u0027s this - state requirement in open config at that point still chair hat on would be the time we would derivate and you would allow upgrades now I don\u0027t know how the ADEs will handle upgrades to open config but it is an open value it is hopeful that we could create an ID our github repository and put the gang up there for both this is just one way to go forward it is just a way you can get the github for open config openly and the revised datastore would go by the way the reason I mentioned putting it up and github this was an encouragement from Benoit to have working groups put their yang models up in github Robert did I miss anything from our discussion Rob Wilson Cisco so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:41",
    "text": "just one comment about the namespace issue that given that the sorry Isabella so go to the namespace issue given that the open conflict models that people implementing actually use the open coffin namespace it sort of doesn\u0027t matter what namespace you use for the open confi models in terms what you put in that draft because that\u0027s not what people actually implement they\u0027ll actually always implement the open config namespace so if you do use a different name for that you don\u0027t have any versioning issue you just split them automatically because there\u0027s no issues there ok let me repeat because I\u0027m not hearing quite as well that that\u0027s the room that you the open config model and the revised data store model have to have different names it but but it\u0027s not when you publish this informational model and you an ITF namespace that\u0027s not what people will be implementing they\u0027ll be implementing the open config one yes is open confi namespace so it\u0027s open so one thing suppose you put in the draft sort of doesn\u0027t really matter because nobody\u0027s going to actually ever implement that particular version with that namespace ish I think if I sorry my head here me either okay I think the question is you referring to the original ITF draft or BGP right and the name of the model within the namespace that was written with the ITF namespace true yes no one implemented at least no known implementations are known at this time so but if you want to publish it even as an informational draft we have to give it a name space and that name space would be ideas but you could call it ITF BGP open config that\u0027s what that was my suggestion call it idea you know IPF BGP open config that\u0027s fine yeah so that\u0027s what there\u0027s a couple of different points the first is if they have different names you don\u0027t have a versioning problem they\u0027re not related you have you you don\u0027t have a name you don\u0027t have a versioning problem they have different paths there are different models or modules they\u0027re just not related the other question which is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:43",
    "text": "little more concerning to me is is the point that was made that I think we just heard some agreement from from people at the mic including yourself is that no one should go implement the OSI version so if no one should go implement it why are we publishing it what I heard is is that there are multiple implementations of an open config model within the open config namespace no it it came from IDR it what it is currently the IDR BGP model we are switching off with it all right well if you expect people to implement it sure then a couple shit then go ahead and publish it no problem it just means that Rob Wilton\u0027s comment was not accurate yes okay but that\u0027s fine but the Bolton\u0027s the question is so the room is have people implemented the open confi model with the open config namespace or have they implemented the IETF draft that is that you was gonna put them I will let you know it\u0027s currently unimplemented works doesn\u0027t compile well the reason it doesn\u0027t compile is is because it doesn\u0027t compile within the ITF context if you bring in a whole bunch of things from open config and modify them a specific way you can\u0027t get it well even then actually it will not because it well open config has now moved to their own type definitions so here\u0027s turn thank you so okay patel Arcis I think to answer Rob and Lou\u0027s question there are implementations but they are purely open config based and if you take open configs model as they are and you compile them there are no compilation issues right so if you take them then I I think I know Wenders we have implemented it maybe a variant of that part along so I\u0027m gonna up level this for just one moment the reason why us you might ask why do why would I like to see it published here because the BGP selections inside that model are wise they pick some really I\u0027m not talking about the model but the BGP content the choices they made in BGP are wise and that\u0027s the piece that I want to make sure we have a copy to be respectful of where we got the IP are from that made these wise bgp choices and then we have the other otherwise I feel like we\u0027re taking their work without credit and that\u0027s that would be in my estimation non respectful of all the contributions they have made yes okay so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:43",
    "text": "so one but then in that case it might be better rather than publishing actual the models yeah models in that informational draft to publish references to the particular version of the open confi model you\u0027re saying is people should adopt and use and standardize or or implement effectively would that not be better rather than creating a third model in a different name space it creates more confusion okay so there\u0027s another option let\u0027s take that off lines John could Erin Mahesh did you understand where that was going we should just take that one off boy I basically had the same comment I just wanna agree like there\u0027s no I don\u0027t understand why we would publish a new name space in the ITF space if we\u0027re progressing in informational drafts and can just reference the open config model directly I\u0027m not sure what the purpose would be to be in the IETF name space if it\u0027s in okay I guess I must I\u0027m gonna take a step back it seemed reasonable because people came and gave their contributions at IDR and had ported for it I will take this to lists as far as a decision whether we publish both so one flew again one modification to Rob\u0027s proposal is to publish the work but not publish it as a full model say these elements were very important for us at building our model so here\u0027s the here\u0027s the structures that we\u0027re using the containers the portion and just publish that as informational but not as a compilable module and then that way you one recognize the work that was done to ensure that you don\u0027t have all the reference problems that we\u0027re still grappling with because it\u0027s a it was an IETF contribution you can use it and you don\u0027t end up with a compile module which really no one going to use that\u0027ll confuse people so maybe there\u0027s a middle ground there okay thank you for that input here in here one last comment Patel I think it is important that we go ahead and publish this maybe as an informational odds of some sort the only reason being there are shipping implementations that can be referred this is an important point let\u0027s go again it\u0027s are the shipping implementations within the ietf namespace or the open config names we said this document would not would be in the ietf namespace not the open config namespace we can\u0027t publish an open config document I think we need to take blue I think we need to talk offline on this apparently we have plenty Ruettiger if you had input please give input I just we were designing on the fly and the people who are working on it ought to go off and figure out our life together but if you have good input you probably will tell us well I\u0027m getting I\u0027m getting confused what I what I wonder and I\u0027m not sure whether that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:44",
    "text": "it has any relevance e is well okay publishing stuff is fine publishing stuff about stuff that has been implemented is even better however however after talking with people recently I learned that some vendors have their own models that they implement and then they are doing mapping or transformation of models and I wonder I wonder whether the stuff yet you want to publish actually you are going as far as explaining how the mapping and the transformations actually work if not well okay it\u0027s nice to have a publication and make sure and make sure that the audience of the documents don\u0027t get too much confused about the various models that are in the space okay I you\u0027ve given me even more information thank you very we\u0027ll take it under advisement both within the discussion to here with the authors and other people whether it\u0027s reasonable to publish the open config we will go forward with an adoption call for the MKS draft since that\u0027s a revised datastore and you will stay stuff on the list once I get enough advice on the publishing of the old document but we do need to move chair head on to this revised datastore does anybody have any problems question for the room from the chair does anybody have any problems going for an adoption of this revised datastore model so I have a question mm-hmm so this is a manchu from siena I had sent you an email about some attributes that were not covered the poor neighbor poor address family and you said you will look into that and that because I think I believe it there was one of the draft that had all those attributes then you merged with the yes I remember and it all got lost we miss that then that\u0027s my fault let\u0027s pick that up afterwards I know what you\u0027re talking about okay okay can I just get a can you just either re4 it the drafter the original message so I make sure I got it I can do that thank you okay any other concerns about adopting the revised datastore that eight seems to be the easy path the rest I will work with John and all the rest to see if I can come up with what I should do with the open config and they will send requests out to the list any other questions now the final thing that\u0027s in here is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:44",
    "text": "once we settle on the revised datastore model we will then take model drafts on extensions the revised datastore model and the model that we had picked up with ITF BGP originally from the open config the BGP portion took a subset of BGP and we put other things for extensions once we adopt this we will adopt extensions and for the best working group this is where we got to make sure that we\u0027re sort of in alignment okay any other questions on this thank you for the excellent feedback okay we\u0027ll go on to the next one that\u0027s why hi everyone this is Gavin so hi this is guard our assistants so I\u0027m presenting it for this SRE 6vg BLS signal routing document just reminder there is some architecture and the network programming architecture and network programming guide which is out there please read that it gives a lot of good information also right out of this I will be presenting the service training draft so you\u0027ll get an idea what are we trying to do problem we all know what beach pls does so I don\u0027t have to go into the details of it but essentially what we\u0027re trying to do is to enable a way for the controller to learn about my local sit table which is defined in that network programming document what it is how it does all that details are there and of course you know enable the topological topology in the segment routing v6 and also the services like self-service functions and the sub paths which we call segments and again those details are in that programming document so solution we\u0027re defining bunch of tlvs and sub tlvs to signal this information from the nodes to the controller to enable the srte or other you know segment routing based solutions the first TLV is a node attribute TLV so at a high level we have defined the tlvs which we need as node attributes and this is again in RF the base BG BLS RFC but the the node "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:46",
    "text": "attribute are attached the node TLV and we are defining two more node tlvs the capability TLB and ideally the capability TLV is responsible for announcing the capabilities of the router what it can do the supposed support for the SRH these are the sub tlvs which are defined the IGP draft which we have published for segment auditing v6 we are encoding safe information in BG pls instead of going in IGP you\u0027re sending it from the node to the controller so nothing fancy there all the details are in the draft so you know if there any questions we can discuss another list or please feel free to send me an email I can I can now I can help answer that city LV is essentially how do you encode the CID or segment identifiers like end and D function and DX 6 and signal it from the node to the controller so simple link attribute TLV is the TLV which we are defining again to encode the agency information it could be a peer-to-peer link or the land you know cross connect direct link to attributes are defined for the link attribute we have the p2p cross TLV and the LAN cross it clearly ETP as a and as we know it\u0027s just to define the the p2p information so we are having a CID size which defines how many sets are encoded the set value some ITP information those extensions are defined in the eius eius eius eius raft and the last slide I have so this slide is is about the the same information similar information in a LAN LAN TLV the only difference here is the neighbor ID whether it\u0027s a no SPF or the neighbour ID or system idea SS system ID is encoded CID size and set value is encoded the last one is a function to LV so once we have defined the CID which needs to be sent from the node to the controller we also need to signal a sub T LV which tells for which function this set is associated with so we tagged that information in a sub T LV and send it to the controller and that next steps here take a patel Arcis hey it\u0027s a great draft disclaimer I haven\u0027t read it the question though I have is you\u0027re carrying in SRV six information here in LS right yeah what happens if my v4 and v6 Saffy\u0027s have tunnel encapsulation attributes which one which one should win out you mean signal down in video pls the null and gap attributes yeah inside standard v4 and v6 that\u0027s not specific to this yeah but it\u0027s specific to BGP yeah so which one should win out the question rather I\u0027m asking is do you want to reconcile this information "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:46",
    "text": "inside tunnel encapsulation so if not why you probably want to clarify it in the draft right so we can clarify that but the way we the BGP LS is being used right now for the discovery of the nodes and services that\u0027s the standard way V naught we don\u0027t know of implementations which are doing or using the tunnel n cap attributes but we can discuss that you know offline as well just ensure the number of TL ways here define hardware capabilities and it looks very similar to MSD capabilities by not signaling so it is in my opinion at least it is better to put in one piece instead of putting a small piece in msdn small piece in R\u0026D and a small piece in their survey 6 capability the splitter is one piece implementation wise yank models no command everything is simple this way not really the this there is something called MSD and there\u0027s something called SRB successor physics has all their services in fact in my opinion we should not be really defined dividing the capability related to a feature into two or three pieces so if you if you build both software and hardware I might agree and give the related wall when you need your hardware to signal what\u0027s supported and believe me it\u0027s difficult enough to get brought common other to implement this API if you start creating variety of them if you confuse everybody you\u0027ll introduce new bugs and no but in fact actually I would argue the information which we are encoding in in the other documents and different other ways it may be more confusing than doing in one standard David yeah yeah it is the the the the the a the way it works is that it gives you the the information in whatever format it has depending on the API you encoded in a different place the way you encoded this protocol dependent the way they give it you as Hardware dependent these are two separate things but if they give you this information SSR basics information in once in one piece and you divide it at half of it in one TLV and another half and a different year I think it\u0027s much other implementation wise in action so I have a automation that there\u0027s another craft it\u0027s also different similar function like this one I have different so I can\u0027t hear you there\u0027s a lander craft also different similar extensions but there has some different definition about the terrible example the type and the lands field dance and some other but but I saw is similar I think can discuss offline sure how to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:47",
    "text": "improve sure sure sure thank you gettin the Lolita Cisco Jeff you mentioned that the information is redundant I didn\u0027t quite catch that the information signal in mentioned here and in the MST drafts are redundant okay okay I\u0027m speaking for the next one so we are in this particular document we are proposing a service chaining architecture with using segments routing what we are asking for IDR in this particular document is the BGP LS extensions I am presenting note that both drafts one is the BGP LS extensions for service chaining and the segment routing service chaining data plane document just to complete the CIM you know have the full picture of what we are trying to do all right so just as a reminder again the network programming is the again the main document we have defined all these functions which we will be talking about this document some of the functions are defined in that service chaining document which I mentioned in the first slide also it will be good to review how the SRS header and gos the information how do we do the overall architecture with service chaining topology nodes and other stuff those are details are in the SRS document the segment routing header document problem what do you want to do we want our neeps enabled service chaining and also have other attributes of the traffic because you know we are seeing there\u0027s a lot of discussions and talks about how do we do segment routing which solves one problem how do we do second service chaining which solves another problem this solution is just trying to integrate all of that into one solution how do we discover these services how do we discover the Associated sets or services as we call it with those services an end goal is to provide a solution which is simple flexible enough and scalable which we can all try it so what is the service function and I mean we all know what service function is what services are in this particular document the mean service chaining data plain document what we are describing is is a notion of s are aware service functions and s are unaware service functions so you have s are aware functions which can actually understand segment routing and they can process the traffic based on some local site value which is associated on that particular note s are unaware means that it needs somebody\u0027s help to signal that information from the node to the controller so it could be a VPP node or some other open source node or a router or you know top of the RAC "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:48",
    "text": "switch and we are calling those functions as SR proxy or segment routing proxy functions and it\u0027s it\u0027s acting as a proxy on behalf of the services which are attached on that node services are so in this particular case for s are proxies we have different proxies which we have defined based on what their role is and how we are how those proxies are implemented we have you know s static proxy which is similar to what we do today you you configure something and I have a slide which covers that we have dynamic proxies shared memory and masquerading I\u0027m not covering all of them today in the presentation but they are undefined in the in detail in that service chaining our data plane document so if there is any questions or comments you know those are welcome we can discuss it in the on the thread so what is the static proxy static roxy is your it\u0027s it\u0027s today\u0027s solution how you do today where you are configuring up the static information about the function or services on a particular node and it\u0027s a pre configuration the pre configuration in this particular case says you have a cid associated with that pre config you have an output at output outbound interface going from a VPP to that service function and you have an inbound interface where some policies and attached so when the when the packet comes in and it\u0027s hard to read but I\u0027ll try to explain so in this particular case you have an SR H header where you have us a segment list which is associated there you have a segment which is e1 e1 : : a when the packet comes to VPP with E one column column a the VPP knows ah this is something which I have configured over here and it\u0027s a static proxy it does a lookup it\u0027s d caps the outer header sends the packet over to the function on or service it does something comes back and then on the ingress side on the input interface you have the another inbound policy which is configured which could be some PVR policy or some policy and that will put the header back and send it to the next segment by copying that c2 colon colon one which is the next set into the destination address and send it out right now we are we are giving just an example of an ipv4 as an inert header but it could be ipv6 or it could be an Ethernet this solution is fully flexible to be able to do that we do maintain a person static configuration just the nature of it this is how its deployed today what you achieve with this static proxy is that you can integrate with the segment routing where you can have some SLA requirements like delay or latency or jitter a delay and latency and you can you can combine that with the services which you want to configure on in your network so it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s just enabling on the current functionality apparent "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:48",
    "text": "solutions with segment routing dynamic proxy is little bit more flexible so you have and in this solution again is for both SR MPLS and for sr v 6 so we have acid\u0027 which is associated which is e1 : : B and that has the packet comes in with even : : be the VPP looks at the packet and says oh this set is mine I need to do something it it D caps the outer header caches that information locally sends the packet the inner ipv4 packet to the to the service comes back from the service and then it puts the header back and sends it out to the on the wire by copying the nest next segment ID which is c2 into the destination address and it goes out in this particular case we are not doing any static configuration in fact again this is this is dynamically configure the main goal of enabling these proxy functions whether static dynamic masquerading shared memory is to is is as we are developing the nodes which are fully capable of segment routing and that work is also ongoing this is this is the way to to be able to enable these services and integrate them with the segment routing and all the benefits with segmenting provides again the inner header can be ipv4 ipv6 or an Ethernet so the solution is fully flexible sorry all right so from idea point of view we are requesting some bt pls extensions to be able to discover these services we are also proposing some sub tlvs to encode the service information which is the service services based it data model and signal it from the node to the to the controller service chaining attributes of TLV is is requested in this draft where you have a service type which is a new registry which is also requested in this draft which defines the kind of service it is whether it\u0027s a classifier firewall DPI any kind of those services it also requests what the traffic that service is capable of handling so and it\u0027s in our operation so it can be one or both on many so you can have an ipv4 ipv6 Ethernet any of those as in ur headers this is just for the controller to know what that when it\u0027s when it\u0027s creating this SRS header you know whether it should include this particular service node as its as one of the node in the SRS header opaque metadata we realize that there will be a lot of information which is very service specific we do not we that\u0027s why we created some opaque metadata sub TLB which can encode information like vendor specific information like brand version other data any extra information can be encoded in it we believe in this particular case we don\u0027t have to standardized in the these opaque type specifically we want it to be gender ik "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:50",
    "text": "only the publisher and consumer needs to know about it so we are throwing that information in there so that the controller can make sense out of it implementation status so whatever we have talked about so far we have already implemented the proxy functions on the open source hardware we have implemented the the on Linux and on FDI o VBB software we have also implemented the static proxy on Cisco hardware and and that particular demo will be out there and you know in the end on the on Cisco\u0027s web side we also have s are aware open source work which is going on with some research universities and that will be available very soon so we will have services which are fully capable of segment routing processing once those are unable then that particular service itself becomes a node in a whole segment routing solution so once that service will be able to send the information to the controller then the information can be put together by the controller just like any other node so this is this is this is the solution which we are proposing for sharing any comments feedback under here again yes kayuu patel arcus I have actually question for a chair for chairs couple of IDF\u0027s back Robert and I presented a draft called vector routing which was based which is intended for service aning I I have a faint recollection I might be wrong but back then the working group had said that service chaining work was not within the Charter of this working group has that changed at that I recall the same situation that was going to be one of my next comments I need to talk to my ad on whether this goes here or whether it\u0027s got to go to review by service chaining and then come back and service chaining so give me a point of order always good to hear it but let me talk to Alvaro and that\u0027s just because I don\u0027t have Alvaro here he\u0027ll be here later today tomorrow excuse me on Tuesday so here and we will send me just to note that show I\u0027m sorry to ask that but John and I have dropped a few things so send me notes and yeah so to be clear what we are clarifying and this idea is just the bt pls extensions I presented both the drafts for the competition yes he just I just need to work with el farol sure to find out does it sit in service training and then they request that we add the BGP just let me work with Alvaro care we send me your drafts again yes I\u0027ll make sure thank you thank you folks okay we try to do this as we talked about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:51",
    "text": "earlier with the BG you pls we are really trying to be collaborative and make sure we check that everything\u0027s working in one working group before we do the GLS so this is not a no it\u0027s just let me figure out how it works okay that comes to the end of our agenda I have just a couple points I have I have one working group adoption and one I didn\u0027t do an allocation if there\u0027s somebody else that hadn\u0027t sent me one it\u0027s a reminder if I\u0027ve missed your allocation John and I are I\u0027ve had a life storm where we\u0027re sort of bailing water if you miss getting your allocation if you miss getting your working group call do not feel shy about sending John and I several messages will apologize ahead of time but we\u0027ll try to get through all of them and if you would send it today I\u0027d appreciate it I\u0027ll summarize to the list that\u0027s it thank you very much thank you to Ignis for the rest and with the BGP model folks come up and chat with me and we are the buoys [Music] you "
  }
]