[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:21",
    "text": "hi guys as we are gathering for for for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "hello hello how are you oh fine so some activity in F today lot of discussion but we need some people who is there Martin and Steve excellent excellent excellent uh I've been I've been messaging Michael uh within the last 30 minutes and I just I just Tim to see if he had noticed that what time it was yet uh but I'm expecting him to join us as well um we have had we have had uh a power outage in um in uh the Dallas area which is where I live and uh so I've been without power all morning so um I'm I'm still catching up so you're running on battery right now oh no it it came it came on probably an hour and a half ago something like that but uh I had a lot of stuff that I was thinking about doing this morning that uh all got jammed into trying to do it very quickly but yeah so one of the one of the things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "that I'm doing right as quickly as I can is all the things that I usually do uh that that the combination of me and uh Michael usually do uh before the meeting so uh yeah so let's see where are we and just right now right now what I'm doing is just uh putting in this the uh status of all of our many documents so um wait what oh sorry [Music] ah yes so so Michael Michael just said he's on he's he is joining us so should pop in here in a second"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:05",
    "text": "Michael hi how the heck are you um I'm I'm surviving excellent hang on just yeah but I have electricity so that's okay hey anybody can do it with electricity Michael yes that's right so uh so uh I uh at least I'm at least taking a look at the uh the uh notes and uh and a couple of things with that for uh uh that we're that we're doing um we might reasonably be uh ready to pretty close to ready to get started does that sound reasonable yeah I think we're we're ready uh so we only got three no Dave today uh I'm looking to see if he had if he had regrets he did reply to the email but didn't say if he was coming or not I have no feed back from him so let's start without him okay cool um Michael do you want to do you wna do you w to uh share a screen or do you want me to yeah I'll do that okay and I and I can and I can take notes okay well welcome to the May 2024 meeting uh as you remember we canceled"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "the end of April meeting because there wasn't really a lot to discuss at the time um and that's about it uh any changes to the agenda today um I I had one question uh we we've had uh a couple of emails pop up on the mailing list about um proposal to embed ff1 at the compression Mao into PNG um I don't know if anybody that can uh speak to that as on the call today but um and we have had we have had one uh one reply to that I think even um but I wanted to reply but was waiting for the conference today yeah yeah exactly perfect yeah because in practice uh in my opinion it is not something uh very difficult because it is just getting an ID uh in PNG or in t but the compression uh is the same so it is just another container yeah so so this would be PNG style compression inside ffv1 no this would be PNG has a compression uh uh ID and you can compress uh in um in with Z lib so the classic Z lib or with another format the is not so common but it is possible so but the poster was complaining that the problem with PNG was that the Z lib took too long yeah yeah for example so F1 can be another format inside PNG but right in my opinion we we need to deal with PNG Consortium and it is maybe outside of so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "that's the idea it's ffb1 compression within PNG yeah there is technically nothing blocking because we can put F1 in matosa but we can also put fv1 in PNG there is no no technical limitation about that it is just that we need to register the ID uh with PNG and PNG is a very old format so not sure it is well maintained uh yeah I think it falls under some so uh sigcom or something consia um and T for example is also used with a lot of different compression identifier we could uh use F1 in t if there is someone interested in that but is just um I don't think uh is part of Sellar because ffv1 is a standard learn format and we put it in matosa because Sellar is matosa plus F1 plus flag so oh that's interesting so PNG was first published as RFC 2083 so yeah but there is a lot of uh I need to check if there is um a list of standard uh codec identifier in this in in ATF because now uh because PNG format is hosted by the W fre or so so I will check where is the list of standard Cod ID and find out what is should be done"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "okay um so go you go ahead I'm sorry Michael I'm just trying to understand I'm trying to think two things first of all is it our problem um absolutely not it is yet another format at all uh so it sounds like it could be our problem because um for the simple reason that uh ff1 is our problem um looking at RC 2083 um um come on a considerations but anyway the RSC is not is no longer the authoritative source is what I understand right right right AG um but it still might tell us obviously Mr Thomas bhel might be I will check exactly where it's the compression uh and if we can do it or not none of these people are particularly active in the ITF anymore um well there were I mean a lot of PE a lot of people were active in the ITF when the ITF was doing things that move that then moved to w3c so uh I don't think it moved to w3c did it don't no it's released okay on w3c yeah yeah no no on 1996 and later as the RFC right uh was later revised on 30 as version 1.1"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "and then version 1. was released as a second edition of the W3 standard on 20223 and then it went to an ISO see that's the problem with once it went become an ISO then it becomes really inacessible um yeah prate identif or something like that so I I would check the PNG format for being sure it is possible that there is really codc ID or I would point out that T I am sure about t that there is here so this is the kind of thing doable but I I will answer to that okay um I I will double check what is possible and uh on sale so I would say it falls in a crack between um you know it's quite reasonable for us to say no it's not our problem um and it it would be good to put F V1 everywhere but there's a need to have a sponsor for that for a sponsor someone very interested in developing uh the um the ma the link between PNG and ffb1 and it is again it is not about the specification it is just uh um uh having another compression method for PNG it is compression method and to to put uh to to register the compression method or to have a proprietary uh compression method and then to develop in FFM MPEG and everywhere the support of F1 PNG yeah doesn't seem to be a way to register a new compression method in the docent but then we could uh I remember talk no time to wait someone said that um standard is just something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "people agree on so it doesn't matter where it comes from if you make a document at the ietf and say compression 42 is ffv1 and you explain how to use it then people can use it if they want and but then you get into the someone else who's 42 and that's why we like to have ay type invest practice here for PNG that's the problem and for p we have only one bite so it is very easy to be in conflict with someone else but and and this is the this is the problem is that it's moved to the iso uh costs 194 Swiss currency you don't get to read it uh nobody has a clue how to get there uh JTC so you pretty much have to go to this this um uh we can use a def facto number it will be pushing so that's sc24 is that right yeah did I see that go past yes that's right okay okay uh the ietf has um the ason relationships with uh a few different uh JTC uh groups uh two 20 296 but uh but this this uh if if if we need help uh they the nice people on the IAB who are responsible for liaison coordination uh just turned over some some new people uh and uh we could we could ask them for help with that uh if we if if if we thought that this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "mattered and we don't think we're talking to anybody who can make this happen without help uh we could ask them to help does that make sense I think we should do I think we should do that would you do that question is do we want to do that uh the question is in the in sell do we want to focus on that uh if a person is motivated for uh reaching out PNG people I am not against that but I am not sure that in s the people here want to do that so Jerome why don't you just summarize what you just said yeah I would send an email I would about that and say that to do this correctly with ffv1 compression in a PNG uh format that um we would need to go and do something and uh um uh it's within the realm of possibility but um I I would say it's on the edge of of our Charter it's not clearly inside or clearly outside so um that's um yeah yes excellent and uh can can you I I okay I'm I'm I'm hitting I'm hitting so we have a bright new shiny area director Orie steel um so uh it is it is a you know it's a good thing for us to talk with Orie about uh about our Charter anyway so if this is something that if this is something that we would like to be able to help at least a little um from seller um then uh that would be a good conversation to have and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "conversely if we don't want to be anywhere close to it being involved being involved in it uh that would be that would be good thing to know also so just a uh PNG is uh ISO yes but it is also ITF FFC yeah but that's 1.0 is I is ietf 1 two was w3c and then there was an ISO on top of that so no more the business of ATF it sounds like passed on yeah if you if you if you look at rsc's for HTML um we we we we we were the first place that had specifications for that so that's the kind of thing I that I think we're talking about here um that basically the ITF was doing this because it was was internet related and then as w3c spun up and became more capable uh then things turned it went into uh the I the into uh w3c's perview so uh ITF ietf has a liaison relationship with uh with ISO with with different ISO uh SE committees jtc1 committees and and uh can I can can the can the uh actions be that Jerome will uh find out if there's a standard list of codec IDs that something needs to be added to or do do you all want me to pursue uh the question with uh the uh what I I okay I'm trying I'm trying to figure out what the next step is and I think the next step that I that I was misunderstanding I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "think the next step was that Jerome would uh reply to the email and say this is the situation as we understand it right now um you know basically do you have what you need to pursue this with with ISO or do you need help it is for example what we we did for mxf so mxf was not the business of Sellar directly but we managed to contact pte for MX and we got it registered uh by SMPT and we need to do the same for PNG but it is not seller right I will answer something like that okay perfect perfect and I found the GitHub that seems to be the official place for the PNG development there are some people for example talking about Z standard or lc4 compression so maybe that's actually the place to request an ID or something like that can you paste that um that I put the link in the chat or I can put it in the chat there we go chat okay and I and I I will just say this too you got you guys uh you guys all have right access to the minute so uh anytime anytime that there's something that needs to be in the minutes please feel free to put it there because neither Michael Nor I will be offended I cop we talked about yeah well talking about minutes I think we skipped over um looking at the mids of the previous meeting yeah sorry are there any comments on the yeah we we switch back to the agenda maybe it was too"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "fast we did things too fast oh no too fast the the discussion we switch to to fast to the discussion yeah uh Michael I'm I'm finishing up I'm finishing up the notes on this topic can you take notes for a second yeah where are you taking notes you put them at the bottom here yeah cool okay you put them in the agenda anyway okay so you have some notes and I had some notes that I wrote up further I'll let you them I I will do yes absolutely yes absolutely perfect okay any comments on the on the minutes from the previous meeting uh I think they're fine yeah okay all right so going to the review of where we are at uh codex chapters control and ff1 V4 all kind of unchanged I would say uh thanks for reposting codc there uh Flack is in the RFC editor que uh waiting to be edited I guess uh for a few months couple months now I know everything else seems really behind uh and metosa is an O 48 still um and tags is just around okay we're going to talk about matosa in a couple minutes here Milestone review um ff1 video Codec version 4 well that seems unlikely to me it's still start yeah was um maybe it's this what I want to do so what would you like to write down for I mean I don't have a problem myself if we were to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "say it's a placeholder for future work um and we're we're not we don't we probably won't get any any uh yeah don't expect any activate now so it is but personally I still want to have this placeholder because in the future we may start it again yeah so what we're going to do is we're going to remove the date okay I am fine with that and um do that for the moment there is not enough people interested in uh creating something with fv1 before um so there is not enough motivation but personally I I I want to keep this placeholder for later yeah that's fine uh so it looks like to me uh just to jump back uh you po someone posted the png3 repo at w3c and it looks like they have they have control of the of the um pen so that's probably the place to go and w3c is much easier to interact with uh intermediate I don't see a compression algorithm but anyway okay okay then uh and and and Martin Thompson is uh the liaison manager for w3c so so that's that's doable to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:14",
    "text": "cool I I'm just I'm just finishing up the notes on that so uh please don't wait on me but I'll I'll and I'll catch up with with uh you guys in a minute so I don't know if we can have supposed to be able to have Milestones without dates but maybe we have to delete them and add it I don't know anyway okay so let's go on let's talk about matasa uh I'm a really a little bit of a loss here um I I believe this is a section so if I'm correct me if I'm wrong but we're hung up on the a considerations with respect to the chapter codec IDs is that still true or not because from what I see yes uh there was an email I think Mar was in the loop uh and there was no reply yet about that uh I mean I proposed even to just remove the values from the document and that would be just fine for us and also remove the registry for now I I don't understand what what what's wrong with with with this the values of zero and one what I where who said this was a problem the RFC editors okay I don't I've lost where they said"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "this was a problem um I saw your reply but I somehow don't have the um here can try to find it ah I I think they should just remain reserved I don't understand why why we H were asked to change that well that's one thing the sometimes they did some changes in the document without even telling so I spent a huge amount of of time looking at their changes and finding out what they did and why for the first review it was mostly English and presentation Etc and the next reviews they started changing some text here and there it's a bit weird and uh yeah so the codc idea registry is one of them and I don't know why they they want to change that now I don't understand why having reserved is a problem you said you're there was some specific message they said yeah I found the part where they said it's a problem we're unable to currently I'm look I'm trying to find it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:12",
    "text": "so is it because section 20.3 do we do something in section 20.3 that's problem no that would be 27.2 yeah I know but the refers to c section 20.3 on the DVD menu 20.3 so I the email hold on I think the mentioned there's a problem with the Registries on the 15th of May from M Madison Church yes I found that one yeah we are unable to make the update suggested above because these values have not been registered or even defined and also that probably because it references document that's not uh published yet so could we just remove section 20.3 or the menu features are handled like a chapter codec that is the subject of future work period"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "[Music] um yes the the the thing is that do we want the elements that deal with that in this document or in the next and I think uh the elements that are in chapter codex are left out of this spec and move to the other documents I noticed I did that a long time ago but noticed this week again uh and there was a reference to an element that is in the other document but not on Matos anymore so yeah we could just remove completely the menu mention and that would be in the other document where we specify how it works with new elements which are not exactly new because they're part of matosa one but they defin somewhere else right now they're not even in the document anyway these elements right so it just we have this uh this part here where it says two values are supported and that's what gets us into trouble because we haven't actually defined what that those are we need to leave them reserved yes but we do say it's reserved somewhere else right we say that in 27.2 but here we try to give them values in 20.3 and I think that's why we're getting into trouble Oh you mean the difference between reserved and what they actually mean yes okay in this document they just need to be reserved and we can't say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "more about them because okay and then in the chapters uh uh code act document then obviously we would um say uh what they are we would allocate them oh yeah okay fine uh so should I send a new reply and with a new XML with this thing edited let me let me write an email before you do the uh before you do the XML and see if that is acceptable to them okay yeah because I sent uh new XML file and so I'm now I suppose we'll get an answer and with a new edited version yeah it's not so great for them to get a new XML file because they wind up having to emerge it's so much easier if we just let them do the manage the XML uh for now and only at the if you want to update your copy that you do that only at the end uh after we finish there's so many changes it I mean it's unable to just uh I I know so the the idea is though that they get change control not us at this point right um and okay um yeah so that you're doing a lot of work that most people don't don't do like they just let the right um yeah but then I also did that to verify well first to check what they change and to verify it's correct and some cases it wasn't correct so it's important to make that work I think okay so you all right that's fair enough okay I'm just trying to I'm trying to avoid you repeating their work with frustration um um when we should just let them do the job that they're paid for um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "so but okay so I sent the email was two sentences uh see what they have to say in response to that um there okay did you get a note of that that I missed there no okay let me just copy this right here I don't know if we want a u informative reference to the codak document or not chapter document rather yeah um I keep saying codec and I know I need I mean to say chapter codex right yeah we do not reference that document yet right so the point is that it could say future work uh it could say future work and then it could say you know um informative U chapter codec right that's that's an acceptable reference if it's informative right any other comments from other people in general on that subject on this subject jome Martin sorry I missed it what what what am I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "supposed to com on uh whether or not removing all the references uh to the uh in TW section 20.3 solves our problem yes I I think it does and I think uh referencing um the internet draft leaves a very ugly reference so I wouldn't do it but yeah it's not my place to decide yeah it's it's sort of it's it's a matter of taste right um okay well uh anything else that we're missing Steve from the review uh any other controversy that I've like I said Sometimes some of the edits were wrong and for example they added the the range for the one octed two octet R and Fork IDs the range in exad decimal which was not in the original document except they got the values wrong so I corrected that I hope they fix it because we did put the range actually in the in the ebml RFC so I the Val from I described here uh except the values they copied well maybe that seems to be correct on that one but originally it was incorrect it's probably the result of you so uh um as long as they're correct saying it twice"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "is okay and it puts the rules in one place yeah I think it's a good idea to put the values there but if they're wrong that's the problem that's right right they just have to be right right otherwise you know yeah um okay and that's why I think it's important to review every single change they make just in case yes that's the whole point of off 48 is we have to we have to do that yeah I wonder why they have the self- reference to me this seems strange to self- reference just this document you know but anyway okay maybe it makes their life well of of course once it goes into the registry then it's not a self- reference it's a external reference so that's fine it's a nice number by the way yes consulted your your numerologist I just like how it looks it's a pal yes exactly and the five and the nine are almost kind of you know upside downish of each other but not quite six and nine but you know there you go and 59 is the department in France where I live so it's easy so it's it's quite a quite a it's quite a self-referential document then a yeah refers to you this is where this guy lives here he wanted problems then will we have to remember the document if you move though well I'm staying okay all right right uh anything else that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "controversial that you need help with or no that you want to bring up or actually I thought that before the last round it was going to be almost over but then there was this I I issue so we'll see okay so it's really the last thing I think there we go I think so okay all right uh then we're pretty much done here they're not about to expire just on the side as I mentioned last time there's a Google summer of code students that's working on the interactive movie in matros scan so we're working on the chapter codec so we're going to do a lot of additions in there so okay that's really quite exciting um so uh matasa container codec that's scheduled right now for 2025 um that's seller codec which which is um media cancel um edit Milestones"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "matasa no that's the wrong one too so do we have we don't have a as far as I can tell we don't have a a uh a milestone associated with chapter codex that make sense it seems It's not uh if you look at the Milestones there's nothing to submit them as a documents I think the these documents were split a while ago from the main document I created the files up did the XML but I don't know what I have to do to make them actual documents that we're working on um I think that I'm not sure what you mean here so so you see there for the other ones you see propose standard but for these two there's nothing I don't know if something needs to be done that's that's what it needs be done a chair has to do this has to click on the right button that's it and then you said this one here control track yes there is that better for you yes okay so uh we have no Milestone associated with this document is what I was saying yeah um uh uh do we have to set one or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "no I mean I don't even know if we'll ever work on that the chapter codc it is happening so we're working on that but probably 2025 when we have something stable so like that yeah for example click no that's not the right one review changes um well that's annoying um delete oh okay that's fine review changes [Music] okay well uh 10 minutes left any other other business so uh Michael uh I saw that you had uh very proactively just dropped Orie uh a note uh suggesting that we have a a chat um do do is there anything else is there anything the working group needs us to talk about with Orie no anything anything other than uh our new uh our new topic that popped up about uh uh FF uh uh ff1 for PNG not that I know of all right cool and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "and did and did we did we say anything about which document to store on next for matasa I think sounds like we're chapter codex is what's going to get the attention this summer okay uh okay and um does is that uh is that uh that that we got notes under any other business about that uh would that make that would make sense to put up under uh the additional metka specifications and I and I can move that or you can doesn't matter which uh I just want I just wanted to make sure I know what the plan was I'm not sure what you mean but please go ahead okay cool sorry also side note um so with the edits from the RFC editor I did a lot of search and replays to match what they did that means some of the changes also appli to the other documents that's why I uploaded them with the changes and I think there might be another update soon but I'm waiting uh actually until uh RFC 9559 is published so we can reference it correctly it will be a lot easier in the for the next steps because right now we have to reference um document 21 but we have a lot of changes compared to that one including some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "paragraphs have moved and some sections of move so if you say section blah blah from that document it might not match and by the way there's a nice way in markdown and XML RFC to reference an actual section in an RFC yes which they used a lot it's very convenient look at that no time to wait it's already in my calendar you are so good man yeah I have this calendar it's called travel planning uhuh where I just throw everything in and then you discover whether you're going to whether that's going to happen or not yes later a truly wise use of uh calendaring technology yeah well it just you know has all sorts of crap in it that I yeah also true but it also tells me things like I'm already going to a different conference in Montreal that week so all right well uh with that let's say goodbye and um uh the next meeting is on the 6th of June uh 26 255th of June okay thank Youk and thank thank you for hooking that up thank you guys for a terrifically productive meeting thanks and uh I I when when I did not have power at all I was really starting to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "wonder thank you thank you all it wouldn't be the same without you it would be quieter and uh possibly fewer notes taken possibly so dark in your office that you have you have no power all right byebye bye bye have another all"
  }
]
