[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:46",
    "text": "so we\u0027re just circulating blue sheets and as we\u0027re doing we\u0027re looking for a job escribe if anybody can use Java that would be good whoa thank you so for those you in audio land and like the sweat son\u0027s going to describe on Java [Music] ok this is TSP wgt transport area working group they\u0027re not three of us up here i\u0027m david black guy in the green green sweater here is gori gori fairhurst and Wes Eddie has joined us up here more about that in a few slides this is the note well please read it it applies shoot applies to anything said or presented in this session we let\u0027s see I believe we have a note taker and a scribe um there\u0027s no wrestling can\u0027t take notes alright if somebody else will can create some s volunteer take notes we have a second set in case you miss one I\u0027m sorry who Vincent vaca Vince are Raquel to also thank you thank you very much Vincent quick reminder if you put tsv WG as the as the second element in a as sorry as a third film a giraffe named your the chairs are more likely to take to take note of it and figure out whether whether us we we ought to do something about it in the working group okay with a chair up here welcome welcome Wes thank you very much long I get background clipart ran for a TD you can\u0027t give apparently apparently apparently apparently apparently mrs. being responsible or didn\u0027t have the good sense to step back we call for volunteers I\u0027m not sure which but thank you very much Wes alright doctor if you request a standing reminder docking quality relies on reviews and you\u0027ll hear some requests for docs we need reviews on during this session and the Thursday session please your Doc\u0027s here at least one of the doc from the working group if you want documents that you care about reviewed please do likewise some of your documents okay on to the news we have for accounting for RFC\u0027s published since I give 97 in Seoul network transport circuit breakers 80-84 EP usage guidelines 80 85 which our places "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:47",
    "text": "RC 5405 jeering GRE and UDP 8086 which is a working example of UDP encapsulations a little more important than just a a weight of another way to run a giri and diffserv interconnection which is RC 8100 you two chairs who\u0027ve been here while had been very very busy I\u0027m Shepherd of three drafts author of for us our author the fourth gory is a author of two a Shepherd shepherd for one and the source of the crucial insight that enabled the fourth one to actually get actually get done at all so if you wonder why not much else has happened since so we\u0027ve been kind of busy making sure these happened there are still 20 drafts and Archie under q gift serve and WebRTC qos details and cap of sctp they\u0027re both waiting for the sctp I dated racks on the next page we don\u0027t have any IDs and ITF last caller post idea of last call processing yet three IDs include that completed working group left last call they\u0027re waiting varies for group chaired or author follow-up Tom congestion feedback is mine I talked to Shing Peng a yesterday and apologized the fact i should have pay attention new version submit in january and it\u0027s now March and I still need to pay attention to it I believe that one\u0027s done but I just have to check that it responds appropriately working with glass wall comments sctp uh I get a chunk gory I think you the Shepherd for that one what did you say is that I talked to the authors they\u0027ve revised the draft and I believe that one\u0027s nearly done I just need to make sure I read it carefully ok so with a little luck um these two drafts will move up to at least the first position this slide and perhaps further before the next I ATF diffserv to arguably 802 11 mapping i\u0027ve talked to fred baker who is one of the authors here we\u0027re going to have some work to do on this one uh there were significant issues raised against the draft I will be worked following up with Fred and and the other author Tim offline as a very good chance this one\u0027s going to need a second burger blast call as significant group basically the mappings in this graph of fine it\u0027s everything else that we had some problems starting with something starting with security okay the East an experimentation draft is likely to go to work in group last call soon and then we have five more drafts in the working group diffserv lower effort / hot behavior ec encapsulation guidelines EC and I capsule gather for tunnels at you shim headers sctp net draft and sctp arata and issues draft all right three related drafts may be of interest Pope CSU WG congestion control control for 4G and 5g mobile uh the int area tunnels draft with which in areas been having a fun time recently and I encapsulate "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:48",
    "text": "considerations draft in RT g WG from the design team alright so a teacher of G agenda we\u0027re rocket we\u0027re going to show you the agenda in in a minute we\u0027ve gone through the note well we\u0027ve done through done Dakin accomplishment to status milestones view is coming up the next slide drafts and then Thursday we\u0027ll come back with note well maybe a few notes new chairs and more drafts longer session is on Thursday okay milestone review here\u0027s the eye chart okay we\u0027ve been sufficiently busy getting those four RFC\u0027s out that we\u0027ve had a three drafts that are now behind on milestones the first to tell Jason feedback and sctp new data chunk the best guess between gory and myself is that will get the publication requests for those submitted in April next month we we just have to review them the best guesses both are both are ready to go the Airdrie on eleven draft second diffserv a 311 mapping draft best guess on that is sep tember we think in second group last call as likely major made major revisions so we\u0027re going to push that at this with hope get it done get it done sooner sctp net draft no that\u0027s not getting submitted TI ESG next month exercise and very wishful thinking December is more realistic is more realistic date based on talking the author who among other things is is going to be working on making sure the sctp new data chunky idea draft moves we\u0027re going to talk about the milestone for lower effort of phb draft as part of the discussion of that draft the main milestone is not necessarily unreal list we need to have a bigger scope discussion about a deployability transition and things like that and when we see our discussion goes on a better idea of milestone to sign to that one the experimentation draft needs a new milestone also we\u0027re wearing the the Hat of author of that draft I\u0027m going to suggest June we will need work of last call it shortly but I\u0027m we\u0027ve done without revising it maybe June before we realize what\u0027s happened to us the condition of vacation draft which is back up here in April and the property association of occasion across a pipe eternally separated by a shim draft we bundle additional vacation capsulation graft move September the other hand we have no milestone for encouraging draft authors to use shorter draft titles and the sctp Arad an issues draft September still seems like a good time frame for that this is a heads up on milestones and essence we\u0027ve got two drafts were likely to be sending our RFC publication fairly shortly after this meeting we need to talk about um the LEP HB draft "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:51",
    "text": "hope to get explicit congestion a notification X orientation draft also moving along to RFC publication before the next meeting in Prague any questions or comments on this one alright we have three IDs looking for adoption uh we discussed these in Seoul and I think the direction is to add optimum a West will be talking a bit to these these will come up in come up in the session in a session on Thursday a TSP WG is the venue that is intended for for work on these drafts and will pick these from pick these up on Thursday you may even like to talk them to your reading list before thursday so we can talk about all right agenda review we\u0027re actually in the middle of item one although you\u0027ve just seen item 2 which is we\u0027ve talked through the the summary of the four drafts with which are milestones we will pick up the elie phb draft under item 3 this is the rest- agenda these four drafts easy experimentation the low effort Birkhoff behavior and the two ec and tunnel encapsulation drafts everything else is thursday they\u0027re the the chairs up front and some of the and the TCM p.m. chair has been talking about what to do with the RTO consider draft I will say no more other than we will have we hope have something intelligent at coherent and roughly in LA and and hopefully that will get consensus to say on Thursday 3 3 s.u TP drafts um the most important of which is SCTV end date of the first one which we hope to publish shortly nacked translation some support which is what Michael Tucson\u0027s going to be working on after we get the first one done and somehow we got from two to four and IRC for 9 60 are rotted erotic issues individual drafts for Thursday Joe touch has a draft new EP up who talked about Michael Tilson has a draft on some more considerations for UDP and cap sctp as is being used by of web RTC Vincent has a couple of drafts on a on for Derek correction framework and then we have the Alvarez drafts which will be the the Bob Briscoe and Wes Eddie show anything give us and finally we have yes sitting down under item 7 Ingemar Johansson ask for a I believe that\u0027s a congestion control our presentation well focusing on the extreme that\u0027s generated at high rates and its relationship to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:51",
    "text": "cellular networks you know so it\u0027s a discussion document to get going by the discussion slide presentation okay anybody want to bash the agenda going once going twice considerate bashed we may do it again uh the start of the session on on Thursday okay so oh yeah one more thing sorry for all speakers and it looks like I\u0027m up first we have this standing reminder there\u0027s a pink box on the floor you\u0027re supposed to stand in it this is what happens if you don\u0027t these women I\u0027ll second that so I\u0027ll step into the pink box and that means I\u0027m now the standing here is the author the experimentation graph this track was a dot by work group after after some discussion there were a few comments during adoption pigment one from a Karen Nielsen the dash 0 1 version of it reflects that comment I know of nothing else needs you done to this draft so I think we\u0027re it\u0027s basically ready for working group last call does anybody have any comments on the ACN and enabling draft yeah this is mostly a process draft designed to remove a few requirements in the Bay CCRC 1368 getting in the way of experiments morning run okay David we last time around we have quite a lot of discussion about this so I just like a show of hands of people who\u0027ve read the ecn document from this in groups so that we can know who\u0027s read it I see one two three four five five or six going guys I\u0027m ready oh you really as well okay so we have some people read it and ok then when you next revise it let\u0027s take that to a week and ripped last call if there\u0027s no further issues emerge I believed a shawarma to currently posted Virgin River group last call now unless somebody sense says something now or since it sends me the mailing list that requires another version anybody got any comments good I like comment we don\u0027t just walk in and I receiving to talk about the first thing right we\u0027re talking about the ecn document and to revise the use of the ECT coupons and I reviewed the document and i believe i sent some comments somewhere not sure if i send it to the readiness or to you whatever but my high-level comment was that um the document were very much sweets like we do this because we want to do this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:52",
    "text": "experiment and i think that\u0027s wrong what we should say is we do this because it\u0027s the right thing to do and by the way this open up some experiment space um I don\u0027t think it\u0027s about the content it\u0027s really about the wording a little bit do you know what I mean yeah it\u0027s a PS and I guess the document should last and be be seen as inspiring in future times when we\u0027re not just enabling something it\u0027s actually part of the spec so is that what you\u0027re saying you change the wording so it actually states what we really want to do no route rather than the intention of enabling the experiment says ill we want to make these changes because it\u0027s the right thing to do and by the way that allows these experiments afterwards yes ok well yes we work offline on wording of the draft is guilty as charged and of the most part i left the ration rationale for the experiments to the underlying paragraphs and sound like vehicle and just nothing to a rationale to explain why these changes ought to be made in principle hmm i\u0027ll try to work i\u0027ll try to work wording the drop line yes so but what I\u0027m saying is basically should even talk less about the experiments and more about the general rationals behind that mmm okay okay so as I said we\u0027ll do in your revision then and then we\u0027ll we\u0027ll ask the working group for cards okay thank you Mira no problem oh no what no [Music] excitement ah I have a slight nod you\u0027ve been talking about it ah yeah that\u0027s good hello I\u0027m umm Lulu this is a quicker if you wanted yeah hello okay and over face by and I\u0027m gory first I\u0027m not rolling blessed i\u0027m going to talk on behalf of roland is Roland online yes good rather than can ask questions at the end then or answered the meeting and this is about the Laura effort / hot behavior the Oh hold the mic I was going to do that the beginning and this is about the law a pit / hot behavior the hot behavior that we\u0027re going to define that will enable scavenger class or a lower priority service through the internet and we\u0027re going to talk about the core point in dscp land so forward please and the goal of this is to obsolete the recommendations on use of cs one for this class and we\u0027ve done a number of updates from zero zero two zero one and largely result of feedback from the working group one of the things we added was the requirement that congestion control should be used with the PHP so a scavenger class and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:54",
    "text": "application actually has a congestion control appropriate to that and that\u0027s really useful if the dscp doesn\u0027t survive the path or you don\u0027t receive the / hot behavior expect so that\u0027s a good transport recommendation i think and rudy good guide also make suggestions about what to do about the dropping precedence for the scavenger class traffic and and that wording has been revised so there\u0027s no shoulds indicating its relation to other DSC PS and yeah and 2119 language was added in various places and it brings us back to the recommendations in section 5 and we don\u0027t recommend dscp bleaching that\u0027s where you reset the diff circle point 20 and but there\u0027s two different semantics for Ellie what to do and whether to remarket to be is okay or whether to only transmit it and if the pH be supported and we could use to s2 DSC PS that might be useful that\u0027s not currently in the draft and you\u0027re a number of things here the working group can make comments on will come later to which DSC PS we might think are best for this service but maybe we want more than one as a possibility the current suggestion is just to use one and let\u0027s go next line d s domain that uses dscp cs1 for marking le traffic and is doing something that\u0027s kind of odd because CS ones actually higher than cs0 but that was incorporated into a RFC some time ago and in 45 94 largely as a result of internet to experience when they just wanted to call point that worked and they chose one that worked and that\u0027s got a certain number of problems and not least the fact that when you go fire a toss them and enable them Ruta that uses the old toss marking semantics it can remove the top three bits 0 angles I\u0027m end up with a very strange core point and so to get all this right and text has changed but and yeah read read section 60 explicitly wats changes respect to 459 point okay and then we have some comments from David black first we need better distinction between networks in general and networks with full support of ally and we probably have work to do this is not a document that\u0027s finish it\u0027s a document that needs people to read it the must remark requirement and needs to be discussed in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:54",
    "text": "section 5 I guess their bid will discuss this yeah I think what I do is if you\u0027re going to bring up your your slides from map Margie or something like it later let\u0027s do it in that context so this is this is actually a transition concern it\u0027s fairly easy to put musts on new usage this is must on deployed running code which is a little interesting yeah okay um and what whatever we do we got to get the eye on the considerations correct and all these things will be incorporated into the next version what\u0027s next slide Oh discussion of ecn in combination with Ellie has been suggested that could be an interesting one to run I don\u0027t think we currently have any text on list and so should any le trafic we dropped prior to ecn marks for any other PHP and something the working group might have an opinion on and should le be able to support ecn or not how how does the less than best effort lower 3rd class actually interact with ecn marks and different people have different opinions that\u0027s been discussed on the list but nothing really is come out of that so that\u0027s something that still needs to be talked about and then there\u0027s a choice of which dscp to use for this new class we needed the SCP to market traffic and there were two proposals originally proposal number one was used dscp for paul\u0027s number two was wind used dscp to and of these two dscp 21 the beauty contest with that still has problems and one good thing about dscp to is its allocated from the pool ending with zero which is my anna allocated google for standards action drafts so when this becomes our AC anna commit that allocation and it shouldn\u0027t be bleached by a toss bleacher because our ta\u0027s lecture that removes or zeros the first three bits of the core point will make these three bits 0 when they already were 0 and therefore the cold point survived so it\u0027s got good survivability and is there a better choice well then maybe because this bleaching that i mentioned causes other problems to other traffic which means that other the scps currently get remarked to the value to as they pass through the insula this is kind of a little bit of a nightmare and the me at least it means and something good to measure so i\u0027m going to talk in mahadji about some measurements we\u0027ve done to try and start off figuring out what happens when you use dscp to and does it get through i can tell you immediately the answer is yes just do you receive other traffic with dscp too "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:56",
    "text": "apart from the ones which try to set it the answer is yes under an awful lot of traffic if you go through the current internet so and we need to think about this and the big description here is do we pick a different code point to another one that it i think is an ERG presentation is does a does dhcp to get bleach to all zeros the answer is bad eighty ninety percent no but more than ten percent yes which is enough to pay attention yeah which is why you you really need to have a congestion control the running with this traffic classic the class of traffic okay and I think that\u0027s the debate and probably the mahadji presentation should go ahead before we do something David what you on do no comments welcome map RG tations very important my surgeon reaction to all this is first of all kudos to gori gori and students for doing this actual measurements of running code Wow quick round and one of the issues here is does the IETF no design something and to work in the real internet or do we just pretend that could point to have it being allocated and there boy isn\u0027t used that last one is the real tricky question well not I would like to suggest the the solution that I propose would propose it would be to assume that too is the right answer and then try and inventory the amount of harm that\u0027s going to happen from things that don\u0027t aren\u0027t compatible with that um I I\u0027m sorry I didn\u0027t see that this draft was on the agenda or I would have read it because this is something that this is actually one of the things I think is a huge missed opportunity for the IETF and one of the things that would buy us a huge amount of additional capacity we have all of these things in our pockets which are often using prime data to update when you should be updating at three in the morning and the total load just on that especially in the southern hemisphere is massive and and doing it right would make a huge difference I\u0027m 11 minor technical question which I wasn\u0027t paying attention to and I would have read is there a spec that the passive open loops back the bit the marking oh that would be lovely how are we going to do that the TCP we could do it I\u0027ll be yes I\u0027m interested in that but the spec doesn\u0027t have a way of doing especially that one sentence is seems to be out of scope on everybody\u0027s document and that one sentence is very important um and although it\u0027s still a little bit tricky with the stp because just because you market just too and it gets those two doesn\u0027t mean anybody actually treats it in the way that too is meant to be treated I understand that\u0027s one of the weird applying in the real world but but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:58",
    "text": "the fact is you have to you have to start somewhere this is a multi-party deployment and um the particular concern is for instance for uploading software if I touch the Installer I wanted to do it in the foreground if it runs on a timer at three in the morning I want to do it in the background and so to the application is the only thing that has a scope for knowing well how that bit should be set yeah he are either the TC p.m. chairs here Michael Scharf no okay because Matt my reaction to that question is if I passive open we mean TCP passive open that\u0027s going to wind up as a tcp em topic if we mean a quick quick whatever quick is going is is going to do is kind of what it\u0027s is going to wind up there so how language is different with the semantics are the same the point is if you\u0027re a server and a client connects to you you want to echo whatever you thought the client said the other hand I\u0027m hard put to recommend a drill a hole RFC for one sentence much it well even though if you are saying them so this sentence has no scope and the others the other one sentence that doesn\u0027t have any scope that is that is very similar is if you\u0027re doing TCP you should really turn on don\u0027t fragment that sentence is also missing everywhere no idea what do like DF but I the ecn sentences could be carried in this draft we just have to make sure that those two working groups had a good hard look at it at work or glass call time I think it could but I\u0027m not sure that\u0027s necessarily the right thing to do in this draft and it might be the right thing to do though in the idea me I could have been I mean actually you should know better than I do but I mean the measurements you did where you were just using trace road and you get if you would get back icmp you have the information you\u0027ve been asking for unfortunately I see if he doesn\u0027t work very well but like that\u0027s what you want yeah sure I\u0027m okay so um any other questions on this draft I will come as an individual that I share Matt\u0027s preferred approach to this which is to feels like the right feels like a good enough answer though I\u0027m not gonna not not going to say it\u0027s got to be that the thing figure out we think the right answer is and work towards it for example we might want to won\u0027t want to invoke gifts or architecture basically say if you\u0027re going to use this then you\u0027ve got to do the traffic conditioning at the at all the edges network as opposed to just as opposed to just shouldn\u0027t pray and with 0 as neither the churn or the Nordic "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:59",
    "text": "representing the author I like diff circle point 5 which presents you with little iono allocation question but when you see my talk in my power you\u0027ll discover it works amazingly well cool so we need ok back and the chair now sought enough three girls at this I read this draft because I\u0027m we\u0027ve talked about scavenger for a long time we should have written this draft like 10 years ago 20 years ago well Matt\u0027s older me okay we should written this draft quite some considerable time ago and something\u0027s changed significantly and people are really deploying networks that can carry dscp s through them there\u0027s a lot of work to get that fully deployed knows a good opportunity to actually write this draft and get it out there so please comment please discussed on the mailing list and pending discussion and map RG we need to sort of hold needs to hold a finger to finger to the wind that\u0027s not blowing this room and figure out what the right milestone date is I\u0027m pretty sure base and discussion for right now the current may milestone date for this is is wonderful is wonderfully premature I\u0027m inclined to go for it to go for September in the hope that another meeting cycle will help what\u0027s going on here okay and we can have more measurement data up Prague for certain I mean I doubt we\u0027re going to have a clue a resounding conclusion of exactly what to do coming out of out of out of this week all right let\u0027s try September if you can get done maybe even get baby we can get done fast snap let\u0027s let\u0027s try September okay I see Bob Brisco in the inn in me dekho i think next up i believe is okay who\u0027s speaking for the UH these two in cap trash I\u0027m John Lowe okay all the best anyway cool excellent so what Johnson isn\u0027t Mike the intent of the working group chairs is to permit oh ok I don\u0027t think I have the slides John so we probably need to plug you in are they in their track you I track or gates I all right let me slides it there all right I need to go pee animal is hang on a minute here while David\u0027s getting things set up and this documents being around for a while so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:00",
    "text": "will hear an update on it and it\u0027s one of the pair of documents so we\u0027ll consider its progress with respect to that but um we got sides working on yeah okay this is where you find the slides they\u0027re here and if you click on this and easy and get guidelines having Bob just own version 8 get closer to Mike the better LOL ever i can eat the mic sorry alright so this is the e CN n cap guidelines version 8 was stored this morning and just to go over there I mean this has been ready since July 2016 the main purpose of the draft was to catch systemic ecn layering problems and this work has been laced with iti Tripoli and 3gpp and has got positive responses all of this is being updated in the draft the latest updates i think we\u0027re with relation to the protocols goo and Geneva and also a whole bunch of other protocols trill VX lan and so on i mean basically the mechanisms of feet forward and up and feed up and forward they\u0027ve all been outlined and completed in this draft the last set of comments i think that were addressed one was about a master a shirt that\u0027s been addressing the draft and lastly it\u0027s the RFC 6040 update xem that has some dependencies to this that needs to be welcomed that\u0027s what gori was referring to so go to the next page here I think I got that draft wrong it\u0027s not the troll draft but it\u0027s the RFC 6014 xem that should be there that has some dependencies on it and penis should both put procedure the working group class altogether are can this be handled separately that\u0027s the less I see ok so my preference and I think I\u0027m as I believe in the Shepherd for these has been to working a blast called player because they\u0027re fundamentally about the same class of ecn mechanism in two different contexts and I prefer simply to the last column as a pair that way we can we can get them get that get them consistent if I understand what you just said correctly nothing\u0027s waiting on the main ecn of the main ec endcap guidelines draft the one thing we have waiting is waiting on 60 40 shim draft and so that\u0027s that\u0027s the thing that that unlock chant that would unlock Jim everything so comments when "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "group working group are more than welcome something once it once you want to move faster Mike right now I\u0027m inclined just just just to call them as a package so that we get these two together and people who are thinking about this look look at both the same time does anyone in the working group want to progress this particular draft faster than the other would you like to say okay I have one other observation and this particular draft then that John presented here and hasn\u0027t really changed that the last update is simply to reply references with newer references so if we heart reviewers for this draft we could get the reviews in early against this draft prior to the working group last call together does anybody wish to volunteer to review this for an early review okay and we can ask is anybody else oh one over here yes and where is the red button the red button is here push the rig button i think that lets go to speak we\u0027ll see if this works well that\u0027d be exciting hi hello we can you hear Lee yes um I just wanted to clarify that actually the statement on your slides John was also correct in that the trill draft is approaching work increased group last call and it does depend on each end cap n cap but does it also depend on 6040 update shim no all right okay and the working group ja chairs will talk to the trill chairs and good things will happen but we will need more than one reviewer for this draft as we go forward and so please somebody else volunteer to review this Donny strike okay great so we have a couple of reviewers will see if you\u0027re reviewing this please we please review this current version that will be helpful to the working group and if we end up finally postponing the working group last call to do the two together will accept those reviews at that time as well as being done is there anything else we can add Bob no I\u0027m fine thank you thank you Bob did you join us anything about the Eastern and cap draft on shims I\u0027m not really much to say I I just didn\u0027t get around to updating it that there\u0027s some to do bits in it which have basically just got to give specific "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:05",
    "text": "text that updates each of the other PS is you know at the moment it just says a general statement of how they should be updated and I was asked to give specific text and I haven\u0027t done that do you have an ETA for that yeah I think I promised it by May or something like that there was an email like sent about it I can\u0027t remember whether I\u0027m being consistent saying the same date again just tell us the truth may nag okay okay anybody got any comments on the shimmer draft okay i think we\u0027re probably done for today we\u0027re okay we\u0027re the blue sheets I don\u0027t like me in your closets you "
  }
]