[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "I love it everywhere like immediately looks down at their laptop it's like let me just make sure that the checkout so yeah in case anybody's afraid of taking notes all we really care about is the decision points you don't really need to do the play-by-play um there's some people in here that speak pretty quickly so I don't know if that helps anybody willing to uh well thank you I mean don't work don't get me wrong I'm one of those people that speaks really fast to you but I appreciate it thank you yep um also I'll be watching the zulup room but if anybody else wants to help um so if anybody wants anything on the mic then they're in the in the chat room you can put you know Mike colon and then your comment and we'll get it right out at the microphone and if we miss it keep pestering us all right I think uh we're going to get started uh welcome to TLS at ietf 115. we have note takers and so let's um if you're watching this already you probably already know about the meeting tips but please uh we'd like to use the uh uh the the tool the on-site tool to keep track of the meeting queue so please join that uh so your attendance is taken and so that you can put yourself in the line to go speak at the mic anything else we need here let's see uh and uh please uh note The Mask policy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "and please wear your mask when you're not uh speaking or maybe let's see uh by this time you should be familiar with the note well so uh just uh a reminder of a code of conduct and rules of participation there we go so uh TLS working group has been pretty good in recent times but we'd like you to make sure that you please treat each other with respect um and keep the contributions uh technical okay I think we have uh we have two note takers even this is going to be a great meeting um and again log into the on-site tool uh and also when you speak at the mic it's always good to uh let us know who you are so that we can note it in the minutes properly we do have a fairly full agenda um but we should be able to get through it all I think in our time okay you want to do right so since last time we had two rfcs published they were actually published during the the week the days after the uh the last time we met but it's RFC uh 9257 guidance for external pre-shared Keys um usage in TLS and an accompanying one that was 9258 for importing external pskas for Tails 1.3 we have delegated credentials in the queue um Nicks out for a couple of months but Richard Barnes has nicely uh agreed as co-author to kind of as one of the co-authors to take over and Shepherd that through so we're in the process of trying to get that done we have two drafts that are kind of paused um maybe we could consider redoing those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "after we get this current crop done um the rrc for TLS 1.3 and 1.2 draft is through working group last call I actually think through multiple working group last calls it is waiting on me to do the write-up I will get that done shortly and then we'll progress that forward I did note already there were a couple of things missing out of it like there's not a security consideration so we kind of got to fix that before I send it to fall um compact TLS has expired I don't I don't think that's means it's going away permanently I just think that uh we we the authors got uh got busy doing something else and today we're going to talk about uh 84 46 bits 84 47 bits the well-known ech config list um and uh another draft the encrypted client hello is kind of in pause mode at this point um while they're still getting implementation experience and the hybrid ke um in TLS 1.3 is kind of in the same boat um and snip I think we're just kind of there's not much to it we're just kind of waiting for people to like see what they think about it and then eventually we'll get to it so I'm hoping maybe in the next cycle Maybe by March or slightly after March we'll be moving that one forward next please and we have two expired drafts so maybe at the end if we have some free time we can talk about them is David Benjamin here but anyway we can um maybe talk about these two drafts because they were things that we adopted and they kind of stalled and that's it so I think now unless there's any questions or any further agenda bash we're gonna hand it over to Ecker to talk about 8446 bits so just uh since since we asked about ctOS um yeah this is still a live item um I just proved in PR's for been there today and I'm not I think he may have just forgotten just a minute because like like he was like approve my PR as like in public so I think he just forgot um so we can we can take care of that um so um as people know um you know we were"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "gonna quickly Revenue 446 to to fix some terminology issues and to clarify some points that as usual turned into a five-year Mission well I think like a one and a half year Mission um but there it is so I'm hoping to terminate that mission today um so the current status is I had a bunch of outstanding uh PRS I merged them um nobody seemed to eject I did run someone by people um check the change log if you disagree um and of course we'll have a working across call so you could disagree then there are a few outstanding PRS and open issues which I hope to mostly resolve now with the objective of like cranking on new version and being done um next slide so I'm just going to work through the things that are um that continue to be outstanding is that they are um so first we had this PR um 1275 or on unsolicited extensions so the uh the backstory here is that the I thought the text was supposed to say and I think everybody else thought the texture was supposed to say that basically um you couldn't send extensions that the other side hadn't offered um but when we rewrote the text to sort of talk about request and response extensions um the um uh Jonathan hoylan felt that so on your call that like so the pattern here is like ch um contains like offer like requests and ee contains responses and Jonathan hoyland um I think came to conclusion that perhaps you could send extension requests that were in request mode in ee because they were request not responses that was not the intention um so um this PR basically attempts to make that clear um it was actually Bank it was for that clarification I don't see him here so um if anybody disagrees with assumptions here um you know please say so um and if you don't describe the substance here um you know take a look at the text or don't and I'm going to merge it okay next up um so um we did a bunch of sort of hand ringing around key update limits in um RC 9147 for dtls"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "um uh I um we realized afterwards that those update limits actually apply just as well to TLS and so we pulled them in here um um we had some text that kind of went through like the process and I merged it in and Mt was sort of I and I put a PR up for It MTV like this text isn't actually very good which I think it has some Merit as a point um so I think there's really a question of like do we want to just like not be consistent versus try to work this text I can go either way um if anybody I feel strongly about it and now's a good time otherwise Martin and I will just work it out great next up we're going to burn right through this um so um we had a bunch of discussion about what to do with bogus tickets um and in the last time we discussed this I suggested we should add a new alert that would say like invalid ticket or ticket invalid or something and I in fact wrote up a PR for that which is this PR and then the process that I noticed we actually added um previously unknown psk identity between 80 40 46 8446 and here and so my claim is that does the job for this and maybe a word Smith around they'll text around it but we should just close this PR so I propose to close the pr and again if somebody links like the description of unknown psk identity is bad then go ahead and tell me that's bad great next up um there's um finally um we have a PR from um John Matson about um there's all this text about how you can't use psks with certificates and 8773 updates that and the text kind of says like you can't do it unless there's a uh extension that says you can do it an a773 says you can do that um in light is sort of the confusion about the exact security properties this I need to carefully review this text um I'd appreciate if someone else would too but I think generally this is like probably on the right track um we just want to make sure there was there was like some very like close parsing of the exact text here in abundance and papers and so we want to be sure we clarify it we actually clarify rather than declarify yeah I mean and the nice thing is it's like two sentences yeah so it's not like it's super complicated so I'll again I'll"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "bounce off other people what else is that I said that um next slide finally we have two open issues um raised by David Benjamin uh clarifying the behavior hrr um I'm not here to tell you the behavior of hrr is entirely clear but I am here to tell you that after many discussions we have not we have not we have not come to a conclusion that made anybody happier um and so um and we discussed last time the put was either someone comes up with a proposal to actually improve this text that we can agree on which nobody has done or we just say like Hey we're going to leave it the way it is um I want to free frame this discussion by pointing out that the purpose of this draft is to clarify 8446 and make it better and this text is the same text as an 8446 which is no worse and if we can't improve it we are clarifying A lot of other things and so being finished is a feature and I propose you defer these and then we can always if people feel like that to clarify even more later um we can do so my my suspicion is this will turn out to be pronouncing a substantive change not just a clarification and so probably like I prefer to defer someone feel strongly about it and David and I talked about this a bit and he didn't have any I think so you know everybody sort of timed out when I talked to David he was kind of like I don't even remember exactly what I wanted to do here so um never be trying to reconstruct the state here seemed very difficult so I posted it for these this is it so um I'm not hearing any objection to any of this stuff um so this is like your next to last call for this um oh empty yeah do all of these things and then we'll be done and as you say finishes a feature I don't want to make substantive changes yeah to the protocol that was at all yeah so if David's entertaining that sort of thing then I would oppose that okay clarification is fine but sounds good I see somebody else but I can't see if they are rich thoughts uh is able to document what the ambiguities are and the perfectly reasonable answer is no I think probably very difficult fine"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "um okay so I will I will finish these things um and I will produce a new draft and we can let's call it so I'll let you know that my long-term plan is is not to stick Ecker with this this idea but I'd like to move this to internet standard I know some of you think that's great some of you could give a sorry but um good don't care less but um in six months we can do a protocol action and just move it because there is enough deployment and there is enough interoperability I may need to lead on some of you to make sure that the features are actually all implemented properly blah blah blah but I think we can we can write a small interoperability or I can write a smaller for operability report that you as implementers review and then we can move to um we can move it can I ask you a question does that require a new RFC number or do we just no I think I can do it in place so just will save from Place standard on top but it actually David uh David schenazi deployment Enthusiast uh if we've managed to make IPv6 a full standard we can probably make trs13 a full standard well yes I'm the person who thinks this is dumb because I just think we should have one standard standards level so that's that's but I'm happy to have other people do work I fully agree with all of that all right great thank you yeah please click to share how about your chair all right cool all right so this is for RFC 84 47 bits which is the ionic considerations for TLS um 1.3 uh So currently this draft is written so that it obsoletes 8447 which means it takes all of the text from 8447 and then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "tries to modify it in place which is really kind of very confusing and difficult to read and difficult to review and I think it'll be difficult for Ayanna to apply so I kind of I'm proposing we just make it update so we can just include the changes it's much less awkward and easier to deal with I've done that with Section seven and I'll do that with the rest of the document unless somebody really likes it the way it is is there anybody objects to making an update now I mean I I think this is kind of an editorial thing and again remember this whole document is instructions for Ayanna and at the end of the day whatever is easier for them to understand I think is probably a good thing and they're like should was updates throughout the document made it kind of confusing you know like at least the Laurie was like what are you trying to say here so hope people will forgive me not getting the queue I'll do that shortly um I've seen a number of times when the isg gets very bad out of shape about these kind of diff documents and so I guess I would just like make sure our ad is happy with that with that plan um because if they're if not then like we'll be you know we then we'll be back here like in two months so I don't object but like I just like want to make sure I fly that okay and while Paul's walking up I'll just quickly add David scanzi uh in general I prefer obsolete documents because then you read them you have the whole picture in your head except hear what it what matters is not the document it's the website that Ayanna runs so this sounds perfect that would actually be the argument I would make with the isg follow-up is 80. so normally the reason for a div document is that people are afraid that they're going to open up a can of worms on other changes in the document and so they just want to specifically say this if that div we don't want to read argue and we discuss"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "the entire other bulk of the document I think it doesn't apply here so in that sense I think the diff does not make any sense whatsoever yeah great yeah so we'll we'll get this uh revised as an update so that it is clearer uh within the next couple weeks um rich what's up rich hi Rich Sauls is one of the designated experts it's not just Diana who cares um and it's fine if it's simpler it seems I've read both versions and yeah we can follow the directions either way great um next slide so uh we added some text as to what uh d should mean so because now if you remember we've added we have in the recommended column yes no and d and here we say d the item is discouraged and should not or must not be used that's the text that we propose right now um we'll have time to resolve that but if people have uh comments it would be great to get them now yeah go ahead yeah yeah whatever I'm not the cue thing takes too long to get into um so uh who chooses the should or the must or the should not on the must not is that just based on yeah I think it was intended I don't remember why we did this I think it was intended that it depends on what the context is um you might have uh some items that are are discouraged and they're only applicable in certain contexts so unless you're in that context of you know yeah it's kind"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "of weird to put sort of normative language in the registry in this way because it applies to things that have their own um each one of the things with a D in there probably has a document describing why it's bad idea right so um maybe just like end end of the sentence um yeah it's discouraged as described in the in the linked documents or something like that yeah I think that would be better I I tend to agree that this should not and must not seems to be excessive at this point uh yeah plus one to what Martin just said okay any other uh comments all right then we'll we'll uh reorganize this so that those uh normative uh should nuts and must knots are not there anymore next uh then we uh we also added some text to the policy registration policy saying that as standards action oh sorry that isg approval is required for uh transitions from yes to no yes to discouraged or discouraged to yes or no and we probably could clarify that text a little bit um but that's the policy that we have outlined for this and I think that's reflects what we've discussed previously any other uh Martin is this every state transition yeah into y"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "so it's not simply say um I asked you approval is necessary for all other state transitions so I I reviewed this text because we were copy and pasting it for MLS and I convinced myself at least that it did cover all the state transitions because it talks about entering the y or n States requiring approval and then the conditions for moving from either of those to D so I think I think that covered all three legs of the triangle yeah I I think I'd prefer if it was a little clearer I think the goal is you know isg approval for all um State transitions um and then standards action for for getting a y that's so you're saying for All State transitions it's uh this basically this last sentence should be for all their state transitions uh isg approval is required yeah or all other because we we have the adding a value of y to recommended requires standards action right so if you're going from D to y That's standards action uh which is in contradiction to the next sentence already yeah yeah right yeah I think that would be simpler it's good um my question is not about the slide it's uh more generic so I'm going to let Paul jump in first so it may take a little bit uh Paul just speaking as myself is there a reason like if you're redoing this part anyway is there a reason why we're using one letter abbreviations like are we trying to save money on the website so it fits in the columns I mean it just it's a it looks horrible when you put it in the document spins across there's a note in there to explain what it is so yeah it's just it is a single letter"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "that we have in the column because they're so long and like think of The Cypher Suite names but there's other places where it's explained what that means I mean yeah we we could expand it out here um but in the in the call middle I think it's better for a single letter David um David schenazi um so that from looking this looks like it's your last slide and I followed an issue on the document a few weeks ago and no one has commented on it so I figured I'd just come and tell you all about it so I can get opinions um which is the Explorer labels registry is currently specification required and we were using an Explorer for something internally at Google and I was like well crap now we're just gonna squat on it because we just can't put a create a specification for this specific thing given that it's a string registry with infinite room can we just make it expert review since we're opening the can of worms uh feel free to tell me it's how to scope well I I mean we we could certainly make a change like that in this document but I thought that it was only specific prefixes that were extension I mean uh not not currently it's the entire thing huh okay Switching it to the being like that for a specific prefixes so I'm totally fine by me I just want a some room where I can reserve something without make it having a spec yeah well David you can just generate a random uid and put your things after it um so I think for so first of all I think specification requires the wrong standard in any case because what we've been doing is the way because specification required is the I guess some unclarity whether it incorporates IDs and so the way we handled it everywhere else was we made an expert review and then said id is good enough and so I think a minimum we should do that for this topic I think that that's I thought that was we did that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "universally for all the Registries well I guess I'm Davis used to think we didn't um I I haven't checked myself um but I guess I would be supportive of this change in fact I'd be supportive I think generally of the change like um like I think I think I think this plan we had of like you know making incredibly easy code points was like super successful and you know and I actually wonder if like we should make it even easier and be like you know like an email will be sufficient and like with no description of the mechanism um you know um you know these spaces are not the reason we did this because these spaces were not the reason so the reason we require a specification was not out of some like rate limiting exercise to make it hard to get the code points but was merely out of like I think a kind of um a good government theory about having a good to have things on the internet documented um um but I think that like maybe that was like the wrong Theory but in any case um you know uh so I wonder I wonder I wonder if we should make an even bigger car about this as maybe a document required the document could just say like need or neater we're not going to tell you what this does I mean so it it does it does have the language that we have for the other ones is sufficient to have an internet draft that is posted and never published or a document from another standards body unit consortia University site the thing with spec required is it's supposed to be public you're supposed to be able to get to it so David's Point still kind of stands right well I guess I guess I'm wondering would it be sufficient to have to have a to have have a redacted description of the protocol and again like maybe maybe the answer is merely first come first serve I guess I just again I do what I do want to encourage people to have specifications to be better for the internet but I also don't want to make it I don't think it serves any useful purpose to make it impossible to get code points if you're not going to publish what your thing is yeah yeah go ahead well I mean that's why I was thinking um expert review because first come first serve sure you probably don't want me registering tls14 and Ecker stinks um but if it's you know anything like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "there's no point in saying you have to publish something and that thing can be empty like that's what expert review means you know okay um I think we'll uh kind of review this and I think submit a PR and we'll we'll review it like every other time so um so David's out yov so just to make sure I understand um standard section implies isg approval because all rfcs are approved by the ISD so if the working group wants to do uh say chapter 20 die die document that's a fine way of turning that from y to n you know hold on sorry I wasn't sure if you wanted to speak more uh I just so this came up in another meeting this week too about where a draft can can be considered a specification as in per specification required so I'll take this to the IEC as a discuss item because like like we need to figure out but my view is that a draft gets you at most an early allocation and either your draft expires and then your early allocation expires or it becomes an RFC in which case you are an RFC so I don't consider a draft a publication in the sense of publication required but I'm going to verify that with the rest of the iuc so just to be clear we litigated this last time when we did it this particular RFC 8447 it's like this was a point of discussion and so we that's why the text is in there about it could be an internet draft that never gets published so it literally can get published and expire it's still available because it's publicly available but it's not you know quote unquote active you can still find it in the repositories so let's try yeah let's just try to break apart two issues right one issue is um what the operational practice do we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "want um and the operational practices here to four has been that you need to describe the protocol and some level of detail in some some document which like someone could eventually see um including an ID and that was the consensus of working group in the consensus of the ITF and if we like wrote the wrong thing in the document and like with the wrong thing then we're like then we'll call this review instead of specification or whatever like for the IEC to tell us what to do on that respect right that's already that's already the way things are um I think what we're discussing now is a potential change change that policy which does not require the description of a full description thing at all right um and David I think I just wanted to like I saw you respond to what you're saying which is like um I'm trying to thread a needle here which is I would like people to document their protocols and I wish people would do so and I understand they may not and so I'm trying to figure out and maybe I'm just trying to be too clever but I'm trying to figure out some way to sort of vaguely encourage them to do so while also not requiring it and again maybe I'm just being too clever but that's that's what I was trying to accomplish with sort of okay an empty graph would be okay so I think it ends up being it but I think what we're talking about is first come first serve and then David asks a designated expert for an unofficial review that's essentially because otherwise we have to make a whole new process for what we're talking about right yes I mean like all of these are very well defined in the INF policy RFC and I expert review is fine and also for expert review you can add uh a note that is instructions to the experts that shows up on the Anna page and say like a specification is highly encouraged there with forexpert review that might be the simplest way to do this um I mean just to be clear the purpose the expert review in this like there there seems to me that the purpose expert review historically has been it is a reasonable allocation size like are you asking some ridiculous number are you asking for a misleading name and is the protocol specification like does it kind of exist right and so what were you talking about is relaxing that last that last Point um and I think you know I do I I think I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "don't want I think Chris Davis just because these are meaningful strings we don't want to have entirely first come first serve because we want to ensure like that that the first instance that someone doesn't register a string but like just as highly misleading um for I don't actually care less about this for the numeric ones where someone wants to register three you know register you know three one three three atom prefix singers I don't know all right any any other comments on this so you be if you want to propose a PR that would be awesome all right and then we can can review that any other uh Ayanna considerations comments all right so hopefully in a few weeks we'll have a revision of this and we might be able to take it to the last call I mean we'll we'll let Chris run that since we're we're the two authors and it would be wrong for us to do the I think that's his call so next time did you get it do you want it Nimrod do you want to share the slides or would you like me to you can do it through the share pre-loaded slides or I can do it yeah you're muted as well we can't hear you uh I've requested to share slides uh I think I need your approval to do that can you try to share again yeah sure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:07",
    "text": "you can also run the slides if that's easier oh all right here we go all right um so my name is Eric battle is also here and we shall never stop on our quest to defecate of Select key exchange methods in TLS uh this document is a working group item for some time it deprecates RSA key exchange in static finite Square DP Airman limits Finance field Defiance only in its fully ephemeral form to groups large enough to provide security and discourages static elliptic curve DVM the only open issue is around groups in ffdhe uh discussions on the mailing list concluded that uh clients are unlikely to verify the group structures and it's too expensive uh there was also the suggestion of creating a safe list for all safe groups but that seems impractical or at least unlikely to catch all safe groups on the entire internet so asking clients to verify the group uh oh about the connection if they can't is unlikely to work so for moving forward uh first we'd like to discuss uh a reasonable suggestion that was made but does not seem to have consensus several people have argued for deprecating ffdhe entirely and that is a reasonable position to take but that does not appear to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "consensus for that so uh in light of everything we said our suggestion is to impose no requirement around the group structure and uh we'd like to question to what extent this even matters so web clients have already disabled ffdhea and are not going to bring it back email clients are not going to about opportunistic TLS connections of a group structure issues um and this single issue is the primary thing holding back the drafts and surround itf-113 so we recommend moving forward with this compromise it is a compromise but it really doesn't matter much uh on the other hand uh this issue is the primary reason there is still no IDF document that formally deprecates RSA key exchange and deprecating RSA key exchange and other absolutely exchange methods would matter a lot so we strongly recommend moving forward with these suggestions uh thanks and I'm happy to take questions so I guess to drive this issue forward is there anyone that disagrees with the way forward as suggested we can do a poll and then take it to the list but if nobody I I don't know what what do we think is the best way forward here maybe we should just do a poll and get it on get it on record and then we can take it to the list for an actual consensus call to kind of nail this that sound good all right let me see if I can work this whole thing countdown clock event map where's the pull show of hands tool title"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "speak please go ahead yeah hi there Daniel can Gilmore um so I'm trying to understand uh over in the chat um Europe asks a reasonable question about who's the who's proposing deprecation here and uh Ben Schwartz well so I think the idea is that opportunistic TLS clients you said email clients here I'm pretty sure you meet SMTP clients who are in opportunistic mode which is different than email clients don't don't those same opportunistic clients have the same concerns about all the other key exchange applications I mean if you're doing opportunistic TLS surely uh RSA key exchange is better than nothing um so if that's the object if the objection is coming from opportunistic clients who would effectively fall back to clear text then I don't see why that complaint is any different for private field 50 element than it is for anything else so you know your last question is who's uh who's opposing the deprecation if the opposition is coming from opportunistic folks can we just make a carbot here and say opportunistic clients can do whatever they like um and then go ahead with saying the explicit deportation what's the like who's who's actually blocking the consensus I'm not saying bring anything back I'm just saying obvious declines are simply not going to do this right they know that their fallback is clear text they're not going to follow this this guy um so the opposition to full ffd deprecation came uh mostly from uh I think Victor dukovy uh Victor are you here by any chance although uh should I represent your position to the best on viability uh all right I guess Victor isn't here so uh I think his take was that um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "it's quite feasible for uh SMTP clients to deprecate RSA uh with their update cycle which is low and then we would get finite field DPM one is uh I don't know if the primary key exchange used in that ecosystem but like a a key exchange with like a noticeable market share and it would be with custom groups because of uh advised that uh was given to operators of of SMTP servers to generate their own custom groups I'm aware of that that situation I just don't understand why he'd be okay with accepting a deprecation of RSA key exchange as well because they they wouldn't have to fall back to clear text they they expect ffdhe is supposed to be widely prevalent I see this is what is preventing them from having to fall back to their decks to get the other stuff through and still claim to follow those gadgets I'm sorry could you repeat that okay the argument is as long as we have ffdhe to fall back to this is what allows us to deprecate RSA yeah yeah okay so what if we say opportunity can we can we do a kind of deprecation that says if your other choice is falling back to clear text if you will actively fall back to clear text that fdhd is okay if that also applies to the web that sounds there's no one on the web who does there's no one on the web who's willing to fall back to clear text uh do you know if you know the website that's willing to fall back to clear text for an https connection I would like to know will you just go up top and you delete the s the edit the URL I'm sure you can you can find a way to go alert somebody if they do that but I don't think that's relevant here yes so I'm not sure I'm familiar with uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "the policies of all browsers on the matter but I think there are still some unencrypted web connections somewhere on the internet that's not that's how dkg is saying what dkg is saying is that the reference the reference in the URL tells you what you'd expect um tell us or not some browser will upgrade to https even if you type HTTP that's what that's what I was going to say is it turns out that the arc that there are browser settings now which will tempt https first and then we'll fall back to http um I think um I can just tell you we are not we would not be interested that that be that as it may we would not be interested in like supporting these other Suites um uh you know we wanna we're not with the same policy for every uh for for every uh connection because otherwise um I can tell you why if you really care but it's like really nice it's about the web security model and it's not really that interesting um but um but I think more generally I'd like to understand the scope of the problem here like how many if we just were to say like you know if if if we if we were to like have a requirement that was a requirement structure um how many connections how many things would really go from like in groups of divine text and if the answer was small I'm going to go back to good government and ecosystem again which would be better if everybody's doing good things so sure how big is the scope with so imagine we were to like deprecate ffd entirely just as a is a strong counter example as a strong point how many connections would go from encrypted to clear text what fraction I think email clients like sntp clients would probably ignore the deprecation no but imagine they didn't imagine they didn't ah so uh according to Victor uh uh much of the email ecosystem would stop being encrypted in transit uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "what's much five percent ten percent I did try to interest people who are good in generating these statistics um but I haven't had such luck so I guess my position is like this is we're not going to send people out to like people's houses and make them turn off design for sweets or in the data centers um I mean you know I will be over it I'll be over you know send grid later but uh I'll just take care of that um but I mean more seriously like so like we our point is to require people to do smart things and if like people and and like we I think the policy the ietf is we'd like people to transition from finite field to helmet to elliptic curve to feel and um and so if Ryan's are trying to like create this like intense negotiation about exactly what tests we should say we should tell people not to do this the thing we think is bad and then like the email guy's gonna ignore it for a while and or they don't ignore it but like like our positions they should do something in particular and now I'm not like I'm I'm a little unclear what the options are and exactly what recommendation we should make we should make the right recommendation and not make a silly recommendation just because some people are behind um the other thing is that if we tell if we if we tell clients do not negotiate find a field of the element and there are some SMTP servers that do that and anybody is running SMTP servers that is when they act as as SMTP clients they do disable that all of the servers that are the old ones that we are scared about suddenly dropping our connections to codex will see their percentage of fair text connections go down if they're looking at the stats if they care and they see those things go down they'll say okay we need to add the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "cards if you helmet I mean if this is black like the other thing so Ecker thank you for your your observation of the https only or https preferred modes for browsers those modes should be Universal as far as I'm concerned if we make the text say you know must not accept finite field home and key exchange unless uh but uh in in standard TLS mode in optimistic mode May accept ffdhe that doesn't require browsers to accept ffdhe in in their uh mode it just gives a carve out so that SMTP clients like Victor's are willing you know who are clenching at the nfdhe straws for their five percent of whatever their connections are like like it just seems that that is at least a clearer statement uh I agree with that Generation Um like I say even I don't speak for any other browser um um but like I can't see us um I can't see us doing um like I can't see us apply in different policy optimistic versus optimistic mode um because like I say the the those are the same origin and so if you do that the security properties get very weird all right Martin please go ahead yeah so um I think I think the the split the dkg just articulated is probably the right one um I don't I don't actually see what we do in browsers and they sort of forced upgrades to https or opportunistic upgrades as to TLS really as being an opportunistic mode at all we're just um we're just applying the same policies that we would for https anyway um so I think I think the the sort of email opportunistic security stuff can get a little bit of a free pass on these things but um I'm sort of on the on the in the sort of direction"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "of saying well put your requirements on the groups or whatever validation that you can and then um say that you can if you're doing an opportunistic mode you can you can do anything you like really at that point it seems to be Victor's attitude towards the um to the use of opportunistic TLS he'd be happy with rock 13. uh I'm sorry so you're saying uh you're not saying deprecate ffdhe entirely are you you're saying move forward with group structure requirements but but those are interactable or at least they seem to be uh do I have your position correct so I'm I'm essentially saying that we leave we leave the curve out if you if you don't care about security as a baseline then we don't really care what you do in the in with respect to this particular requirement which I think is what dkg was saying yes so just to make sure I understand where are we going with this discussion so the suggestion is to uh have the most stringent requirement uh applied to non-operogeneistic DLS connections um and for opportunistic connections basically yellow uh if if I didn't get that correctly please correct me ah you have please go ahead yes so um my my suggestion is just deprecated entirely and if if somebody can't stand it then they don't then they don't comply with the new RFC and we've had this before and if they can't if they can't get there I mean if you're using open SSL then you're then you're fine anyway because it has had the ecdh essence I know version one and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "um if you're using something worse than openssl then you should be using something at least as good as open as yourself all right um okay so number and I just wanted to double check I know that dkg is offered to put uh synopsis of what he proposed in the text for all of us because up here the audio is pretty horrible so I'm not sure I caught all of it but Nimrod do you have a good a good feel for the way forward um so one of my forward is to move with our suggestion uh and just be done with it but I I think that's not the consensus of this discussion uh the consensus of this discussion is um for a non-opportunistic TLS connections deprecate ffdhe entirely or require anything that is necessary to make it safe that would include group structure for opportunistic TLS connections uh uh either um that that other you can do whatever you want or you can fall back to ffdhe without any requirements I think that was the gist of it uh Ecker would you like to speak how about Kyle okay yeah sure kind of efforts um I'm a little worried if we start to have this carve out for opportunistic clients here um where is this going to end I mean you could use say this for pretty much every single issue um what about any kind of specific validation of any kind of uh guidance we've ever um any protocolvers and um ciphers and I'm not sure why this specific issue is somewhere where we should makes a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "specific carve out um as opposed to recognizing that this is probably an issue that the opportunity clients are it's going to decide not to follow a recommendation anyway yeah I I agree with God uh also there's a this would beg the question of what counts as opportunistic so if there's like a a credit card processing or anything like that does that count as opportunistic so I think we're opening up the Pandora's Box to be honest uh but uh yeah David uh please go ahead uh David skanazi consensus Enthusiast um so just for future reference I highly urge you to never you know put no consensus on your slides because you're just like kind of painting yourself in a corner and either way it's the chair's job to declare if there is consensus or not so I'm gonna do something that's both gonna help and be a pain in the ass you're welcome uh I'm gonna say that this opportunistic thing I don't like it and I'm strongly opposed to it there so now number two is also no consensus um so we can go back to looking at option one which might become a rough consensus if there are only a small number of people who don't like it so I'm just trying to help fair enough so I mean I think the point here is that we haven't actually done a formal consensus call it's just been kind of the author's kind of reading the tea leaves for all the mail list if we're stuck on this point and in a deadlock and we have to pull up the heavyweight consensus email do all that stuff we can do that I just need the words that I'm going to put in the consensus call and so we can work to try to get those um and actually get that going so what I would personally propose and of course it is the chair's preview to decide is to say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "option one like do we have consensus on deprecating entirely and I would encourage anyone in the room who disagrees with deprecated entirely to please come and state why so we can we can actually do that via the this is there's two reasons I want to get you to log into the tool because one it determines room size so next time we're not in some tiny rooms sweating our you know spreading our faces off so we could actually do that and do a general Poll for if there's any any get a sense of the room of whether or not there's any objections to deprecating ffdhe so um John Thompson I think that the arguments I've heard since I last stood up here pushed me towards option one deprecate ffdhe entirely option two deprecate ffe without the the good groups which is a weak second because it requires a lot more text and is a little bit more vague I don't think we need to do anything for opportunistic clients David Benjamin found a quote from RFC 7435 which is the opportunistic security RFC that sort of talks about it and that basically says that if you um an opportunistic protocol May employ more liberal settings than would be best practiced when security is mandated by policy so basically they're already in this sort of carve out and someone who wants to do this can ignore this RFC that we publish now and follow the other one and everything's fine because they're doing opportunistic and that's that's totally cool so option one is depreciate what did you say option two again was uh just deprecate the the um the non the the groups that are not known as good which is not great um but I would I would certainly be in the in the option one Camp here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "the so and there was no third option so it's it would be and there is no third option as far as I'm concerned I I don't think we need to [Music] take the suggestion here that we was floated originally I don't think there's a there's any good outcome from that so I I think there are at least three options but uh so we can deprecate ffdg entirely we can allow ffdhe only with standardized groups and we can allow ffdhe with any safe group uh or we can allow ffdhg with any group large enough without requiring anything about group structure so that's actually at least four options that I'm aware of but I think we're going towards deprecating ffdh entirely uh to be honest I wasn't aware of the RFC quoted mating uh where opportunistic [Music] settings May employ more liberal policies uh that sounds like a good way forward to me um but yeah uh Stephen please go ahead all right Stephen Farrell uh so I I don't actually disagree with David on this really but I know that people do including Victor and he usually has some good arguments so I don't think it would be really correct to say we don't have any of the room today who disagrees I'm not saying you said that I'm just saying we should we shouldn't do that yeah so I think what I'm going to do is we're going to do a poll since the room and we'll have to take it to the mailing list again it's not it's because we know Victor's not here and I know he's going to have strenuous objections so yeah and and recent ones so and then the only other thing I wanted to say was I don't think option two is is I know there's any point in option two because as far as I know it's only Victor and that kind of you know set of deployments he's discussing that have an issue and they generally use custom groups so I don't think option two gets us anywhere"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "so option two being just have a safe list of groups that's not often doing in this line right but okay no option two as in uh Martin's option two ah all right all right I don't need any point and started saying you know it's so yeah so I think throw that one away and don't ask Apollo about that I would suggest yeah all right um anyone else wants to speak Echo yeah um so I I'm also concerned about the viability of option two for the reason Stephen is which I suspect it will actually not work um um um if someone showed me a measurement that would work I might feel differently so let's take a measurement and be like no actually all these guys use one of the defined groups then you know maybe that feels differently um but I suspect that it's not going to be false um the um I I guess uh um I mean I think you know the there seems to see some question there's a discussion on a chat about whether there already is enough of a carve out in the opportunity descriptions to Simply a honesty a must like I would I mean I can take this list but I would strongly prefer not to have like some weird explicit like opt out here like the purp like like the like again the instructions like we have how long did it take between like when we when we like said banned rc4 and we actually turned off our G4 I mean like like basically like every decade yeah we like routinely we like routinely pass these these these deprecations and then actually take quite a while to execute them on the purpose of deprecations is a single to people the way they should behave and that we're trying and so and like if and and I think it ought to be the position of this group that even opportunistic people should use good savers and that may not currently be practical but that's what they should do and we wish they would and so like the carve out for them is a the text in the previous document and B they can ignore us"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:05",
    "text": "and to quickly add to what Ecker said just gonna tell a quick story that is mainly Chris Wood's story but um he's enjoying his vacation go ahead um back I used to work at Apple with him at the time when the working group deprecated tls-10 and tls11 and he actually did all the work to removing like disable it from our general boring SSL code at the time uh and it blew up I forget if it was a male thing or an EP TLS thing or one of those things that like there's a box somewhere that hasn't been updated since I was born kind of thing um and that didn't mean we opposed publishing the RFC it just means that like that we had a thing there but we didn't add any text about that silly box we the the that code ignored the recommendation everything was fine so deprecating even if there are people that can't today is fine I'm just very strongly agreeing with Ecker I forgot the one more thing I wanted to say but um which I agree what you just said um which is that the purpose of this document in in of this this requirement in the context of opportunistic is to tell people in that ecosystem that they ought to be changing so that in a year they can turn it off and if we have an explicit carbon for opportunity the consequence of that is that they hear we don't have to change and so five years from another situation the ecosystem is unchanged and they still can't turn it off so so that's that's the reason not to have a car problems I mean that was part of why we did rc4 right like we did the rc4 draft because people were like please if you write something I can then go whack people over the head and get it changed so all right so I think what we've come down to we've had lots of suggestions for um various polls we're going to do a simple one which is do you support deprecating ffdhd um so please get to the uh feed Echo tool you will raise your hands if you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "support and you will not if you don't start it oh if you're seeing the uh rocketing live things and again we're taking this back to the list so there's 93 people in the uh room as you might be able to see and we've got about 30 35-ish people give it another minute uh would you like to speak hey John yeah go ahead if you've uh Richard are you remote I think you might have to come off all right so I think we got enough here so for the for the minutes it was 39 participants 34 raised hands and five do not raise hands all right so uh it sounds like we're moving towards deprecating it entirely um and I guess we take it to the list to get a Battlefield so I think that the action item is actually going to be on the chairs not on you so we will uh figure out the right phraseology to get this conversation going and I look forward to a polite yet Lively conversation on the mailing list all right I will be available if you'd like to consult me on the phrase analogy uh also Daniel would you like to speak again yeah sorry um I don't think that this poll was sufficient to say the move is towards deprecating it entirely like I raised my hand to say it I'm fine with deprecated entirely and I'm also fine with saying deprecate everything but a small list of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "known groups right I mean yeah fair enough uh dkg I think the the point is we want to at least have some place to start but we want us we want a strong we want a strong deprecation statement of some of some sort yeah yes that's that's really what that was all right thank you thank you nimrod we'll go through our next president all right so I think we're on to our next presentation which I believe is I've forgotten now I think it's Martin but I'm not sure sorry let me look at the actual agenda I think it is more I think it's Martin come on scruffing no it's Stephen oh Steven Steven the ech config list and this draft is significantly changed this is this is a uh this this is how you can adopt a working group draft without getting it done before you adopt it so I'm hoping the band joins the and since audio and video because this is kind of the banned version of the draft there he is great there he is great so I'm only Ben would present this if he was here but uh uh and do jump in Ben if you if you want to correctly so the base what we did was we had some discussion and Ben and Rich uh agreed to help co-author so what we did in this version is essentially try out to see if some of the ideas of Ben and Richard uh mostly Ben I think uh are something that the working group find better and so this is a suggestion we're not we're willing to roll it back if people prefer the zero zero version so zero zero basically described something I did and in a very small kind of test deployment whereas Ben and Rich are familiar with real deployments which is kind of useful so draft one I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "has been extended and to try and cater for a broader range of deployments in particular I guess the ones Ben is thinking about it's not implemented and if people tell us this is this just is totally smelly then we'll happily roll it back next slide so the background is same as last time ech requires you to publish a key in a config list and the DNS and I think one of Ben's goals is to try and do more in this version to avoid anybody cutting and pasting those values um so uh and but yes people will rotate keys so we need somebody to handle it and dynamically generate zones um and yeah so so yeah again another thing Ben wants he wanted to make it easier to do it a good way than the wrong way so next slide so uh what's different in this one is in zero zero you were talking to the ech front end essentially to get the ech config that the the zone the authoritative for the origin was talking to the ech front end to get the ech key and then to put it into the origins Zone in this one it's talking to the origin itself because that allows covering kind of more deployment cases that Ben thinks are interesting which is I think true um and it otherwise it's kind of similar that you're publishing a blob or Json added up well known which allows the Zone Factory to construct the relevant resource records next slide jump in and correct me if I say something wrong here so this is the picture uh for this one where we have the Zone Factory which creates the resource records and write some DNS it has to occasionally fetch values because keys are being rotated um and the origin in this case might have to talk to the ech front end"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "because uh that's where the the ech keys are actually being generated and so what you could think of is that the bottom part there in lighter blue is draft zero sort of whereas and then in this draft because you're going to the origin you can do a bit more so next slide and then there's a comparison between you know Json blobs and again I think we have no problem changing these in any particular way because they're they're pretty sketchy at the minute but basically it allows you to have the same kind of information next slide json's not that interesting and then these are the kind of https aurors that you might end up with uh I'm not entirely sure I know even I even know what a template horror is but I could kind of guess but I'm not sure how accurate that guest would be um but in any case the Zone Factory can use the Json to make resource records next slide this is the thing that's kind of new is that uh Ben I think rightly points out that the the draft zero kind of handles a like the kind of weird case that I was interested in for my test sites um probably many more people will just use a c name or something and he wanted to provide a way to make that a bit easier and a bit less error prone and so that's kind of the main reason why you want to talk to the origin I guess um so that's kind of a nice thing about it is that you can just create a Json blog but then eventually turns into a c name or one of the other ways of editing um which I think is nice on the other hand it also kind of feels a bit dangerous but I'm not quite sure why um but nonetheless this this version that I've envisages supporting that kind of use case which I guess would be by far the most common way of doing this uh but I don't know for sure I'm just pausing there in case Ben wants to add something or somebody wants to scream that this is mad for some reason"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "nobody's screaming okay next slide uh this still has the kind of support for the multi-cdn I you know I I wouldn't say we put a huge amount of work into this it probably needs a bit more thought a bit more working out and playing around to try and make it work uh but it should work I think uh basically where you can you can pick up these CH keys uh from the cgn and then put them on the origin it's essentially this is like saying that you know do the draft zero thing between the origin and the CDN and then you'd use this to get the resource records created so it's a little bit of a two-step thing uh put your work next slide Ben prefers I had you know in version zero we had ttls in the Json uh Ben prefers to use HTTP freshness I don't know if that makes sense uh if I have a very simple kind of script that just uses Coral or something to pull these things I'm not sure how easy it is to get that but I haven't looked so maybe you can and again we you know I think as before it was pretty clear that people didn't want ordinary kind of clients for ech using these URLs so we should discourage us next slide uh yeah this template stuff for that we figured out uh uh there's probably with this version yeah there's probably some things about IP addresses and so on that might get tricky um I don't know I don't know what support for non-hps protocols means here but I don't know if I've been had mine when he put that bullet in and I guess some other HTTP things might have to be thought about all right uh hi thank you Ben okay uh yeah I I mean um uses of ech and TLS for things other than http okay but what what did you have like Quake or something in mind or what some example or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "so last year even though I'm doing very badly presenting bands ideas I'm it's a good job I'm here so there you go uh yeah there's a bunch of things we figured out um so next slide I think is the last one is this okay that's that's the question uh it's well okay what do you think I mean you know do people have opinions um it might be a little bit can we ask how many people actually read the the this version of the draft yeah I see a couple of hands up there good and then well I'll be honest one of the reasons why I was concerned about this draft being in this working group is there weren't a lot of DNS people but at least there's a couple of people around here I know that are really smart about this stuff so don't be bashful now's your chance to learn so if people have any immediate reactions that would be useful because we're you know we're not it's not that this is something we're terribly invested in we're just we're looking for is this a better Direction than what was in Drive zero do you don't care so from a personal perspective I think it's it's better if we have a wider deployments in mind right so better better uh it's better if we have wider deployments in mind okay um any other feedback okay yeah I mean I think it's you know personally I I we need to be we kind of did this in the last few weeks so we we need to do more work on our treaty as well Ben did you uh yeah so uh okay sorry yeah my Miracle has not been stable for me this week the uh the the template thing is an attempt to balance this competing these competing desires on the one hand we're trying to stick to only talking about ech and information you need to know to make use of an ech config and on the other hand the ultimately"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "your HTTP your your Zone Factory is going to produce DNS records that have a bunch of other stuff in them that are telling you things like uh does the support HTTP 3 you know is this actually something about oblivious though like all this um uh all this different metadata about the origin and so we said you know let's focus on ech here and and leave that to the DNS side so that that means the Zone Factory has to know all this other stuff in advance all we're doing is is moving the ech keys across but then you need a matching algorithm you need some way to say well okay I've got I've got several endpoints with different ech Keys which one goes into which of those records and so that's that's sort of the templating idea here David hi David's kanazi DNS Enthusiast um first I think the more generic approach I I like it um just conceptually having a way to do this sounds good the so first a clarifying question how is your intent here that browsers always query this well-known on all websites so then the intention I'm sorry no no please go ahead the intention is that browsers do not know about this at all the client here is a Zone Factory which is a term that Stephen sort of uh appropriated for a component of an authoritative DNS server that is populating the zone oh I get it all right thank you yes Okay so so the feedback I'm getting is uh not crazy we're flashing out a bit more and we'll do that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "great thank you okay thanks thanks Ben Martin you're up next for our final presentation always great slides I was looking for more birthday party things uh this should be short I hope everyone knows what this is I'm not going to really explain it very much because the next slide uh has basically all that's really necessary on this point I know a lot of people use an environment variable of this name to to do debugging of their TLS stacks um I think it's pretty widely implemented not particularly widely deployed which is a good thing and um I think it feels like Wireshark and whatnot use this uh natively we also have a draft in some Ops area working group that um I think it's the Ops area working group that they're trying to define the pcap format in RFC form that's going to rely on this next place uh okay why so currently the authoritative documentation for this file format is sitting in the NSS Source tree that's not great it gets published on a web page it used to be published on n mdn and then they decided they didn't want all of this documentation and so it's now in the Firefox Source docs uh thing that's pretty hard to find and I think it's probably more appropriate that has a stable home the next slide so we take that documentation and we put it in an RFC that's it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "um and the idea is to give change controls to the ITF next done foreign look at that very easy um I guess the question is uh is this work that this working group wants to take on should I ask an operations area working group instead I'd rather not so I can take a poll um if there's support for adopting this and then we can take it to the mailing list my excuse me my uh understanding is that this would be informational not necessarily standard track because it's not interoperability formats so to speak or are we in the minutia it is an interoperability thing I mean one stack produces something and some other tool consumes it uh there's an argument to be had here for for making it standards track all right I'm not falling on this sword for sure so let's just take a general pull off to see if there's interest and I will write that up now foreign azzi yes Melanie yeah yeah sorry Eddie I can't get my meat Echo to work so I couldn't get in the queues but but yeah no I think I support this work a great deal I think it's very very useful uh just just out of curiosity is there any I don't know if it's in scope or out of scope but um is there any thought of saying like that browsers or other things should Implement something like this just a question now there's there's a great deal of debate about this um even even within my own project there are people who would rather this not be enabled uh in release builds and and things like that uh it carries significant risks to both security and privacy to enable this thing and so uh rightfully people are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "concerned about uh implementing this this is not uniformly implemented as I understand uh there are a number of stacks that simply don't do this and that's okay some people don't need it so so Stephen question and a possible comment uh an inevitable comment uh but uh the question is to what extent does the current documentation uh contain warnings and guardrails uh it just tells you how to do it right so the current documentation is here's the format that's it right so the RSA has a large section on the privacy and security implications of recording one of these things and the information that's that's in there that's one of the changes that I've I've made okay sorry was there is there a drive published there's a draft published oh sorry I missed that slide I guess right there um okay so yeah I mean I I would actually strangely be supportive of documenting how to do it if we put enough text saying when not to do it in there and I that might take a quite a bit of wrangling I suppose take a look at what I put in there I I spent maybe an entire hour on this document so it's probably not complete but there is a fairly substantial section on you know what do you do when you've got one of these things what are the risks to the to the active connections and and the um connections that happened in the past that might be logged in this way and various other things right and and I I would tend to think this might be better as informational because I think that might make the fun fight a bit more attractable but I have a stupid question how's this different from pkcsa sorry the audio here is just horrific I can't pkcs8 that she said yeah how is it different than pkcs number eight eight oh eight the storage one you know uh that's the storage one yeah we don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "do anything fancy in terms of protecting uh the secrets here it's just yes plain text key hanging out here's some hex just in the thing so if you're in operating in fips mode and a lot of things you just can't do this for instance so then I don't care right right you probably don't care you you're one of those people who probably like I can't do this then I can't do this that's fine badge sorry um yes I don't care right because I'm going to make you do fips damn it of course yeah yeah so this is also yeah this is also more of like a stream of keys sort of format in the sense you can like pipe this out of a stack into a wire shark or whatever so it's it's pretty different from a container format all right so I have a pool ready to go which is just to get a sense of the room is there interest in working on draft Thompson Dash TLS keylog file IB in the TLs working group I will start that session now and give people some time to raise means yes you would like it to no means do not rise is not the absence of an answer it is the opposition yes to this stupid tool all right we'll give it about another 30 seconds so I'd be curious to hear why we would concretely not do this all right so it seems like we're stabling out at somewhere in the 30s and ding it all right so 33 participants 28 raised hands and five do not raise hands I'll end this session now and is there anybody who said uh who who kind of doesn't want to do this they're willing to get to the microphone to say why"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:03",
    "text": "okay all right thank you very much so I guess the only thing since we're actually done early for like once in like the last 10 years in like in like in the last in the last and so there's there's definitely some uh chatter in the room about just close the session but we have a few drafts that have been out that were adopted and then expired so I guess the question is what should we do with those the two that come to mind specifically are the batch uh signatures and the other one is the semi-static uh draft so I'm curious if if David Benjamin wants to get to the microphone and say anything about batch signing or if you'd like it to quietly go away um and not getting the microphone is a perfectly fine answer um so that we know not to keep harping on this and we can just kind of let it quietly just drift off into space David Benjamin um at one point batch signing Enthusiast but uh at this point I had like the the thing that I was interested in it for no longer happened it's it seems no one has picked it up like I think if someone wants it it's a cool mechanism but I don't have time to drive it fair enough no one else does either so so what we'll do is we'll it will it's it's expired we will let the process do its thing and it's expired and if anybody else wants to take it over and run with it we will uh they can contact us and we will see how we can go from there on the semi-static Becker orange is ahead of me in the queue oh sorry oh okay um so yes uh I still do care somebody static I think others do too it just I can only do about one thing at once right now so um so ask me again when 8446 business done okay great thanks Martin so I understand that there's some wife a chairs to sort of Mark a document as like abandoned or something like that right I suggest we do that drafts can be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:02",
    "text": "unabandoned at any time uh so for for the batch signing thing just say look we're not working on this right now well I mean it's like technically I believe it's actually expired and so it's it's actually fallen out of the working group um does that work does that happen for expired draft I think think expired drafts sort of have this still still have this sort of residual State thing that's in there yeah and they show up in the in the tracker and whatnot but if you mark them as a Banda they're sort of yeah all right I'll figure out how to press the buttons and yeah and we might not do that for the semi-static one yeah I mean yeah okay all right great and that brings us to a close 35 minutes 36 minutes early that is fantastic thank you very much have a great great rest of your day and if you're staying for the rest of the week the rest of the week ciao thank you to our note takers Florence and Mike if you helped that's great appreciate it all right foreign foreign"
  }
]
