[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:24",
    "text": "Thank you very much. I'm Martin Viguel, cochair of Gen Dispatch. shooting is online. Welcome to San Francisco. shopping will go through the chat slides. and then we'll follow-up with all your presentations Where is Lars? Lars, do you wanna say a few words? It's not here. It's not here. No. No. Yeah? Okay. shooting, your tone. But this can be genius."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:32",
    "text": "we seem to be having an audio problem with stripping give us few minutes Okay. Shipping doesn't seem to be can you release Do you hear us chipping at least Okay. Can you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "release the slides so that I can go through them. I've been forced to come to the microphone to say this under duress. swuffy, and your email address on your first slide is wrong. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah. Yeah. We will notify all that. that It should be updated Let me try to somebody for the mistake. On the slides, they are still wrong, but Sorry for the delay. So let's start putting on my glasses because I don't see anything from here. this is the note well. These questions can sometimes be heated. Please be respectful in all conditions. and try to understand where some misunderstanding could lie. for facilitating the whole this the the discussions. But please be aware that this the policies cover much more than a respectful discussions among us. I'll skip those in the interest of time we've been here a few days already. I guess, you all know how it works. The session is recorded. That's the links to the agenda. and other useful information"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "Let's move on to what is interesting to us. that's the agenda. Donald is supposed to be a few comments. Donald is supposed to be a second slot, but he's also in another sessions So if it doesn't come soon enough, we will move him one slowed down. And Mark Where are you, Mark? Uh-huh. You You had you wanted to have a discussion on discuss criteria. Okay. I I didn't see any problem of anyone raising an position. I'm not very comfortable because people haven't trade maybe haven't trade your your drive. but it's relatively short. But well, well, The actual idea is Yeah. Yeah. Did a take 5 minutes after making this work. for the IAI diactors. Okay? So a lot of seconds, I'm comfortable with my taking Mark's topic because he can probably set the stage and outline what the core is without people needing to read the document. So if if you, you know, set it up correctly, I think we a useful discussion if we have time. Thank you. Yeah. I think we have time. Yeah. So let's go on to the different presentation. Please remember that ultimately, we are expecting to have an answer to the dispatch questions for each and every topic. we have time for discussions, so I'm not gonna going to expect you to directly provide an answer to those questions. But, ultimately, that's that's our goal."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:04",
    "text": "Adrian, you know, they wanna 1st totally accessible in this stage, isn't it? So Rich and I are gonna do a a tag team thing if if you decide you wanna hit 1 of the 2 of us, That one's rich. So The draft is a bit drafty, It tries to present a problem and discuss it a bit and also offers up some solutions but, really, those are almost straw man solutions, and this is agendas batch, I believe. And So discussing the solutions is great and do come and discuss them but this is presumably not the venue, and we don't want to upset Martin. And one other thing to start off with is this is not an attack on the current ISG or previous ISGs, it's an observation of where we are and where we think we want to go. Do I get this I don't know if it works. Try. I don't want you to ask him to move through Okay. Then it's fine. So what is the problem? We believe the ISG document processing workload is high. And that has some consequences. It's becoming more and more difficult to fill the the ISG positions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "because it's known that ADs are stressed by the workload, and that they need to dedicate more time to the role than possibly their funders are willing or that their wives are willing, for any gender non specific definition of wife. And This is limiting as well, not just the the number of people coming forward to BADs, but the diversity of those AD candidates because they have to actually get time availability and backing. Alright. So that's the first thing. Second thing is it we are seeing some damage to the document throughput. and potentially to the document quality So delays to the publication cycle frustration and disillusionment amongst authors, and that ripples down into working groups. And this continuing reputational damage, I I pretty much now wherever you go, you hear the message it takes a long time to get a standard in the IETF. And if half of that time is actually late stage, then we're we're only hurting ourselves. Okay. 3rd part of the problem is that the ISG is not just about processing documents. There's lots of other stuff the ISG has to do. And if the document workload is really high, other things get missed or neglected and maybe the ISB doesn't get enough time to look ahead and plan what the ATF is doing, but also to build the pipeline of the new chairs and the new ADs. So we think we need constructive approaches"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "to reducing the i's ISG workload to make these problems go away. and side. Let's see. one of us. Lovely. So this, of course, is not a new problem. It's been talked about forever, and it's been recognized to some extent forever. And there've been many suggestions made about what to do about it. But on the whole, the ISG has been left to self organize and and move itself forward and and try to prioritize and tackle the problems. But On the whole, the ISG is too busy to stop being too busy. okay, there's too much on its plate for it to step back and say, what what are we going to do to make this go away? and to actually implement those things. And there's similarly a little bit probably of reluctance to delegate and lose control. So Maybe the community and maybe the ISG see the ISG's job as gatekeeping and you can't be a gatekeeper if you let somebody else lock the door, is the way the the thought is going. So What else? The ISG writes the ISG job description and hands over to noncom. And sure, we can all send noncom information about what we think But the core jump description is there. from the ISG. hasn't changed much for a long time. couple of dates here about what was thought about time, and how it moved from a sort of an implication of where you need to be looking towards the 40 hours"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:04",
    "text": "to some people do it in 15, and then many people do it. in more than 15, which kind of also has some implications that many people don't do it in more than 15 hours. In 2018, the update actually said 10 to 15 working groups each, and 500 pages every 2 weeks. And so assuming a 15 hour week. That's 16 pages, an hour or 2 a half minutes her page. which is probably not doing it right. Sorry. So our rationale here that we want the best people on the ISG, the best people possible, anyway. the job must not be daunting or excessively daunting, people need to stay in touch with the real world by while they're being an AD, so that means not just being a full time document reviewer, but actually talking to other people, probably doing some real work. and the employers need to be able and willing to release and fund people. So getting enough hours per week is is a challenge. And the employer probably needs to plan for a 4 year point because, you know, the normal cycle is your 1st year is finding out what the hell the job is, and your 2nd year has been to get into it, So a a a 4 year appointment is is probably quite good for us, and it's typical. We don't want the ISG to be a single point of failure or a bottleneck in in the IETF. And we want the best possible documents in a reasonable time frame So we do want careful review and consideration"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "We do not want to break the Internet. but we want the ISG to be able to enable the work rather than hinder progress to do. Yeah. I'm not Hi. I'm Rick Soles. I'm not tall enough to jump up the front there. I wanted to just emphasize the point Andrew made at the start. Adrian. Sorry. Sorry about that. There's no blame no finger pointing. We really just wanna try to make things better right in this for folks who work at large companies, right, you have the concept of a blameless host modem. So this we really wanna try to emphasize that this is a blameless premort them. Right? The patient is still alive. it might have some issues. Again, nobody's to blame. The ISG as a body, not as individuals, hasn't been able to adopt really good working progress. Working group Sorry. working progress changes. Stephen Farrell tried to do it many, many eighties ago, other people have tried. It just doesn't work. understand that if you're doing a job and a group of outsiders, non ISG members come up and say, well, you're doing it wrong. we really think you should be doing this. it's gonna get your hackles up or your ego involved. hey. I got this big ego as anybody else, so I I completely understand that. what we think should happen, though, is we would like the IETF to help encourage should be must language, Had to have the IESG make some changes to his working practices. We still want them to be able to self organize."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "We think some small steps needed to be to need to be taken to reduce the the working loads. And these are probably incremental things we can do, like, try this change. And then we can see if that works. Or if it doesn't work, we can back that out, and we can try another change. but but but global single change is probably not practical. don't wanna resturize. You know, we don't wanna break the i e f IETF in the IESG by saying, okay. Now it's you know, you're just gonna vote and you'll have, you know, 30 minutes of discussion, and then you decide. that's not practical, and it stands to higher risk of breaking everything. Yeah. Oh, okay. Thank you. So the document does have a number of point solutions, I'd rather not and part of the reason why the draft does this time is because when I came forward last time, some many people said, oh, well, you didn't make any suggestions. So we have a bunch of suggestions that are in the document. we hopefully will not spend a lot of discussion time talking about whether or not, you know, point 4 is bad. Point 2 is good. but they could be taken individually. We actually think it makes sense. Like I just said, to have a program or a plan to roll these things out with consensus, with careful consideration, slowly and incrementally. not from the outside because the ISG is going to be reviewing these document and drafts, and RFCs, and so on. But from bottom up, right, the ATF likes to talk about being a bottom up SDL. Next, please. Okay. So dispatch the dispatch questions. The problem has persisted for a very long time. relative to the IETF. Current changes approaches to make changes Right? don't seem to have affected anything. You look at the eye, like, between in adrian slide, you look at the IESG job description it is pretty much unchanged. Sure. I understand why."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "you're too busy to actually go through and write a new one, so you just cut and paste last year's and maybe you update the hours and maybe you update the number of pages, but but but more or less that's it or maybe an individual AD will change things, but they're pretty static over time. there are probably other solutions that we haven't thought of, Mark Nottingham, had a draft Last time about reducing the AD workload, he's got another one discuss that ties into this kind of thing. So we think As I said, for dispatch, the best approach is to try to set up something that would be you know, we could propose and work on an experiment I guess g runs experiments, so now it should self experiment again, driven by input from the people that they are working for, i. e, the general IETF membership and working groups to have a space to do it. So we're asking probably that there'd be a working group created. and that its charter b to propose experiments for the ISG to reduce its workload and remove some of the roadblocks. getting documents out remove the roadblocks so that an i an AD is not a time position for 2 4, 6, 8, 10 years. And, therefore, that will also increase, you know, diversity and the possibility of new other people. coming into leadership and That's probably a good thing for the IETF. So wanna stand up here too and take the brick nuts? You phone under the table. because it doesn't seem like anyone else wants to say anything. Martin Thompson. if if if 7, Q7, Q7, Oh, look at that. Great. As you said, the ISG self organizers"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "I think there's there's some sort of expectations that sort of shape the way in which they go about conducting their business. But is there something concrete that's written down that needs to change in order to have them change their their practices, or is this something they could do on their own? Well, historically, they've been unable to do anything on their own. the number of hours they estimate for the job varies, but everyone anecdotally says it's basically a full time job, and you have almost everyone. Sorry, Ecker. And you know, the quote, you have to be able to read 500 pages of technical documents every 2 you can translate that into how many things. Now, yeah, you can dispatch you can send things off to your directory. But but but they haven't well, the point I'm asking about what is concretely written down. Yeah. in policy documents that that establish the charter for the ISG that we would be able to change in such a way as would enable them to to go about doing their business differently. or whether this is just because there are there are established expectations and inertia that that cause it to be the way it is. So inertia is a good word there. So There were two sides to your question. Is this stuff written down that prevents change? Yes. And is there not stuff written down that requires change. Because it's it's totally true that the ISG could self organize, get itself out the whole, be done. However, We are where we are, and we've been here for quite a while. Okay. could answer. Okay. much better. Good. No. You have to answer all the questions. So so we're Wilson Cisco. as an an AD. I don't know whether I should be commenting on this because, obviously, it's with the community. but we'll comment anyway. So I think it's great that you you're bringing this flagging this up because I think that's important to community to flag this up. I think that's that's good."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "I think the thing I'd say is we had an ISG retreat, and we do discuss these issues. And I had different proposal of maybe reducing the ballot requirements and things like that. So we had a discussion about that I think the workload was involved in that. And the conclusion in the ISGs that they were happy with workload and what they're doing now, so that didn't change. But I also think it's important that the ISG can self organized. I mean, that's really important and have flexibility. And I hate it where anything where we have extra rules get written into process documents that makes everyone's lives harder. what might be interesting, though, from a community community perspective is to say this is what we think your priority should be. This is the most important thing for us is to do this and then this and this and this and actually sort of organize what things you you think the highest priorities are, and then leave it to the ISG to then decide how to meet those requirements. So so does priority kind of also include a must and should and may grading with those priorities Or is it simply that they're all in order, you pick them off in order, but you still at the end of the day have spent 72 hours in a week working. I think it could be anything. I don't I think it's just saying, we would like you to be focusing on this. In terms of, like, reducing the workload, I I don't know how that's I think we all have to try and minimize that'll work we spend, but it is tricky. to do that. But I think it's more guidance in terms of actually, these things don't matter to us to us so we could spend less time reviewing documents. sort and get different effort quality. This is Pete Resnick. first of all, strictly to the dispatch question. think a working group for this makes tremendous amount of sense, and that's the way that should be handled. because I suspect that you're right that this will start with some experiments that we ask the IASG to try."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "I I think it should be more than an ask, but that's okay. I'm willing to have it be an ask. I was on the IASG When you're on the IASG, you cannot make these changes. because you you can't let go of the current airplane long enough to change the engine. and I think the community has to tell the IASG which parts of the engine they're going to remove, drop, and hope the plane doesn't fall out of sky because, otherwise, they're not gonna be willing to do it. And I think Rob's point that you should make this a principal kind of discussion I think that might be the endpoint document that comes out as a BCP. But I think during this process, some experiments are gonna have to come out, which say you have to do it this way. and try it I heard some hallway discussion which involved Well, I looked over this document, and some of the things you suggest will cause terrible damage. I think the community needs to get together and say, yes, they will. tough. The the Internet no longer lives and dies on any given document this organization produces, can even have a bunch of flops, and we can correct them and fix them if we need to. But right now, what the ISG is doing and has done for If not decades, certainly, many, many years is unsustainable. It's not doing the management work that is most important. And so I think we should charter do some experimental things that we insist that the IASG take on. and simultaneously work on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "a more principal document that explains what the ISG should do The ISG does not have of DCP Charter, It has seemingly resolutely for certainly decades refused create one on the fear that they would box themselves into a corner. And I think part of this may be more completely describing their job. One last point One of the things that we introduced into the job description of the SSG for the nomcom to take into account was something that I pushed for which was ADs must be able to declare themselves in the rough occasionally, You. the the ISG should be listening to this and say, I think this is gonna stink. and the community still says that this is the way it's gonna go. And when one of these documents comes out, I'm bloody well gonna ballot. No objection. because that is the consensus of the community. I know there are a list of people who live through new track and had an ISG that did not do that, I think those decision should have been appealed and not just dropped, and everybody would go away grumpy. But I promise that I will write the first appeal if this working group produces something and the ISG says, well, we think it's a bad idea. Therefore, no. not your choice. So I I like your airplane thing. I I do want to say that the The ISG is part of the community. And if they were a working group, the ISG would be very welcome to come along and jointly technical discussion pointing out what the consequences of dropping the engine would be and where the plane is gonna crash and how many children will die. and then the community is informed and can make decisions. time. Mark Nottingham. Just as I'm at a point, I know we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "very long queue, so I would encourage the chairs to actively manage the discussion. I am sympathetic to what you're trying to say in this draft. I'm also sympathetic that to those in leadership positions, they don't want community in all of their business and specifying everything to a fine tea that could be a nightmare for everyone involved. for stuff that only affects the that we probably need to leave that up to the ISG. But for things that affect the community, I think we do need a larger discussion. And so, for example, when the ISG ballots itself and they say, oh, well, we're fine with our workload. It's cool. That doesn't take into account that that decision affects the community's ability to select people into it. and that's a huge effect, and we need to say in that. So I I agree with Pete. I think a working group here is is a good idea. I that's the answer that it is past question. I think that that working group needs to be very carefully scoped so that's primarily about the interface between the community and the ISG, and that Any interventions are with that in mind that it's about what expectations a community can have and what authority the community as a whole needs to exercise and what doesn't. And I think that addresses, for example, the stuff that Pete was talking about there at the end and what I'm bring up. next. Very quickly. Mark is right in the sense that the quick queue is long. So if you can express I have questions, but express your position concerning the dispatch questions that it would be correct. Will do. David Skinazi, process enthusiast. And, actually, to be abundantly clear, I'm I'm speaking As a enthusiastic member of our community, not as a representative of group border company. Just me. So I think your characterization of situation might have been slightly uncharitable to the ISG, but it's also not completely wrong."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "I think, as a document author, I've shared some of these frustrations and I think the situation could definitely be improved. And I and supportive of work to improve it. Then on the topic of, you know, the ISG should self organize. I've brought suggestions to the ISG before, and a common response I had was while self organize, you should join the ISG and come help fix it from the inside. thought, oh, well, that's interesting. So and I even, at some point, accept nomination and have interviews with the NOMCOP for joining the ASG. but I could I I I was very clear to an Omcom that I could only one day a week because I have a day job. and the feedback I received was that that was disqualifying. So Well, if you can fully fix it from the inside and you can't get on the inside, then there's an issue. So because of all this, I'm fully supportive of a working group here. I think that would be the right path to help change. I agree with Mark's points about We don't wanted to. like like like look into everything about the ASG. Like, I think having a very narrowly scope working would help. And, for example, I would propose scoping it to the document review and, like, ballots as a very clear deliverable because I think that is the main source of the time commitment. and also the main source of the author frustration. So I would focus on that. total 2nd. So I think one one thing that might be used for the dispatch process in the way of getting towards chartering if we want to have some group like this, I can see it to be useful. be figuring out all the criteria. might for these experiments. Right? So I'm, for example, a fan of measurement Right? So, I mean, you wanna before the experiment start, have some, you know, measurement that says, this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "how much this particular problem sucks now. that could be, you know, asking the community that could be looking at actual numbers of statistics that we have, and you're defining or so what are the exit criteria for as far success in failure. of the experiment. Right? Because otherwise, we're going to have, you know, the equivalent of what we do here in California. We do propositions, and we say, yeah. That's great. That's great, and then we have 120 percent of money over committed. nobody knows kind of how to do these things. Right? So The second thing is I'm not quite sure about the boundaries of what is ISG. Right? So, for example, I'm a big fan of of trying to figure out how to make the records more useful in terms of taking on more responsibility of reviews instead of the I AD. But I do think there needs to be more brownie points for that to have a lot of people, you know, that port and get somewhere financed to actually invest more into direct rate reviews. So my proposals would be, let's formalize contributory statements, and gamify that data tracker like we do authorship and everything. Right? But with those type of aspects You know? I think they relate to ISG, but where do we put the boundary? Right? So I think that's that's hopefully useful question to tackle in the dispatch process. I stood in front. So I think the only the only possible dispatch outcomes are do nothing or a working I think there's nothing in between. I I think the draft and the discussion a reasonable job of outlining a problem. I haven't heard anything that sounds to me like a a solution that'd be anywhere effective And I think that would be a huge problem. If you start a working group, you get every possible one of the random ideas that people have had over the last many years. and then have to spend, like, you know, the whole new track length of time to get somewhere and then end up getting nowhere. So I'd be very concerned to working group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "might not actually produce any reasonable improvements. So what I just to finish, what I suggest is maybe you know, try and first get some credible proposals before trying to charter a working group. And I'm not sure how you do that, but I think you know, chartering a working group that just fix the ISG or fix the validating process, I think, is liable to fail. our goal would not be to come up with one document at the end of long process that said do these things, but actually to do small incremental steps. So if you had 7 RFCs, that directed, you know, consensus. This is what you try this. Oh, then we can provide just like we did with the nomcom eligibility requirements. Sure. I I understood that, and I think that doesn't sound to me like a credible way of improving the situation. Kevin Jennings. I I wanna just comment on some of the data and arguments that was brought up here to start like, the five hundred pages a week or something or every 2 weeks. I mean, my look at it is IETF publishes a little over a hundred pages a week. it's very unlikely people are reading 500 pages every 2 weeks. I think that data is just wrong. I think that the assertion that, like, we spend more times in the approval process than we do in building the document and that this is a substantial fraction of our time for the delay of how long it takes to get an ITS back as we're on. I I think, like, a lot of the things that were brought here had a very witch hunty feel to them. And that makes me, you know, sort of trying to think about what is the root cause problem as being this? Are we trying to solve the problem if we don't have enough candidates for some of the AD roles. because there are other explanations for that too, in some areas at some points in time, there have been several qualified candidates who said no, because of our open process, made them not in a position of wanting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "compete against somebody who was clearly going to win, and they were not going to get So they just they they decline nominations. So And, obviously, there's situations where it's not that. I I I almost started with opening. I'm I'm, you know, an enthusiastic for the David Schnazzi as an AD group. But I'm I mean, clearly, we should be this with less hours. I was an AD. I certainly didn't put anywhere close to 40 hours in. I don't think the ADs are putting in more now, particularly it varies highly by AD. but I I think we could get some real data about that. And I don't I certainly don't think they should be reviewing every document. You know, there's some of those things. really where I was going on all of this is I'm not this was way too much at just blank check open charter to go do something. And I hate these things where there's a problem And we have one thing that came up, which probably won't solve the problem, but we need to do something so we do and those never work out well. So I'd really wanna see something that was scoped to a very concrete set of proposals of of of what the problem was that we had data to pro impact that that that was the problem and that we were going we were going to address solutions to that problem before we chartered something. Does that cut into what Trola said, basically? Thanks. get a better understanding of of the of the the numbers Oh, I mean, look. I think there's compelling evidence that people have been concerned about this issue for at least 20 years probably longer. Right? So fine. But what problem is everybody sees a different problem and different things. So I think trying to get some data and understand really what is the key problem, what's happening. Is it about quality? Is it volume? Is it about burnout? Is it about diversity? Like, there's a lot of different things you're trying to optimize here and try and get some data and figure out which one is the problem. I'm sure there's no single problem. I mean, that's that's awesome. But you don't need a working group. to do that. Hi. Marie, I'm also at AD right now."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "first a personal request, can we stop with the aviation analogies? they're they're scaring me. As to as to the dispatch question, I a working group seems like the safe the most straightforward thing to do here. It's a right. So let me I'll leave that. I've been in the middle of a inadvertent experiment of running the whole area myself for for a while now. And I think that I think I may have learned some stuff about what we can get away with not doing or slowing down on doing less. So I have some input to this process. I'll absolutely participate in the working group. The the last thing I wanted to say is all the solutions I've heard in this space over the years, and I've been on the noncomm twice and, you know, They have to do with how can we do less document you know, it's all focused around document management. The thing that draws an inordinate amount of my time, or on the time I've been on the ISG that I didn't expect, is just how much refereeing we have to do of, like, the IETF ad list has gone sideways. please step in and do something. And that's never a, okay, we dealt with it 20 minutes sort of problem, it drags out. And so have put forward the idea before, and conversations that maybe we can do something about can we offload those functions to someone else? Because not always what I think of as what we're pardon the term higher or appointed to do. But there's always resistance to that. Like, no. We need to keep under control. So we are kind of the collection point for everything that doesn't have another iStar thing assigned to And I think that that's an angle I would like us to look at other than how do we get you to do list document work? because the document work is frankly a guy to choose between those two things? I know where I'm at where my time would go. Starting after, Alisa, could you please be very short. We already Right. I get to be as long as I want. Alyssa Cooper. So I'm gonna come back to the point about the data and focus first on the job to which has been referenced many times and the the number of hours that is put into the job description. So the job descriptions are also, like, negotiated documents."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "and they reflect the biases of of the ISG at the time who wrote them. And And therefore, it's not like what appears in those should be taken as gospel. So the fact that there's a job description that once said, you know, the time commitment is between 15:40 hours. like, I was involved in my discussions where I was like, That's not really true. Is it? Shouldn't we make it smaller? Like, why why why are we saying that? And you have other people who are like, Well, their employment depends on this being a full time job. And so there's no way in hell they're gonna let us put subscription out that has less than 40 hours in it. And so, like, there can be tension and disagreement even about what the job description says or about how you describe what the job is because people writing the job description have a vested interest in their own future potentially fitting into the mold of whatever the And what that means for the data collection problem sorry. A new question. Yeah. Does their employment depend on it being a full time job, or does it being an AD? and being employed, dependent on full time job. That's but that's what it is. It's like my job is to be in the AD and I I will get paid for full time work if it's a full time job. So Yeah. But okay. So the my larger point is that you can collect a lot you know, you can collect statistics about time and and, you know, how long how long people spend on different things and how long the process takes and so on. but we also need like, higher quality, anonymized qualitative data about people's experiences where they both within the ISG and if you want to solve the broader problem space, within managers and employers and people who are authorizing their employees to stand for these roles and the community at large. where there's You can reduce people's fear about what they can divulge about their own biases related to their experience with the ISG or on the ISG or with the noncom process."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "Because otherwise, like, every time we have this conversation, it's all just, like, anecdote to anecdote to anecdote and you you can't extract away the fact that somebody's telling you a particular story because they have their own interest in looking a certain way as an outcome. So I think I totally agree that, like, before you I mean, how would you even write charter for a working group for this because nobody understands which problems they're trying to be solved. But I think as part of the data collection process, like, a much broader survey that protects the privacy of the individuals whose information is being sought is needed. Hi, Lisa. We're with you. sorry. What would be your answer to the dispatch question? I need In theory, you can say dispatch to working group, but I think process of developing a charter for that working group. is itself, like, a giant task that needs this data before you can just decide what problem you're solving to put into a charter. Okay. Thank you. you have one we have five persons on the queue. You have one minute each So Robert Sparks, 80 several times, ISG Sorry. I've been exposed to the problems that ISGs have have had had making changes is the way they behave, quite a bit. I think The dispatch question here is the the the proposal that's been brought in for a dispatch to a working group is perhaps misguided, and would suggest that this dispatch to a buff and that the boss purpose is to build a charter. and that that Charter list that that that effort listens very closely to what Alissa in particular was just saying, that that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "the goal should be to identify where the problems can actually be affected And what the inputs to the current ADs are causing change to not happen. I'm really trying to compress. I had many more things to say than are gonna fit in a minute, so I'm compressing. The ISG is not going to be able to not expand its review Roland particular to fill all time. as long as we as a community, accept and put up with things like the discussion we've had about OAuth on the IETF list. as a credible thing that we allow it to happen because they're gonna be under that attack next. Thank you I think it was Zurich first, but it's okay. Tim Wieczynski, simple and humble working group chair. One thing that I made a comment. I sent you a comment, Rich, about the draft is One of the big goals we feel is chairs Not not only goal, is to make the eighties life easier And so one of the big things we've been pushing is many more early reviews on drafts that are getting ready to go to work in group last call. Usually about a month out, we schedule a bunch of them because we want, you know, that helps the chairs. It helps the a d make that job of the whole document stuff a much much, much simpler. And so you should I sent you some stuff like that should be a must, almost, in your document. sort of thing. Okay. start your Vump. Era persona. So I think this is, like, far too broad a scope could be useful. Make things more efficient is, like, a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "finishly on deep rabbit hole, which I would not attempt to go down. With that, I do have a suggestion. I think there's a much smaller problem which is that the the review load itself is too That's result of community expectations about what the reviews ought to get assist of and what they ought to be reviewed for. And this nicely ties into presentation regarding a few minutes from Mark about what the communities of petitions criteria are. So what I suggest is to table this to have it spin up a much smaller community effort to manage the community's expectations about discuss about what what review it is what to review for I think that that will naturally scope down, cause the amount of review logically down. Certainly, I spent much of my review time, I think, doing things that probably are not very productive. And if I felt the community expectations were different, I'm gonna have done things differently. And I think that the rest of this should be, like, largely tabled until someone comes back with more data colonols indicated. So I just wanna point out that a another AD Murray disagrees with you. Are you heard back and forth, or -- No. No. No. No. Thank you. One minute. Hi. So I think my biggest concern, I would dispatch to a BOTH, my biggest concern with this process is the same process that we've had before, which is that Well, we had a long list of almost everyone in the line was former a d, 1 or 2 exceptions. And Well, Murray was a current AD, but most of the other ADs are busy with their were groups at this session. And so if we had a BAW or a working group, we would, by definition, probably lose 80% of all the eighties that are active, and then we would wind up with a document or charter that they would wonder how we got there. So when we dispatch to the above, which I think we're going to do, We need to think very, very, very carefully about the scheduling of that meeting because Well, I learned this ages ago. Those those mission statements that organization produce, you know, with all very finely crafted words that take a whole weekend."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "Every single one of those words represents a 2 hour converse and if you weren't in the 2 hour conversation, the mission statement looks like. bullshit. Okay? But if you were in that conversation then it actually reflects, oh, that 2 hour conversation, and you go oh, that's right. It's reminding me about what we actually discussed. And I think that's why we continuously fail is because we actually have to do this as a group. And as I think Ben said in the in the chat, you know, those retreats really need to be well organized and maybe involving more than just the iSTAR for this problem. And I really like Martin's comment about as a self selection into a some kind of a hell. And the only people that are there, the people that were willing to step into that hell, And so, Maybe that's the wrong group to decide what's going on. Thanks. Yeah. Yeah. Please Venture? Yes. Plus one on community having a voice on this topic, plus one on Colin's analysis points on what the or figure out what the flow data is. Plus one on Pete's point on commute present priorities and principles. But please don't design a very detailed process. This is not about that. This is about sort of a human psyche. If you working and you, you know, you could move boxes or solve difficult business questions likely to move boxes because it's easier. And the IST has, you know, listed documents in front of them. It's very concrete. it's very easy to focus on. But having the only focus on that is probably wrong. maybe coach your working group chairs or or do something else is that Thank you. Hi. Camping, I've never been a an AD and Andrew never will be. answering the question first. I mean, this all seems to be about how to remove all the admin overhead in order do the in do the important stuff which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "perfectly laudable. think dispatch it to a a working group I to gather data and better define the problem So a very limited charter, and there may be a recharter so they work on the the results of that will be my suggestion. And if I was being provocative, say, if for good measure, if this is all about making stuff more effective, could you add the scope a bit the the the inter into that administration board and how turn that into the Internet architecture board by removing the admin overhead from that as well. Thank you. Thank you very much. So I'll try to give you a quick mark. I'm sorry. I'm gonna keep your 5 minutes. Yeah. I accept that. I get the feeling from people having come to the mic that there is interest in pursuing the effort possibly under the form of a working group or maybe as a first step as a form of above that nevertheless, the problem seems a bit seems quite broad and that for this to be a potential success, it would need to be scoped And with very of a few concrete action points or points we we we the community would like to concentrated efforts those efforts being those points being those that are relevant relevant to the community And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "I also took note to have more precise data helping us to identify the different points we potentially will work on. I will summarize that on the list and see if employee would decrease or not. Doesn't mean that we can't discuss your topic on on the list. Yes. Sorry? If we keep our agenda scheduled time for the next two topics. 5 minutes later. Yeah. But okay. If we don't, then side side Donald You're done. Thank you, guys. that's going Public sheet. Sim. Hi. I'm Donald East Lake with Future A Technologies. I'm gonna talk about RCE3797 disk draft. Next slide. So the nomcom voting members selected randomly from the qualified volunteers. It's always said that for the 30 years, that the noncomm system has been working more or less successfully. And for the last 25 years, that has been done through an algorithm which has been documented in RFC. and then originally 2, triple 7, and now currently 37 97. So the idea is you get a list of volunteers who are qualified I like currently, the qualifications are specified in RFC in 9389, which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "don't actually agree with those. qualifications, but that's not what we're talking about today. And the administrator and the chair that I'm But then I'll come to select, say, some future sources of randomness like lottery winnings and references an algorithm or creates an algorithm, and that's how they're selected. Next slide. So that's also simple. What why is there abyss? Well, When this Brammeris is announced, it basically using the algorithm induces a total ordering. of the volunteers. Normally, the first ten would just be the voters, but there is this rule we have. You can't have more than 2 voters with the same sponsor. So that causes some subsequent people to be selected because someone in the first top 10 be eliminated, And it's also the case that the administrator really has to contact the the selected voters and see if they can contact them. which is sometimes fails. and a seat. can contact and see if they're willing to agree to serve. I believe. And the current thing, if you if you check, you wanted to serve because you did that when you register for an IETF meeting. It could have been years ago that you checked that. And, you know, when it really comes to it or you're really willing to put in the effort you really wanna serve, People say no sometimes. So The administrator can do the first of these two things, but the type 2 eliminations take some effort. And the people will know what this ordering is under the current 3797, So if somebody declines to serve, they can kinda see what the likely effect is on the voters. Next slide. This is to make it really concrete. I wrote down 22 and randomly. It's that's much more than the current volunteer pools are. names in alphabetic order. Number of them, those are the numbers in parentheses."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "and I used a algorithm similar to 3797 to animally reorder them. So if this was the real thing that the first 10, the ones that are underlined, would be the voters. ignoring the possible complications due to people with the same mobile people with the same sponsor. And let's say that any one of those ten people really knew he was a good friend of Charles, the person who had been chosen at 11th by clining to serve on the nomcom, they can effectively transfer their vote to Charles. or you can imagine more evil scenarios where one of these first ten is employed by a company of whom Charles is a very important customer or an employee of a very important customer or something like that. So bad things happen. So this is but maybe we think this is a a central problem and a bad thing. So something needs to be done about this to avoid the ability of early selectees to effectively transfer their vote next slide. So So if This sort of thing happens. The idea is to get some new randomness to re randomize the pool members. So if you declined to serve, you have no idea who will end up getting your vote. This is not a completely abstract concern. selection for the 2022 to 2023.com required 3 extensions. to get all the voters. When I was chair of the nomcom, I had somebody that I could not contact. These these things happen. But this whole thing at this point is kind of time constrained. I mean, the the outcome really has to kinda complete, at least, get get its people that it wants to nominate to their confirmation bodies. So going through the whole big process that's usually done for the initial section and using"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:04",
    "text": "like, state, government run libraries and stuff is likely to take kind of too long. Some people recommended using some online sources, like, you know, there's a random.com that pumps of random numbers all the time. or at least they say they're random. But I don't have any confidence in that. I'm not sure the public would. Governments have paid to corrupt algorithms being standardized for security purposes. I don't know why they wouldn't try to corrupt source of randomness. It's absolutely trivial to to produced Ram looking stuff that really isn't. So solution to this is to use a hash chain. which I'll explain on next slide. So you have immediately available rampus, and you can do this set of cycle every few days. if necessary. Next slide. So the fast chain idea is that when the administrator is selecting these future public sources of randomness, administrator also selects a secret random number r. And they never have to reveal our, actually, or how they chose it. And it doesn't really need to be all that random, but It should be because we ran them, and we really do trust the administrator. Does that make sense? And that administrator also picks a hash function. and then they repeatedly apply that hash function. end times. So they eventually produce what is result of the hash of the hash of the hash of the hash of r, and at nested n times. when they announced the And Public sources of randomness and the algorithm they're gonna use, they also announce what the hash function is. and this last number, the end of that chain, So they can also use that as part of the input to the selection algorithm. as long as there's enough other public randomness that can be verified as by the public So when the extension is needed. What they do is they go to the previous number in this hash chain. These for one extension, they would use"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "the n-1st. item in the chain, and use that for the for banishinaldramas. And in general, if they're good k, extensions. They use the k minus first item in the chain. So this is only a question. I'll just finish this slide. I'm happy to take a question then. So by announcing the hash function in this last item in the chain, the administrator binds themselves to all the previous values. because They Yeah. you can't you can't although public can't derive a previous value in the chain that when the administrator is the previous value anybody can publicly and trivially confirm. that is the previous value by using the hash function h. calling American. because yeah. You Sorry? Eric Riskellar has a question, apparently. Okay. Carry on. Carry on. Okay. So other changes. There are other changes. The existing 37 7 uses MD5. The 37.97 biz uses hmacshot256. probably the original should have used hmacmd5. Anyway, I don't think really needs to be as strong as that, but there's no particular reason not to. It also the the code in it will have a way to to have a software generating a hash chain. using Shah 256. and ways to just This algorithm thing in in the piece of rings has been used for other purposes. The the prefix for internationalized domain names was chosen this way by Iana using 37. I didn't I think it's 2, 777, the first RFC. to avoid claims jumping. And in oh, another org standards organization, somebody who has had a problem that there were lots of people wanting to present."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:03",
    "text": "and have votes on their proposals in a and where they people believe the outcome might depend on the order, so everybody wanted to be presented first. they chose the order of the agenda items for some sessions using this algorithm. to fairly give everybody a chance to equal chance to be the first or last presenter. next slide. So I just wanted to work for a second. There has been was it an alternative proposal, which was discussed on the allergy mailing list, I guess. And there's we've also discussed previously on something similar was discussed previously on one of the earlier noncomm lists, I believe. which I call the hash method. So the method I is currently used that I refer to as the probe method. So while I like that, I wouldn't mind adding the hash method as an alternative. Next slide, explains in more details what they are. So the current method My current method successively selects entries from the pool. And after selecting 1, it marks it as use, and then it it selects from the remainder. So it generates a series of random numbers of each one. It divides by the number of available members in the pool, uses the remainder to select 1. So if you add or delete somebody from the pool making the list longer or shorter, it sort of it really scrambles who's got selected. But The whole idea of the Namcon process is to have firm deadlines and you fees the list at some point. So, I mean, the The NonCom's system really has to work with firm deadlines in order to get its work done by the deadline. And while they're maybe you can come up with occasions where it seems just to some extent, work a hardship for some particular individual. Individual selected or all still qualified volunteers. From the point of view, the the the noncomm floating members, it's really not Not a problem that it has to have these firm deadlines."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "So the hash method works by instead of pending randomness to each name of the list. hashing all these entries with the appended canvas and then sorting. So it's less sensitive to adding or deleting people. but it's incredibly sensitive to the exact bit by bit representation of each of the names. And whether or not you chronicleize those names, whether they're no uppercase, accents, a white space, all that sort of stuff. So when you extend the selection for the hash method, you have to remove the selected people and basically use some new randomness do the same thing again anyway. Next slide. turn on. Just just You're burning your time. You should expect people to have read your document and not Okay. Perfect. Probably too much detail. I think I only have one more slide, though. Oh, 2 more slides. Okay. So this is basically my comparison of the 2. I think you already talked about it. And the probe method has been used so far and hash method hasn't previously been used. So I like the roadmap of myself, but I'm willing to add as an alternative. Next slide. So it says that here, and then there's the dispatch question. I hope a lot of people seem to think that you just go to allergy and rechartered. don't know if Gen dispatch actually does documents. The the changes to what kinda crypto ish related. So could conceivably be a security the sub security working group, but I don't think the security area really wants it. could be a d sponsored. I don't know. Anyway, what what do people think? I'm allowing Eric and Martin. I'll be short. So I agree with the problem statement. again, these are problem. I consider it every single piece of your solution. that's fine. We should have a working group to study it. care focused technology or some new thing. it should definitely not be 80 sponsored or sponsored other here."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "Martin Thompson, I someone observed to me that we spend a lot on solving the problems we know how to fix rather than ones that should be fixed. I agree with that. I will give the opportunity to for people to express their views on the list. also. Mhmm. I don't think anybody has anything else to say. Yeah. Well, Yeah. maybe the the rechartered allergy is kind of the But that that's Lead resistance. let's be on the scope of -- Okay. -- this working group. Yeah. Okay. Then Okay. Okay. Hi, everyone. Charles Eckl. I'll see if I can save us a little bit of time. But, anyways, this is a something that's important to me. I hope it's important to you too. I'm actually wearing my my hackathon t shirt. I always wear them though. But, you know, so you know what? I you know, part of that or a big part of that is actually generating more code and and making more code available that's related to the work we do in the IETF in doing that, it I kinda became aware of And a problem that doesn't exist because of the hackathon, but the The hackathon makes it maybe even more important that we find a solution to it, I think."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "Next slide, please. So a lot of code out there that's related to There's Internet drafts and actually to existing RFCs. And, you know, it exists in a lot of different forms. And as I just said, we we we keep adding to that, feedback on So the the problem is that if you're not one of the people who's writing that code or working within the working group actively on it, It's it's very far hard to find that code. I certainly see that with the hackathons that we we have a bunch of information the Wiki and the people working on the project are aware of it. But, you know, even people in the working group who aren't in the hackathon, they they probably don't know about that unless it gets presented. So the the whole goal here is just just to make that code easier to find. Next slide, please. So the there already are some mechanisms that that are useful for this. a list amount here, the implementation status that's existed for a long time. People can put information there as as pointing to their code and implementations. that's one p one type of code that's that's useful. However, you know, a lot of people don't use that and it's it generally ends up going away. by the time that an RFC gets produced. Now the the Git Group define some processes around How WE CAN use Git GitHub and for managing documents, and a lot of that could still be used for for helping code too. So so that that's a useful thing that we have. And then I mentioned the the hackathon, and we do a good job with the Wikis of putting down for your for most of the projects, the drafts and corresponding code. So so that's useful. the problem with that is that and a lot of people don't don't don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "participate in the hackathon. They don't know about the Wiki and it doesn't get managed or updated over time, so it's really can be quite stale information. Next slide, please. So so then the idea or at least my proposal here is to set up some some practices that we as a community follow, to try to improve this situation. And so I've I've taken a stab at that, and we've actually, you know, been using it a little bit to see how it works, The idea is to set up a repo and and GitHub for the draft much like is, you know, using those procedures that were outlined by the the get working group. have a read me. You can you can point to the code associated with the draft. Now in the data tracker, we have a useful feature called additional resources And people have been using that to point to the the GitHub repo where they're draft stored and where people can actually work on the draft together, And then there was an additional tag added there called related implementations. And so you can use that to point to your related implementation, whether it be a an implementation of of the code or perhaps some tools related to the draft. And then we do have the implementation status, so it's good to still use that nothing wrong with that. It's a good additional piece of information. But I I would say what it should do is point to that github repo or to the to read me rather than duplicating a bunch of information that that's in the, you know, place. That way we don't end up maintaining information in multiple places. And then the in line, Arada, this is for once a draft becomes an RFC, and you still wanna be able to provide a linkage perhaps to this read me or wherever the code the references to the code are."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "That way, you can still update it even after it's an RFC. So that's the proposal that's outlined in the draft next slide, please. I'll I'll go through this pretty quickly. This just kinda shows the mechanic of how you can add this information when when you're when it's an individual draft, your you as the author can go and add this information once it becomes a working group draft. then you have to work with your working group chairs to get that information added. Next slide, please. We can just skip through is just going through the details, the mechanics of it. If you wanted to go and actually add this yourself, So you can go to the next slide. maybe a more realistic example I just show you from of the hackathons where we did have a project that pointed to the Internet drafts they were working on. And then if you go to the next slide, which shows a snapshot in the data tracker of this. you can see, you know, it had some implement it had some information about related implementations, it's pointing to this GitHub repo, which was the project that was used in the hackathon. So now even well after the hackathon was over, You still have this. It's available quite easily through the data tracker. you can get access to the code. and that's been, you know, very handy. Next slide, please. And Now this is something that was brought up as a potential concern with this. as well. And what if it what if it gets abused or you mentioned, okay. Now the working group chairs have to kinda make this call as to whether something's appropriate to add in this field. and and and to me, I think it's just like with the rest of the document. Once it's under working group, once it's adopted by the working group, then know, the the working group has a say as to whether this makes sense to have this piece of information."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:02",
    "text": "So just took a stab at this as as to what would be the criteria you could use. as long as it's potentially of interest to to the community of people not only writing the draft, but implementing the draft maintaining versions of or deployments where the draft is used or RC is used. tools that maybe help you sniff the packets on the wire that, you know, where where this perhaps protocol is being used, things like that. To me, those could all be good. Now, obviously, the code needs to be publicly available somewhere. Otherwise, it's not too useful to to point to it. clearly documented, and I put this so that you can say whether this is a hackathon project. We just wrote it up very quickly. or this is, you know, actually a supported implementation that you might actually you know, wanna use. and and count on to actually have it, you know, work. And then preferably open source because, you know, some people ask, like, hey. Sometimes in the phones we work on stuff that's that's proprietary. And, you know, that's arguably useful too. As long as it's publicly available, I think the community can kinda decide, okay, this is a a reasonable thing to put. Next slide. No? Okay. So, you know, we've been using this existed for well, I guess, we we first started using it atietf114. And so I I've had Robert and other in people in the tools team help me with determining our people actually using this. They are, and and they're using it more each time. So that's good. You can see, you know, going from 14 up to 61 occurrences of it across drafts and and working groups. So I'd say it's it's it's kinda catching on. The the feedback I've received about it has all been positive, It's still not huge numbers, though. and it's not like, you know, the hockey stick, you know,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "It's not ramping up really quick. But I I you know, so I wanna see what we can do to hopefully get this a little bit more prevalent. Next slide. A few limitations that I mentioned the the big one being, I think a lot of it's around awareness. But then also, I think for some people just even needing to have that conversation of of going once further talking to their working group chair, seems like sometimes they they just don't take that step because they they can't just do it themselves. I don't know we could consider if that's really a problem or or, again, it's just a matter of of the mechanism not being real we're well understood some limitations with what I mentioned about errata that lot of people don't even know about doing that and and don't know how to look for it or sometimes a router doesn't get treated in a timely matter, but To me, that's kind of a separate problem we we can figure out. Anyways, these these limitations are listed in the draft. Next slide. so what to do next? And as you could see by the the title of the slide initially, this has been talked about within EDM. And I've presented at IAB Open, and you know, mostly receive some some good feedback and suggestions on on other things to add Then we started talking about what to do next with this and we kind of agreed there that it wasn't really appropriate, has an IAB document, What we really felt it was outlining was some best practices. So the status of it right now is is proposed to be a BCP Then we thought, well, maybe just get a AD sponsored and And but then the more we thought about it, it's like, well, we have a place to talk about this. Gen Dispatch. So, one upping it here. So that's why I'm here. I'd love to hear what you think about the idea and and thoughts about what to do next with the draft. Thanks."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:04",
    "text": "Thank you, Charles. Martin Thompson. Having looked at the presentation here, It all looks like mission accomplished to me. is there anything that would require we have consensus to to go about the things that have already been done? Is there anything that would public the publication of an RFC would would help with? Is there anything that a working group could do that would further the goals that you have here anymore and and I'm concretely not sure that there's anything more to do here. you know, that fair enough. I think having it as an RFC, at least in my mind, published RFC makes it more likely that outside of this immediate community will find it. people the one part is getting people to to use it to actually add this information in. to their their drafts. Another thing is to get people who look at RFCs to be aware that this linkages there and that they can use it. So I I think it would deaf I think it would help with the latter and and maybe maybe with the former too. Yeah. I'm I'm fairly confident, that the work that's been done to advertise the the availability of the tools is is sufficient in this case, and the publication is not going to reach brought a community of interest because of the community of interest, has already been reached if the community of inter if the community you're trying to reach is outside of the IT, perhaps, but that's not really, really That's not actually doesn't make any sense to me. So I I think concrete me. would suggest that we're done here. and thank you for your continued work on this one. I think it will require continued communication"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:03",
    "text": "and evangelism to to ensure that people are aware of it, but that's just how it is. k. Thanks. And then the the only other thing I would ask for, if if that was the route we did we go just that, you know, people who maybe aren't familiar with it, take a look at it, and and give me feedback on it. if there's there's something that should be added there that isn't there already. Yep. Hans or a couple. I'm I'm not woah. I might have dropped it. Sorry for that. Okay. It's always a little high. I'm not sure I have the whole big picture here of what is being done in the past already. So excuse me if I might miss out something. I agree that probably some things discussed here are already possible right now in a certain way, and I also appreciate works at been done in the past to achieve policy syncs. do however think that's well, my personal impression is that's the overall idea of you know, getting implementation work and IRCs published more close together also in an outreach fashion of what implementations exist outside and how can open source developers be better supported to engage with the IETF to understand what RFCs are implemented what about test data, for instance, which is available, which is probably also not always there in a very structured manner in each and every draft, I think there is certainly some work can be done. There was also a site meeting today organized by Alastair Woodman about bring together open source developers at the IETF. So I think, overall, there is potential probably beyond what you have presented here that might make sense to probably go ahead with this site meeting and think about what kind of things might be more interesting to discuss about and probably formalize not to formalize, but I think there is things that certainly can be improved here in a certain way. Yep. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Thanks. Thanks."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "Yeah. Could have been so I think the the value of this work is to have a unified way to find this. Because currently, we have codes somewhere, and, like, every draft author, every working group has their own process, how to find it, And if I'm an outside person, I don't know where to look So I think that's the value of of this RC, and that's that's the value of would be the value of going through the process to maybe publish it as an RFC so that we can all agree to something and we are all aware But I agree to Martin that it's more important to actually apply it. And, like, I think we need to apply a little bit more also to understand if this is a unified way you wanna go for. for example, what I've seen lately very often is that is not only for code, but at least for me, the easiest way to find a GitHub often in an individual draft is that people put section at the beginning saying this is a discussion menu and then appointed to the GitHub And that is something I've seen in many, many drafts, and that is something I found really useful. It's not in draft is, like, one of the options yet. So I I feel like we need to experiment a little bit more But then the goal is to have, like, one way, how we do this altogether and make it easier. yes, you're you're saying in in the that there'd actually be some information in the draft where that related implementation, maybe results in some text getting inserted So, like, what what what many drafts do is you have the abstract, and then right after the abstract, you have the separate sections saying discussion menu or whatever, and that has a link to the GitHub. something you find really useful. I think that happens as part of the the tool chain, though, if I understand correctly, that that's, like, generated text that the authors of the draft don't put It's Not sure. but let's look into it Okay. Okay. Okay. Alright? Yeah. Well yeah. It's difficult to form a position based on on 3 feedback But the way I get it is that there is interest."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:03",
    "text": "but it's potentially it's maybe too soon or there is more needed to for my recent opinion as far as how we should dispatch Yep. Uh-uh. Thank you very much, Charles. Thanks. Do you want to take 3 minutes? Okay. Giving the voice to to Mark to say a few words about the draft Just the publish. Sure. So Mark Nottingham, I'll I'll be very brief. I'm sure we can resolve this in the remaining time. I I published a draft, which is a carbon copy with only a few logical modifications on the document state. of the discuss criteria. has long been published by the ISG. And the idea behind this is that the discussed criteria are effectively a contract between the ISG and community. that that it is the criteria that it that it uses to to judge our documents. And as such, the community deserves to have some say in that or at least some some buy into its legitimacy. it it obviously, the ISG needs to be in control of it as well, but it is joint property. And so the idea here is just to formalize the discuss criteria by publishing them. And in this draft, it is as is, as a best current practice document. I I think that's pretty much it. So I'd love to hear feedback and what people think about that. Thank you, Mark. So that's a question to you all. Could you please express your feedback on Martin's question on the list? that would be helpful. Okay. I'm I'm fine, but I didn't see anybody watching on the microphone. So -- There you go. David'skenazi ballot and busiest. Again, speaking in my individual capacity."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:04",
    "text": "I I think this is really interesting. I have had the experience that the bouting criteria where it's sometimes unclear, and I think from the discussion we had earlier in this session, involving the community sounds like a good idea. So I would be very supportive of a narrowly scopes, working groups that would look at balloting. So maybe that's the first output. Maybe some of the other outputs are things that we discussed earlier with Adrian and Rich's draft. I think that's where I would go as a next step. I think there's definitely conversation we had here and work to be done. Account. Robert Sparks. I like the idea of having a consensus like, process that involves the whole community on building up this content. I would encourage a living document approach as opposed to shoving it into a BCP because of the weight of continuing tick track, that consensus should it need to change. Erica Scolla. I'm generally supportive of this. I think that probably working group is in order, but I think perhaps a good place to start would be merely getting community consensus, having established that the current text, I think it serves as well, but could also use a revision is a starting point getting that out the door and then continue to revise. and it'd be good. Just just really having, as Mark says, that'd be the contract in the community and the the ISG explicitly, be a starting point, and that'll allow us to continue that rate on Stephen Farrell. I think it's worth discussing. I'm not clear that putting that text in an RFC or some derivative of it in RFC is the right hand outcome"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:02",
    "text": "Lars I could not speaking as the AD for Gen Dispatch, but as an ISG member. so they discussed criteria originated when I was first on the ISG a long time ago, and and it was basically more a node to self of the ISG at the time because we had a bunch of air directors who were using discusses very, very liberally. And the rest of us caught the flag for it, and we tried to sort of draw the line and say, you know, no, you know, this type of doesn't warrant you blocking this thing for so long. But and it evolved over time. in the sense that now we also say, you know, it started off the list as, you know, these are not discuss worthy. And then we added some things about, you know, here's, you know, what we think discusses should center around. And that's, again, mostly a note to self because you can write ISG members incoming, and it helps them to have that content. And basically, now we point to it for the community to sort of look at it. not sure if I would call it a contract, but maybe maybe it's actually not so wrong. But I think it's I'm clearly an internal document that the ISG owns because it owns the ballot process. Right? There's no BCP that says how the ISG balance. And so it touches on the first discussion we had earlier, but that's where the is at the moment. Right? That said, right, Have you tried emailing the ISG and say, hey. I have a suggestion for you. do you think about this change? pretty sure you would probably walk in open doors. Right? It's Have you tried it? Alissa Cooper just I mean, picking up on the notion of this as a contract, I would suggest bit of an expansion. and our thinking about this, to also how the community understands the discuss criteria, and I would include the abstain criteria and that, like, Epstein has a dictionary definition. Yes. My friend and abstain means I don't wanna talk about this anymore and if we're gonna have something like normative that says, this is how these things are to be interpreted,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "It's not only the how the ISG is interpreting them, but also how the counterparty validing processes is interpreting them. So I think if we go down this path gonna be a little bit more complicated than it seems. It's not just gonna be like rubber stamping whatever us today because you're gonna get all the other parties to the process involved, then there should probably be, like, some obligations on the the non ISG parts as well. I I I mean, I'm a big fan of of any we can do to make the discuss criteria stronger. But I I will point out this is not a discussion about discussed criteria. It's about a discussion about the change control of the discussed criteria. We need to be very clear about that. And that requires probably updating some other BCPs in this charting work, not just not just this draft, which is fine. I'm not I'm not saying we shouldn't do that, but that that is funded played with the discussions. okay, okay, We're done. Thank you very much. Alright. Sorry for maybe not being fair to all the presenters in term of time. I'll try to improve. Thank you very much. Okay."
  }
]
