[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "i think uh jaron is going to present about 75 25 fists okay thank you so um hi everybody uh it's 7 p.m in my time zone and so good evening good morning and good afternoon depending on your time zone and it's using tillers in applications working group so it's the last session of itf 10112 and i think we can start so this is not well uh i don't think it's it it's changed since last time and this is a living itf code of conduct it's uh uh it is uh presented by request of isg so that uh working group chairs remind participants in the beginning of the session so that we have a code of conduct and it's good if you follow it so emitting details uh useful links and job notes and so we need uh bullshits are collected automatically and we need uh one job describe i don't think whether we need it because miteco has a chat window and you can see it but just just in case if anybody can translate messages from the java or from the chat window in case"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "somebody doesn't have audio with your connection it will be great and we need two note checkers so anybody volunteers being a notetaker is a great opportunity for new newcomers in the ihf you get to learn everybody's name so life that was very convincing yes it's it's true i see on the on the chat i think francesca volunteered all right francisco this is peter i can i'm i'm since i'm not speaking about uh somebody personally about this i can also take some notes too okay it's easy now that we have hedge doc because uh you know everyone can just pitch in and help but still because we have to have some person who who will take care a veggie dog okay uh thank you hannes okay we got honest peter this is rich i'll also take notes when i'm not speaking okay uh i've already prepared a hedge doc so i think it it's save you some work sometime and so agenda for today uh administrator and we have finished with it and then we have three presentations"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "uh each devoted to the active working document and i think the status update will be reported by presenters and then open mic five minutes and closing so animation for agenda go okay going once going twice so let's start with presentations thank you thank you church for sharing the slides i'm your own shifter in not peter unfortunately okay i'll be presenting uh the work on the new version of pcp 195 or rfc 75 25 bits next slide so we we have published two versions since the previous in-person meeting and they even though we we do have a few uh open issues that i'll be discussing today the draft is very much stabilizing we managed to close most of the open issues and so everybody on on this meeting is encouraged to to read the document and seriously back to back especially the section that describes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "differences from rfc 7525 and provide feedback so specifically uh we worked on airpn and request support for some application protocols that still do not have a lbn defined for them we added text from uh the draft deprecates md5 and show one a we went deeply into integrity and confidentiality limits which are described for tls 1.3 in rfc 8446 but for tls 1.2 uh this actually required some some new work and i'd like to thank the authors of the aad limits for their help and we we added the requirement for the extended muscle master secret extension so non-trivial work but still in the big scheme of things um relatively minor changes to the to the draft and there are a few remaining open issues all of them actually uh around tls 1.2 so even though the rfc will cover both a 1.2 and one 1.3 and we're more conservative more careful about adding requirements for 1.2 and so those are open issues next slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "um rfc 8446 allows but doesn't but does not require a support of the supported versions extension we're not sure about the benefit of this of this extension for tls 1.2 servers and we would appreciate feedback from the working group if it does turn out that the benefit is minimal we would rather not added as a requirement even though it is mentioned in 8446 next slide uh so somewhat related to the previous one uh version downgraded protection um and specifically um games with silver hello rand the several random field and magic values inside this field this appears to be relevant for the main use case for ephemeral cipher suites and therefore we should probably um require edit as a requirement to the bcp but again your feedback is a pretty appreciated next slide rsa pss so pss for message signatures is already a should in tls 1.2 but what do we do about certificates and especially what do we do what do we do about certificates given"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "that real world certificates at least on the open web are simply not using pss as far as we can see so do we really add the requirement for support of pss and support of the signature algorithm cert extension question here next slide uh there's a draft in uh in the tls working group about obsoleting key exchanges it's kind of stalled for for the last few months and we are waiting for it to mature it is not adopted yet although we believe uh the general sentiment is to adopt it into the working group and we would like to be in sync with this draft especially if it is adopted and next slide a question that came up i believe in itf 111 by mr farrell uh where he asked whether we're breaking consumer documents um so actually there's progress since this slide thomas and i went through the 101 rfcs that site uh rfc 75 75-25 the vast majority of them do it in a very generic way either they just say hey here's a tls recipe and it's a good idea or they said it's a should or even a must to support it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "but no no specific details um there are some exceptions i didn't see anything of note in the uh 50 of them that i went through and thomas might want to disagree with me he read the situations in the other 50 but assuming nothing no surprise there are like formally breaking changes or in other words if you're compliant with 75 25 you may not be compliant with 75 25 bits because we are adding requirements but those are those apply to anybody who who seeks to be compliant with the bcp and not to any particular consumers of the bcp so this is the way we look at it right now and again feedback appreciated and i believe this is my last slide this is peter yarrow thanks for for working on that with thomas i i know i didn't get to it as quickly as you did um i think the only other point is if people have uh rfcs that or other specs because there's probably people outside the ietf for citing this as well that they are concerned about i think at this point i think we've done our due diligence to uh you know go through the consuming documents but if people have concerns they should raise those now or during the working group last call"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:04",
    "text": "so i put myself on the on the queue um i'll um just taking off my chair head for a while so you know there was a discussion in in sag around sort of the you know the work they're doing on deprecating or promoting or or some somehow uh signaling around uh crypto suites and you made the comment that you know this work really should have been or could have been in and done in utah is there any like synchronization we should be doing there any comment on that if you're asking i this is more of a good question to our good ads again i guess we can i can restate the question to our 80s is this something the uk should care about or should we just ignore that work or hope for the best or or talk to tls working group what should we be doing um hi you're talking about what was presented in sag if i understand correctly i wasn't there so i can't talk to that i'm sorry but i will check with ben afterward and look at the recordings and notes um but i'll get back oh yeah that'd be great to appreciate it i mean there is sort of an apparent jargon called that out during saga there is sort of an apparent conflict here i mean some tls is essentially doing sort of a a work making recommendations on crypto switch which is kind of duplicates um at least the intention of what the uta was supposed to be doing um and others had made also made comments i think harness"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "made a comment that well you know there is a there's there is often a tendency to to focus on the the web use case for tls rather than sort of other application use cases for tls which kind of also gets mixed in with that discussion but anyway yeah go um we'd be uh really appreciate any kind of guidance here yeah thank you for flagging that uh i don't know if ben wants to say anything now but otherwise i will uh well hear you here you are ben i don't have anything terribly useful to say now but i think that we as the 80s can take an action item to coordinate with the chairs of the various groups and get a real answer for this topic yeah we'll do that yeah just to put my hand up quickly to say that last time around we um you know we did cross post when there was a working class call i believe in in the utah working group we cross posted to probably dls working group and zag and other places so that folks were aware that this was the place to provide feedback on that document but it sounds i wasn't in this ag session either but it sounds like there was a bit of a broader topic that came up but we certainly we should at least make folks aware of what's going on here thanks so my question to your own and peter so i think from from what you presented i think that's uh probably most challenging uh is the last issue it's reviewing for 100 customer rfcs uh so do you think it is visible and in what time and we almost already know yeah we already ran through this review couple of hours and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "we need to to get together and make sure that there are no surprise findings but bearing that we can close that issue as well i believe as the other issues again we do need working group feedback on these issues but i think we have a way forward and so we are we are very near work and group last call and uh one of the actions that we depend on is the adoption of uh a draft [Music] that deprecates uh well and the roundtable is deprecated absolute gates into this working group uh is it right so we are waiting for the drop to be adopted we have not i don't know that we have a position as an editorial team my personal position is as long as it's not adopted we don't have a dependency on it so we can go into working group let's call whether it moves forward or not okay thank you thank you your own i think that was going to be an informational reference anyway wasn't it or was it we were going to have a normative reference on that the keck stock so even if it's informational but it does uh declare some things as deprecated it's much much better for us to be in think you should tour so thank you thank you very much thank you and i think we can go to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "next yeah just one more quick note on that i guess you know people are going to be people are always deprecating things and you know uh two weeks after we published the the rfc that replaces 75 25 bit someone could decide to replace something else right so these documents are sort of a snapshot in time at some level the best current practice and that's what the current is all about you know so i i would expect at some point we're going to uh you know have another update to this document at some point uh you know 10 years from now or whatever and we'll we'll be deprecating other things so we can't track everything that people are doing at all moments but this is sort of a snapshot in time of what we see as the best things to do right now yeah i guess my question would be is there would it be is there anything useful you could say pay attention to this for whatever this to see what gets deprecated in the future whether that's the ayanna registry or pls is there a easy way just to point you need to point somebody out and say hey this is where when things get deprecated this will be where you'll find out so um attention there so this goes back to the comment about coordination between the tls and the utah working groups uh if tls is publishing documents about deprecation then this is where you will see new things being all things being deprecated otherwise we will need to to find some other mechanism good job go ahead please okay hi um jeff galloway one of the co-chairs of tls yeah so i i think the intention is to to adopt"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "that we were trying to merge the content of two drafts and we're waiting for some uh action from the officer so i'll take that action item to follow up at least on this uh rsa uh kicks or the kickstart um there is as to the broader uh coordination question i think yeah we should definitely have a have a chat between the chairs and make sure that we're you know kind of working with the two groups as best we can because um i don't think there should be you know conflicts of interest here i mean uh you know we're all kind of working towards the same goal and i think the things we're putting together to kind of signal recommended um are you know mechanisms that any group in the ietf can use to uh you know put documents together to to do that um but certainly we absolutely want coordination i agree let's try to coordinate our effort thank you and [Music] we can start next presentation so rich please go ahead okay next slide all right um so last time i talked about plan changes they were all done basically the directory text x500 died unloved unmourned nobody said simplifying the texts an appendix related to simplifying the text you know if this is a standard then you should do this we can remove those constructs so next slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "uh so here were a couple items that were issues last time that we had consent that we got consensus on uh wild cards is simplified so you can only do you know star.example.com you can't do you know web.star.example.com you can't do starweb.example.com nobody on the list was opposed um the commentary is on the wrong slide um the removing pinning um yeah that that detailed section and and having that well if you found a match and didn't find a match look at the pinning uh victor had a couple of paragraphs of text that i think made a lot of sense so those were merged in my mistake this had always intended to be a standards thing and so it's still proposed standard not ecp uh there is more use of the you know must may should should not language and then the final pass is is a pr waiting to happen next page okay so uh other changes there were lots of editorial changes uh one of my main goals was to reduce the list of terms used um just so it was easier to for people to digest more text about why common name is bad and evil you should not use it a lot of that came from ryan sleevy um and now you know just read the whole darn thing it's not that long but the other big change that's happened since the last 10 years is tlssni is assumed to be used or assumed to be available and so a lot of simplifying assumptions could be made next so a couple things like to discuss um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "brian had submitted some text on multiple identifiers as in what you do if the client isn't sure which identifier it's using and if the certificate the presented identifiers have multiple things in them um there's some security implications from that that was posted to the list it hadn't gotten much comment uh but i'd like the working group to look at that i'll post a reminder you know a week or two after the ietf when things have settled down and say hey please let me know if you disagree uh there's also some editorial changes minor wording things nothing semantically changes with this pr that i've got um hopefully a better title so maybe something like naming in verifying service names in tls um i look at the the hedge dac minutes and you know the the title there of that agenda item takes up the whole page so we should obviously fix that um it doesn't have to be completely descriptive there's enough context you know people aren't gonna say oh what should i name my baby let's look at this ietf rfc and see oh it's got naming in here peter's been obviously kind of busy with the rfc editor program so he and i need to sync up see if there's more from what he'd wanted to do or was hoping to get done from 61.25 jeff has already said no it might be ready for working group last call in january depending on how much the maybe list is right so that's it that's the update um my comment on this slide uh i strongly support the idea to change the title because currently the title is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "way too long it takes three lines of two or three lines of text and if you can do it with more condensed way not losing the sense of the document it will be great and i strongly support this idea because it is it's easy to reference the document is a short title and yeah we'll come up with something shorter right i don't even remember how jeff and i came up with such a long title but we'll we'll definitely have something much better thank you so [Music] anyone in the queue hey rich here again i'm wondering just like we did for 75 25 i know there's dozens and dozens of documents that cite 61.25 we might want to do the same thing that um garon and thomas just did it's not that hard most things are just have sort of a perfunctory citation but um so i think that would be a good thing for us to do before working group last call and and the uh i think that the rfc editor stuff should sort of calm down here after i publish the next version so i'll have some i'll have some cycles to help with that okay yeah great we can divide it up offline but yeah i yes it's a commonly referred to daca we should make sure nobody's going to get too upset according to yay according to yachty's uh stats it looks like 73 rfcs site 6125 so we can go through the things and it's it's not it's probably not going to be a horrible task sounds good i mean you know like i said i think the big the big change is sni and if anyone is not willing to accommodate sni you know that bug is on them not on us yep okay cool"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "so thank you and some other comments okay it seems that the queue is empty so let's go for the next presentation so harness please go ahead hey guys can you hear me yes we can hear you okay perfect okay uh yeah um thanks for giving me time to talk about this document um put a couple of slides together on the open issues um and maybe some of you can provide a little bit of feedback on this next slide so there's really four issues which i would like to talk about today um one is on an issue with uh ccm8 uh when so ddls103 is in uh in us 48 and and there's uh in appendix there's some very clear analysis on what the security is that ccma provides and so that's a little bit even to someone who is uh remotely familiar with cryptography a little bit it raises the question of whether the security of ccm8 is actually a good thing going forward so we had a lot of discussions on this in different groups um so i would like to summarize those and make a proposal on the way forward the second item is about the initial timer values"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "and the idea of relaxing those we made some recommendations in the 1.2 version of the of the pcb and the dls uh and ddls 103 specifically dds-103 handles um retransmissions differently uh than before so so that's uh something to look at again there was also a longer discussion on the dls mailing list about long collect connections that people use um in in the industrial iot space and so there are some problems associated with that and that's the the third item and finally um that's the topic of uh what identifiers go into these end entity certificates um and what recommendations or examples could we provide there or probably provide better guidance what people use of course you can find more on the github issue page okay let's start with the ccm8 topic so um maybe not um surprising to to you guys uh but the integrity limits of ccm8 uh are quite low um obviously due to the reduced tax size and um if there's a very good document in cfrt that goes through different algorithms and and provides obviously with tunable parameters um sort of like in some sense some guidance for developers on how they could uh make a judgment of whether they want to take the risk of using ccm8 or of course or other algorithms and based on those assumptions and what is also so my our conclusion thomas and and mine was um after revisiting uh that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "literature and uh and the reference specifications we kind of came to the conclusion that we have really difficulties recommending ccm8 to anyone these days unfortunately it's the only mandatory to implement cyber suit in co-op and so there's some some side effects of making any recommendations it sounds kind of weird to make a recommendation not to use it when others idf specifications uh do otherwise and and of course we can't just change it and then people are upset of course next slide so we had some some discussions on on the lists on different mailing lists called mailing lists um uh we also discussed this in in dls uh even multiple times and there are different um the cfrg document i don't remember the exact draft name but um there are different tunable parameters so you can shuffle things around like message lengths or how many attempts you are going to give an attacker before he learns something and so on and so on but um and that's essentially the approach that um oscar takes or at least uh appears to be taking um with one of the recent drafts um and the approach is uh obviously one possibility to give the developer possibility to make their own judgment on uh whether that's a reasonable choice in a specific environment but there's also a downside um as you probably know is like developers are often um not really in a good position to make um that type of risk assessment because they may not necessarily always know all the parameters on on the deployment environment or like you deploy it initially here and then you would deploy it there uh so so the environments may be very"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "different so um as i as i mentioned on on earlier i'm i'm inclined to say hey let's not recommend this um which of course then leaves the question about what would we recommend otherwise which is um something on the next slide um so that's that was our approach i see daryl suggesting having other sort of approaches and i that was the rickard mentions the oscar document that was just referring to um and and maybe maybe this is uh a place where utah uh can provide recommendations so at least um consolidate the discussion so that we have a kind of a uniform approach to this but um this is just my take on the story from also reading the mailing list so in if if we pick something else if we say ccm8 is uh has this bandwidth uh reduction improvement because the tag is shorter uh but um it's maybe not worth it um given given the security aspects one could of course use ccm instead because that's already implemented in the devices the downside of that is that ccm as well as ccm8 is is in if you look at uh sort of like the common iot cloud-based services is not something that is um frequently uh offered so in in general like there's obviously uh if you switch from cesium 8 to something that is uh more widely supported than gcm would be a better choice but of course gcm is wouldn't be available in in hardware on those iot devices because for many years we have told them to implement ccm the the um and of course there's a there's a cypher suit um available for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "that as well um and also the uh using uh gcm with uh with sha 256 um uh has has different uh impact on on like code size ram usage etc as i as i wrote here but it's not a a big drama i would say of course 660 bytes is not nothing if it's um if it's in software uh which in this case in for many devices it would be um maybe maybe there are other approaches some people mentioned uh um police certainly the cha-cha poly algorithm but that may be maybe a possibility um if it's specifically if it's implemented in software um another approach would be to wait a little bit um because there's that nist lightweight crypto competition ongoing and maybe there's something that falls out of that that is more constraint friendly but in general i have to say like it's not so easy to say like what would be a suitable alternative here um and at this point i would welcome feedback from the folks in a group what you think should be best done whether this whole idea of moving on from ccm8 is is uh it's a bad idea and we should just reinterpret the analysis which of course we can do by picking different uh um what setting the parameters to different values or what theirs maybe they're totally different ideas as well a few comments as participants not as the chair so uh and probably uh john will john i think john betson is a queue and probably he will uh have a better uh provides a better comment but i've today i've reread his message to cephergy with analysis of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "ccm8 and the bottom line as i got it is that uh well htm 8 is has a limitation but it is not a disaster it is not a disaster if you limit the number of messages that are sent and if we are talking about iot uh we are not talking about gigabits and tens of gigabytes links it's usually a relatively small number of messages that are sent so that is probably not so bad but well i think john will comment better on it so john please go ahead yeah so um sorry to honest that i promised hummus to comment more on this in cf audi and i have not done that i'm sorry for that but as i said in song i think it the analysis down for tls dtls and quick um turns out very wrong for cccm a what the process does is that it calculates integrity advantage for a single key i think that is does not have much value for when you are in the security protocols when you have multiple keys and you're doing frequent re-keying so i think basically re-keying ccm8 as the dkls suggests every future power of 8 doesn't improve security at all i don't think there's any denial of service attacks here i think the important security measure in ccm8 is the 64-bit tagline i think that is very much okay for for iot raid you have basically never seen any practical attack on 64 or hardly on 32 max either so i think uh i think the only and for a 64-bit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "mac ccm8 is quite it's very good as you can see from the equations in the see if audi drops i think you wouldn't there will not be any better mac with 64 bits from the from the mist you might get something more lightweight with 128 bits i think um yeah i'll comment more on tfr in the coming weeks when i get some time yeah i can echo um yeah we we obviously went through them uh ira posted the the link to the document and the references to further there's references to further materials and we went through those um and also discussed it with internally with uh cryptographers we have there's um there's nothing wrong in the analysis it's just a question of like how um about the setting of the parameters uh and whether whether you consider this the result that you get out of it uh whether you consider that a problem or whether you consider potentially frequent re-keying specifically if you if you don't want to give an attack an advantage by having him probe you and try things out uh and then the question is like how many of the packets did you then um except uh at what point in time of failed uh decryptions do you then uh re-key and that's that's sort of the question of course in some of the iot networking technologies um the bandwidth is indeed very limited uh so so that's uh they are and maybe maybe those um they have their own uh link clear security making like i'm thinking about laura laura van but others um that's why it gets tricky is like um in some other technologies let's say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "a device that is connected using wi-fi uh let's say a wi-fi camera um and uh or something something like this uh what did what are they um what is that device going to do like developers need to then make the judgment and are these developers able to make a proper judgment or do they don't care um i i don't know it's it's really tricky so john will you answer don't uh continue okay you can hear this yeah i don't know if i have them i don't think you need to do any reason very frequent readings i don't think any denial of service is a problem at all you do need to do a re-keying for all of these protocols but i don't think you need to do any more frequent reading for ccm8 than you need for ccm ccm the full order for gcm i think that conclusion this if our draft is wrong i don't think that's true um on that aspect um my understanding is that in order to not provide um the attacker an advantage you need to after a number of attempts um failed attempts to um to send packets sort of fabricated packets you need to re-key that's the or terminator connection and that would be a problem right that that's a problem with all the algorithms but the limits are different i think i think that conclusion is wrong i don't think you need to read ecm eight more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "frequencies the full ccm i think that's a wrong conclusion in the in the dtls tls analysis i think the reason why they didn't is that they didn't really care about ccm eight um okay that's that would be in that would be worthwhile to explore uh a little bit further um yeah that was not our impression yeah we can bring this to severe g and uh john can you please uh send the comments on this and uh to cfg and probably cc to utah so that we can so my comment is that in i if you if i talk about wi-fi i don't think that's an iot device i think anything that is having more than one megabit of second link is not an iot device i mean on wi-fi saving you know uh you know eight bytes from the ccm is is not pointless i mean if we we only think about the ccm egg on very slow links when you don't have enough bandwidth to use the full size of the tag or you don't want to waste their battery time on the server and in that case i would actually think it would be better to say that okay ccm8 is okay on iot devices which are using smaller than certain bandwidth link and it doesn't matter how many how how fast the attacker can send the packets if they are still going to the one one megabit or 100 kilobits per second link it can only send certain amount of tries per second uh you know 15 four for example i have a 100 byte max 127 byte maximum pocket"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "length and there is 2 to the 32 pockets maximum for each you know session and it takes about a year to send those so you know wreaking once per month and you know it limits very much how much of you know price you can do so that's why i was thinking about having the bandwidth limit and saying that it is for iot and iot is defined having something that is bandwidth less than this taking a bandwidth limit yeah we could definitely look into that because the the yeah the message size and uh the number of messages is obviously a factor in the in the equation uh so yeah that will take that into consideration so can we go further yep next slide um yeah so the uh the initial timer value so in the previous rc we had a very high initial timer value for the dtls uh 1.2 handshake simply because of the retransmission uh mechanism which worked on the whole flight so if you had some radio technology where for whatever reason because of the high latency or because of um some congestion you had difficulties getting the the as a flight through in time then that was obviously a a big obstacle because then you would retransmit the whole thing and then uh you make the whole situation worse um so that's why uh the uh there was this high initial uh timer value selected um and and also not just uh over the wire transmission but also um the operations that take place on the device so nine seconds sounds pretty pretty high um like when you when you hear it but if you take also into consideration that some of the devices are actually also constrained devices"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "that talk to each other so there's uh you can seconds add up slow communication and so on um we also had the use of at that time when he worked on his um the use of ddls over uh over sms and um for some of the network deployments which were had very limited uh cell coverage so obviously there you had a lot of latency as well and and that made total sense at that time okay next slide and then um in dtls 1.3 we changed the retransmission mechanism from a flight base to a record-based mechanism and we added this message and that is obviously gives more possibilities than what we had available in in the 102 version and so um we thought i that it would be time to reduce and or relax uh that initial timer value down to um something like uh like obviously multiple options um uh we thought maybe something like three seconds like it's uh suggested in in rc 29 8080 or even going further down um like uh some of the other rfcs do um maybe a middle ground would be would be good but definitely having something lower would be beneficial for implementations to actually have a reasonable performance because um first of all many of the networks changed in the meanwhile deployments changed and also the the capabilities of 1.3 is different and i don't know if there's any objection to this whether someone has some some deployments that uh really require a very high uh initial timer value but if not then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "i think we would we should go ahead and relax it okay i don't have anything on this issue you can bring this to the list but yeah yeah i'm planning to post all the issues again to the list uh they they are um they're also in the in the github page but it's probably good to um sort of confirm some of the things okay next slide um so this was a longer discussion that was triggered by stephen fries who works for siemens uh who has been using iot in in sort of like in this industry 4.0 context and apparently they use dls connections with a very long uh uh lifetime and that creates some some problems um because uh like he was talking about certificates uh expiring and and uh like how do you do um re-authentication and and all these sort of questions and uh here's the link also included in case you want to read this up and so um we had a discussion with stefan after after the debate and and we thought that would be a good idea to capture some of his um concerns or some of the the challenges he has none of which require really protocol changes luckily but i think it's just something that is good for developers to know like what are some of the differences um in a dtls 1.3 deployment um that compared to a 1.2 deployment when you actually use these connections that last for a very long time and specifically now as with the cid that's even easier to have these long-standing connections so i think that that's uh that's something we wanted to add and if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "uh someone of you has a deployment with similar characteristics i think uh that would be extremely valuable input um i know like the iot segment is very fragmented people work in all sorts of different environments and so it's uh sometimes difficult to get um sort of the inputs from all these different uh environments whether you're working on a sort of more industrial setup or a more uh home iot deployment or whatsoever whatever okay oh john yeah i think it might be good to mention that you get a bit lower security i haven't read what you write in the document but tls.3 for long connections give forward secrecy but that only protects you in one direction kls 1.2 with frequent renegotiation uh protects you in both directions so if an attacker steals a key they can only they're limited in the date double forward and backward but that's um i don't know most iot you cannot it's more a consideration than any technical exchange yeah it's definitely uh good to make those uh those type of remarks yeah and capture those aspects uh we'll do john okay uh next slide what else exactly so um we relax the requirement on the use of the eoi 64 um for the end entity uh client certificates and uh because um just different deployments use very different identifiers for devices so it's very difficult to um mandate one specific identifier and that's already in the document um when when we made that change um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "we got uh feedback from from some who suggested that we actually provide some specific examples of uh other identifiers um and and the ones that were mentioned to us where from the gsma for cellular deployments um of course and then also in the in the case of lightweight mdm it has a couple of different identifiers specified and to give some guidance because that's often a point that confuses what people like to discuss uh about identities of iot devices i like to prefer to talk about identifiers makes it less uh dramatic but and then there are also different types of identifiers at different stages whether we're talking about things that happen during manufacturing or whether we're talking about the identifiers that are then used sort of like the operational certificates as some people used to call them and um i think in even in the idf there's some for some of the iot related protocols there's some diversity of what uh gets populated for these uh client um these these uh identifiers for client certificates if you look at uh things like anima brisket or those type of devices where you need to have certain um like they are not opaque identifiers they have a structure because they are used for specific purpose then for routing messages to um to the home home in quotes uh so so we plan to add um identifiers there and uh like if you have any preference on what examples i'm to provide that would obviously be helpful because there's a long list of them and we don't want to be sort of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "exhaustive there by any means but i think it's also a recognition that any sort of efforts to agree on one specific identifier is kind of a little bit uh um a losing ground at least from what i can see sorry you have only one minute left oh okay my presentation okay uh yep uh do i have one more slide no okay cool okay yeah if there's enough feedback well my question i have a question regarding this the last slide so uh is there any connection between the work that rich is doing with 6125b which is also about naming a connection between certificates naming certificates and we still s and this work yeah i see his um the relationship in the sense that um he's talking about the server side um if i if i understood that correctly and i think that's quite important um to also i'm i think referencing that work and and you should definitely do that um and and and the client side i don't think we can make the same recommendations on the client set as we do on the server on the server side because um they're just different requirements um and not just only like the way how the authorization works um for for the so for what you get from the server to match it up for example match the sni with uh what you get from the service certificate um the the authorization is very different on an iod um in an iot deployment from the client side um to the server or to multiple servers if you have something like anima so so there's some um difference and it's probably in in the end like if you see it from a from a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "high level of course there's a little bit of annoyance on the server side because you now need to look at different places uh for the identifiers rather than in one specific but um on on the other hand um like for most for most deployments it's it's um it doesn't matter that much there's no sort of like intro ability problem uh i think the intro ability issue of identify matching and identify against something else that occurs in in in fewer places like like anima or maybe maybe some other protocols that work similarly okay thank you i think that reference 61 25 bc is a good idea anyway and we are running out of time it's our time is over and i think we've just we've just are able to finish our agenda just in time and thank you very much for everybody who attended and [Music] hope to see you in person next time if it is possible and so have a nice rest of day goodbye thank you all goodbye"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:56",
    "text": "you"
  }
]
