[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "and then running home [Music] yeah okay so it\u0027s for our so let\u0027s get this going welcome everyone this is a deep-sea working group meeting so if you are looking for something else you are in the wrong room I thought the first guy was leaving already okay so not well you probably are familiar with this one so we can skip it yeah so you know the usual drill applies so please sign the blue sheets we need rubber scribes there\u0027s ether part so if you can contribute to taking minutes that would be great and the church hasn\u0027t changed in a while so I\u0027m Tomic Bukowski and so this is the agenda that we have for today so I\u0027ve missed regrets is what we are going through right now the next one will be a refreshment from Bernie about the entire others assignment this is something that\u0027s being presented previously but in being a while so it\u0027s good to have a refresher and after that there\u0027s a new presentation from Carlos about the related topic so which slop quadrant selection to use for following fly artists assignment after that we\u0027ll have a remote presentation about young model for HPV 6 so this will be done remotely by Ian I hope you will like it because if not I am the backup okay so that\u0027s that looks good and then we have the problem the most important part of this session today which will be a discussion about future of the working group and after that we have a presentation about another draft it\u0027s been era and that\u0027s been around for a while about multi requirement extensions for HPV 6 so that\u0027s pretty much it so and then comments yeah so we decided that this is the the most appropriate order "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:07",
    "text": "because we wouldn\u0027t want to have the future of the working group to be the last because you know we kind of estimated this will take 15 minutes but it might take much longer so and this is essential topic for for the for the working group so we don\u0027t want to rush it in any way and also the draft the problem statement is also just an informational document so it\u0027s not as critical as you know for all the talks all right with that I guess I\u0027m up [Music] there\u0027s a fuck up your son we\u0027re right does it okay so I was deal okay all right so can you events so a little background on this because it has been presented before and we did try to do a working group glass sorry adoption call but the background on this work is that there is a cooperation defined between I Triple E 802 working groups and the IETF and a while ago the I Triple E split up the local MAC address space into four quadrants and there was a working group within the ITF established to work on defining an allocation mechanism for those four quadrants you know half the outer space is managed by people purchasing you know typically manufacturers purchasing a interface identifier a no UI organizational the unique identifier I think it\u0027s the name of it so you know typically the first three octets of the MAC address and the rest of the address space the second half was sort of undefined it was you know usable by anybody and this is what they split up into four quadrants to make it a little bit more manageable as to how the usage happened and they wanted the I Triple E is looking for some algorithms to allocate that address space to devices and it was supposed to be much more dynamically allocated sort of you know and so it\u0027s a little bit like DHCP and that you probably would lease an address for a period of time and when you\u0027re done give it up and that\u0027s what caused Ralph\u0027s drones and several others thought that DHCP might be one of those possible ways of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:08",
    "text": "allocating this address space to either clients or hypervisors or any other devices that needed blocks of MAC addresses so Ralph contacted me and topic and I discussed it a bit and we decided to work on publishing a draft which which we did there\u0027s a people are more interested details about what I Triple E is doing and what they\u0027re looking for there\u0027s this presentation that Thaler did back in at ITF 96 that\u0027s a very useful slide deck to look at we also talked I presented this at the I Triple E ran meeting in late May we did this remotely with 10:00 and then we did a call for adoption to the DG working group which failed and January of this year was like adoption right over the new year time period and step next slide so I Triple E is still very interested in us pursuing this they are working on some other allocation algorithms that are protocols that are much more sort of at the link layer but they see that the use case that we were kind of focusing on which is more the hypervisor or VM manager that might need to assign lots of MAC addresses to you know each of the VMS that it produces was a good model for DHCP it could be used by individual clients as well to get MAC addresses but it was primarily for devices like hypervisors so you know the this was I contacted one of the key people I was working with to around the I Triple E work and they are still very interested in us doing this work and so that\u0027s why I am back here trying to hopefully get people more interested in it continue so you know the primary use case that we\u0027re focusing on is the hypervisor where it needs to allocate a you know may have lots of virtual machines that it produces over time that it needs to allocate MAC addresses to you know some may have a very short life others may have very long life and the idea generally would be that this this hypervisor will get a block of addresses at once filled them out when it needed more it would go back to using DHCP to get another block of addresses again it could be used for IOT devices as well or individual clients but that\u0027s a little bit harder model because you know it\u0027s a bootstrap problem because the devices don\u0027t if they don\u0027t have a MAC address to start with how do they do dhcpv6 so you know we do have a description of how that could be done you know why dates of pv6 it has all the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:11",
    "text": "existing infrastructure that we need you know got a protocol we\u0027ve got the network tools the server already knows how to manage and allocate resources the protocol what is designed to be easily extensible and and we\u0027re also in the DC working group so next I kind of covered all this so let\u0027s go to the next slide so the way that we\u0027re we propose doing this was to find new - new dhcpv6 options one is called the identity Association for link layer addresses option and it\u0027s very similar to the IAEA and I APD is used as container for the options to request link layer addresses the ll a CDR option is the link layer address option and that carries the address and it\u0027s similar to the ie address and I a prefix option next slide please ooh kind of a squished at all that\u0027s pretty bad in the conversion so the option is very similar and we have the t1 and t2 times fiddle for the renewal and the rebinding lifetimes so it\u0027s and it carries the you know can carry additional options which are the ll addr options to hold the individual address assignments next slide has kind of got squished but the link layer addr option has in it the link layer type the link layer length you know which in most cases would just be the ether values the link layer address that was either requested or signed depending on which way the option is going and the number of the extra addresses because the default would be just to give device one address but the idea could be that either device could ask for a large block you know hundreds thousands of addresses or the server can assign it some number of addresses at once and these would be continuous addresses you know so it\u0027s a block of addresses we didn\u0027t do it like prefix delegation where you have to always do stuff in powers of two because we we didn\u0027t think that you know that would be a the best way to do the allocation and said you know so that device can ask for a hundred or a thousand or whatever it wants and there\u0027s only a valid lifetime provided there\u0027s there\u0027s no preferred lifetime because that\u0027s really up to the hypervisor or who\u0027s ever using this to figure out you know how do they want to treat this because it\u0027s it\u0027s not it\u0027s you know it\u0027s a link layer address it\u0027s not like a you know a ipv6 address where you might want to use it for a time period and only use it for and you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:13",
    "text": "use it for new connections in the preferred lifetime and then use it in sort of only use it in existing connections when it\u0027s becomes deprecated you wouldn\u0027t want to do that for link layer addresses it doesn\u0027t really make any sense so we remove the preferred lifetime from that message you know the algorithm and the protocol works exactly like it does for address assignment prefix delegation the client sends a solicit with this set of options and we\u0027ll get advertised and it sends the request and then it gets reply it can be renewed we did simplify things in the sense that it really doesn\u0027t make that much sense to use confirm decline or information requests messages related to this although you know the information wasn\u0027t really come into play here but the confirming decline are not really used because how do you there\u0027s no way to test for you is a mac address already sort of in use at the MAC address layer so he didn\u0027t think that was necessary so an a hypervisor model the hypervisor is the client but it doesn\u0027t use the resulting link layer addresses it instead assigns it to their two VMs as it creates them and it typically will get a large block and you know the the VMS then can do standard DHCP once they get the MAC address next if an end client wanted to do this it could use a temporary MAC address and again it\u0027s kind of got squished off the screen here but you know it let\u0027s say clarify client let\u0027s not use you based on temporary Mac yes that was just you know we we think that because it\u0027s it\u0027s you know typically generates its DUID based on the MAC address it\u0027s got in this model you wouldn\u0027t be able to do that because you don\u0027t have a permanent assignment for the MAC address next so again the question is is this work of interest to the DC working group we did fail call for adoption the I Triple E would like to see this work progress you know question is should we try for another call for adoption are we gonna get anybody more interested Carlos will also discuss an extension to this so that the hypervisor or client can request which block of addresses in which quadrant of addresses it would like MAC address from so comments at this point questions anybody have any okay Francis yes Francis de Paul just a Christian who is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:14",
    "text": "a qualified option fed just not in Africa we had we had exactly zero responses ah not enough reference yes nobody complained but nobody you know support it so those are two supports the two of us yeah well and and you know the two people that supported our the working group chair so you know it\u0027s nice yeah well we would like some additional input Tim Chen was there any in those collaboration meetings was there any alternative proposed or is this the one that everyone would like to do from that collaboration meeting so the you mean from the I Triple E side yeah they you said you had a meeting in federal somebody yeah I didn\u0027t that was actually the ITF coordination you know I Triple E ITF coordination call where that was discussed on and Max who I\u0027ve been dealing with is the one that made that comment saying yes they I Triple E the ran group still wants this work to progress okay I guess phrasing another way if if for some reason this working group refuses to run with it what would be the alternative yeah I and that\u0027s I think they would have no alternative at that you know at sort of the higher level they are working and I don\u0027t know you know he didn\u0027t point me I kind of said you know is there a document that talks about how you guys are planning to do this at the Mac layer or something and he didn\u0027t point me to a document that exists for that yet and in the notes I found about the I Triple E meetings I did not see anybody you know comment specifically on yeah we\u0027re you know we have this new protocol that that we\u0027re working on okay Thanks so I don\u0027t I think it\u0027s still a work in progress is the short answer Oh Suresh so let\u0027s go ahead to click on the red one yeah okay it Suresh we don\u0027t hear you and you send me something over jabber he said Suresh with 88 of I support this work okay thank you Eric line a question about I also have a collaboration with I Triple E did they say anything about wanting a prefix style allocation of large blocks because if you did one a thousand max those are that\u0027s a pretty big set of messages did they have a feeling or or express an opinion one way or the other about you chose not to do Mac allocation well my prefix comparison too right yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:16",
    "text": "yeah did they did they think that would have been useful or both options using it we never really discussed that you know we presented it and they seemed fine with it so I suppose it could be added later if it was an issue rate or you could say you round up to the next power to if you wanted on these extra addresses right I mean you could do it you know a server could always employ whatever policy it wanted so so with this approach it\u0027s more flexible you can do powers of two but you can also do small chunks if you want to yeah which I mean well you think pairs of two you you\u0027re handing them out individually in the messages right the message defines the fuse to address the number of addresses that follows but those abuses are never sent so I read that as repeated said that that\u0027s make sense thank you again in the name of Suresh I guess with his idiot of is an as far as I know they are not a native from the article aside on this proposal there\u0027s no IETF Article II proposal on this site I think yeah I don\u0027t again I didn\u0027t find anything concrete so I don\u0027t know that there really is anything else that they have at the present time but they did when we talked to them back in May of last year they didn\u0027t want to do a you know a Mac layer you know cuz this runs over ipv6 right and so there\u0027s a lot of stuff you need to get going and you need a MAC address to talk so they\u0027re there they\u0027re trying to work on something that would work at the Mac layer I\u0027m Jim a sit there I laid this document and tried to respond to the other phone call I didn\u0027t see any degree of program about it but the usage exchange intended usage seemed to be bit hypothetical so I have not sure how to respond and that\u0027s why I was basically silent and I guess many other people probably did the same thing and if there are really people interested in it probably they should speak up then we can probably move forward if for example if either the document developed it I\u0027m happy to make a purely technical review on it yeah and I think I think next time around I I have to you know if we do go Duke for another call for adoption I think we\u0027re going to have to make sure that the I Triple E folks speak up sometime just so just for clarity is the use case for a device that\u0027s already using a MAC address is on the network to request more for VMs or tethering or whatever local networking use case it has within its own within itself I guess "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:16",
    "text": "it\u0027s that thing or is it to actually Ella allow MAC addresses to be requested for a node that\u0027s starting up in some way well I mean there is you know there is a way we did document how a individual device that wants a MAC address that was more longer-term assigned you know could could work but we don\u0027t know what it\u0027s it is kind of a contrived case because we don\u0027t you know we don\u0027t really have a good answer for that okay but the hypervisor stuff is much easier because it\u0027s already clear use case the thresholds are existing right yeah and and you know like the IOT use case of having the you know the sensors sort of get a long-term address we don\u0027t know whether that you know maybe Carlos has a little bit more on that so maybe we should wait to sort of figure out what we want to do based on his presentation as well okay that makes sense so I with that I think let\u0027s turn it over to Carlos what is it and we\u0027re looking this one here okay there\u0027s a little error there with this big button it says push okay so I\u0027m colored another from uc3m and I\u0027m gonna present this document that is kind of a compliment or extension to what Bernie presented before so in the background most of it has been already summarized by by Bernie I was yes I just want to provide a bit more details on how I typically has structure this local address in space in this what they call this structure local address plan Islam and they had divided that so the local address is spaced in four regions or quadrants one that is called extended local identifier which basically they they have a company ID and then that it uses with 24 bits and then there B meaning 24 bits can be used for us any addresses for that particular company d so this is basically to assign local addresses based on a kind of vendor kind of thing then they have another quadrant that is called a standard assign identifier space which is supposed to be managed by protocols define it by @hv "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:16",
    "text": "standard and in that case there are 44 bits available for assigning addresses then there is another quadrant that is called miserably assign identifiers in which they don\u0027t specify how the addresses are assigned for that particular corner so by an administrator using whatever mechanism and then there is another quadrant that is reserved for future use although can also be used kind of similarly to the previous quadrant their mistress will be assigned in the fire quadrant so those are the the four different regions that have been defined by HPV you to see or the local address in space here is basically how this is how they divided and identify the different quadrants so you can see at the top of the slide the four first bits of mcalary\u0027s you have the one that we identify if the MAC address is unicast or multicast then you have the bit that identifies this global or local address and then the the following two bits are used to identify the actual quadrant for the Immaculate a space based on the combination you have the four different quadrants that I summarized before so the motivation kind of prana statement of the this document is basically complemented the work that is being done in I Triple E that is defining the mechanisms to address to assign addresses in the in the Sai quadrant this is what is been done in 2.1 seek you then the resource of work here at ATF as Bernie has presented and in this document but basically we do is complement this ideal work part by refining mechanisms the low to specify or to provide convey preferences on what kind of which kind of quadrant the addresses must be taken off to assigned addresses to the client or to Lily why this is required well this is what I will try to explain summarized with some use cases in the following slides basically this motivation for having the need of specify or provide the preference on the quadrant so we have different scenarios actually let me see I press twice the back so different scenarios depending on whether we have we are playing addresses to a terminal to a hypervisor like Bernie defined before so let\u0027s start with the terminal kind of a scenario we have Wi-Fi terminals those interfaces those terminals have interfaces that come with some kind of burn in my calories typical situation nowadays and in some cases now there are the requirement or the need to assign local addresses to those devices that will replace that kind of temporal MAC address we have identified to a scenario but there may be more this is just the this motivation just tried to identify the need for for this slab quadrant selection but then maybe all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:16",
    "text": "the scenarios that required that one is what we call the Internet of Things IOT in scenario in which basically you have devices that may come with one address that you need to assign a local address because there may be so many of those devices that you actually need to to do this kind of thing in this scenario again it\u0027s an example device I\u0027m not typically moving but there may be other scenarios in which they are and based on that we discuss in the trap that the quantum that would be more suitable for this is they a lie or the other side based on this for example maybe there is a need for the IOT devices to use a monk address based on a kind of vendor company ID this kind of fix this one example another example is what we call the privacy or the Wi-Fi terminals is now well known and it\u0027s also anaphora natively that in order to mitigate the privacy leaks or the privacy threats by by licking the the location tracking your location based on your address that the address that you are using there is a need for changing dynamically or upon an event like connecting to a network the MAC address that you are using so it cannot be really that obvious that you are here now in Prague and maybe tomorrow we are in our home country by it by looking at the MAC address and tracking that in this case devices typically are mobile so that\u0027s why you want to avoid this distraction and in this case the eye qualen probably is the best because it\u0027s the one that allows to to make use of more space and to distribute the handle of the MAC addresses and to basically make easier to randomize the address that you are using for for that then we have also the hypervisor or datacenter scenario in which we differentiate two different situations basically a hypervisor is getting or the question addresses to be used for a virtual machine but this route or machine may be a built on machine that is not expected to move from the actual host server what is gonna be Stan shitted but there may be situations in which you may forecast over see that that built on machine maybe they need to be migrated to another OH another data center or another server in the same dataset in this case in the case that you may want to migrate a function this may need the context of the function to be maintained and part of the contest maybe they mark address that you are using so again in the drive we discuss what is the best program for 40 situation compare us or well compared to destination with the function is not expected to to move out at all and that you can use a different kind of quadrant that facilitates operationally the way the address is allocated for some pollution a quadrant that depending on the scenario and we are assuming here a large deployment in a data center to me "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:16",
    "text": "when I use a a I to facilitate the the assignment of the management of the addresses by speeding or or having multiple pools and you can manage those independently without any coordination as compared as the case in which you may wanna migrate a function and you may need to avoid address application is a function the built on machine goes to to another region with another pool of artists then this is basically a summary of why we need this need or explain your conveying the preference of the quadrant then how the quadrant selection will be done well this is not in the scope of this draft but in the draft we define it or we provide some examples like ok we have the imaginary we have the the mechanisms to to convey or to include the preference of the quadrant how we will be selecting which quadrant what the sample we take the IOT a scenario the client or the network of combine with the client may have or may use different parameters to guess what is a test quadrant so sample the type of ilt deployment if it\u0027s a small one a large one if the device is gonna be moving or not if the device is manager and manage if the device is on battery or not depending on this there may be different scenarios we don\u0027t go into the details but these are things that can be used to decide which preference which quadrants you wanna do when I use in the case of a Wi-Fi router device what in this case the need of privacy or location tracking mitigation or not may be something that you wanna need to consider in order to select which is the best address that you wanna use and in the case of a datacenter the hypervisor might be interact with a cloud management system like whatever you are using OpenStack or whatever all the filter infrastructure manager we use more NFB terminology to know is a function that you want as found instantiate is suspected to be my rate of moving or not and based on that select the best preference so this kind of the meet the motivation then we define in the document some extensions to the previous mechanisms defined presented by Burnley we have heared the example figure for a client selecting a conveying the preference to to get an address from a particular quadrant in the drive we also define the make the signaling when there is a relay doing this and basically in order to do this we define a new ia a little option for conveying the preference so basically the option allows to identify several one of several quadrants and associated preference to that so the server can get that and based on that assign the best address trying to meet the preferences conveyed by the cry nor by the relay and this is a short summary of of this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:18",
    "text": "document it\u0027s an a compliment station for the previous document presented by Barney so question is is the working group interested in working on this I guess then the response is very much related to the former question if there is no interest in working on the other document there will be no interest on this and if if there is is that also something interesting to look at so we are of course very will be very happy to get any feedback on on this on the mailing list yeah we\u0027re any comments here if anybody has any all right so I guess we\u0027re back to the original question that that you know should we try for another call for adoption on either one or both of these it might also be that you know appropriate to merge these documents into one either you know after the call I Tim winner is you nhi well you know I think we should I\u0027m in support of these documents I would keep him separate though I think they have different functions so I would leave them as two separate documents but I would kind of try to get advanced then at the same time Tim Jones just another voice to say the same thing I think we should have another go at adopting it I don\u0027t think it failed last time it just it wasn\u0027t refused it just couldn\u0027t get enough but so we cannot assume silent support so it would be like you yeah true brexit star we should have a series of indicative votes decide what we want I know I wish and said so yeah I agree that we should try again and we should keep it open separates it seems the second topic there\u0027s a lot of subjective things in there yeah whereas the first topic is much more yeah just a protocol spent okay thank you sorry okay so Suresh also supports making another pass at the call for adoption so we will start the call for adoption shortly after the meeting so look for look for it and please do respond yep okay so we come the next one is young update from young good morning yes sir can you hear me yes oh that\u0027s Cygnus isn\u0027t it um do you have the slides up I can\u0027t see them from here yeah let\u0027s hope it works "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:21",
    "text": "I\u0027ll just wonder if I can save us all oh yeah karakov taught them that it can we go to see the yeah first like that yep you\u0027re on the first line the second slide I can\u0027t see the number sorry okay so this time last year was the last time we didn\u0027t update on this there\u0027s been a couple of updates since then not huge things but there\u0027s been some reviews from mainly from the chairs and from Francis we\u0027ve opened the issue tracker has proposed back then and you know it\u0027s a fair bit that\u0027s been double there there\u0027s still 15 items which are open some more severe than others can I make a request at this stage if you\u0027ve got if you\u0027ve opened anything on the issue trackers there have been updates and attempts to resolve some of these things so could you review those again and just sort of see whether the changes that are proposed you know meet your what you\u0027ve raised do you know if you\u0027ve got any other comments that need to be addressed in there as well that would be welcome please next slide okay so one of the comments that came in from I think it was the ISC work on on implementing this was that we were lacking any configuration for storing leases and managing that side of things obviously this stuff is not some you know written in any standards documents anywhere but it\u0027s necessary for a DHCP server so it makes sense to have some kind of generic functions or or you know ways that we can talk to common implementations in order to get that part of things working so we\u0027ve added stuff from that which I think was mainly listed lifted from the ISC implementation that was done there\u0027s been some other small cleanups as well but nothing too major in there but those are the main changes since some 0/6 next slide please right so I\u0027ll come on to the main problems with it in a second but really where we are at the moment is that we\u0027ve got had a real lack of activity we\u0027ve got about five authors listed on there I believe I am the only person who still even got any interest in doing this I think most people have moved on either because they\u0027re their courses are finished or you know they\u0027ve changed their roles or whatever else so this is one of the major problems with getting the thing done I already made the comment about if you\u0027ve if you\u0027ve wrote some comments in the issue tracker on github please can you have a look through those so I\u0027ll reiterate that there\u0027s also as I mentioned the ISC key implementation some real world stuff there and we\u0027ve been looking at it from here and within DT and you know it looks like there\u0027s something very promising "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:21",
    "text": "there I said this tutorial yesterday but it would be would be really good if we can try and sort of fold in the work that they\u0027ve got there take the learnings from it you know update the model in the draft accordingly and so you know I think this is going to give us a much much more worthwhile and road-tested model to work to work with them that will hopefully get published okay next slide please right so yeah that as I mentioned I mean would the lack of authors and and work that\u0027s gone and recently it feels like we\u0027re kind of starting to languish a bit from the milestones we were meant to be ready for to go with this by the middle of last year I think we\u0027re still a little way away from doing that and one of the things that I noticed on this when I was looking at this earlier this year is we\u0027ve got a scope that\u0027s just probably an unachievable as it stands at the moment so you know a combination of lack of authors and scope which is too loud means that it\u0027s unlikely that we\u0027re going to have anything that\u0027s kind of ready to publish anytime soon from from where I\u0027m looking at it at the moment next slide please okay so my shattering proposal to the lack of authors is to add new authors and yeah I spoke to topic yesterday and it it seems that there may be a guy from Iasi who\u0027s willing to join us which would be obviously more than welcome if there\u0027s anyone else in the world who\u0027s got any interest in this then please don\u0027t hesitate to get in touch and you know get involved because I think you know if we probably just need one or two extra people who\u0027ve got some time to spend on it and and it would be enough to kind of get it over the line so please yeah if if you\u0027ve got any interest in please get in touch so those if any volunteers in the room besides me ho-ho the volunteer don\u0027t be shy I think there\u0027s one more yeah alright next slide okay obviously reduce the scope so yeah we\u0027ve got to boil the ocean problem but we\u0027ve also got the fact that as the protocol okay it\u0027s not it\u0027s not growing as far as that has been historically but his filtrate continued to extend its you know it\u0027s getting further and further away from us so the proposal here is really can we discuss this to a point where we can get something which is useful to be implemented as aspect extensible and you know and one of the things that I would suggest here is that we had maybe an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:21",
    "text": "appendix which would describe how to extend and to add things in as as is necessary necessary in the future but yeah I mean if we can cut it down to the point where we just you know have enough to be useful and a framework to build on then I think we\u0027ve got most of the stuff there already written and you know the exercise would be much more about cutting down the unnecessary be scope stuff you know tightening up what\u0027s in there adding this appendix and yet we should at that stage be ready to publish so you know a combination of this and hopefully the addition of a another author or two then I think we can get you know get to a point where we\u0027ve got something ready to publish fairly shortly if we decide that this is what we want to do then and obviously we would need to discuss what we think would need to be in scope for you know the updated draft any thoughts on this proposal about what well if this is a good idea and and so what should or shouldn\u0027t be included yeah Bernie volts working chair hat offs I kind of think that you know it might be interesting to look at the way the DNS ops group is going about it where they\u0027re sort of starting to define stuff war long you know the what\u0027s in the Ayana registry so they\u0027re starting to find the you know the resource records and things like that and maybe that\u0027s something that you know we should think about here\u0027s maybe starting a little bit you know more about having a standard way to represent the options and and other data that is dhcp stuff because part of the problem that it you know because we did this same sort of work many years ago to try to do an LDAP model and the big problem is is that you know the especially for the server parts you know and and potentially even clients but you know I know the server better kind of and and the issue there was that servers are designed to you know take configuration models in in a different manner than like the ISE you know and Kia probably differs from the original ISC server and stuff so if if you tried to to produce one model then you kind of have to to follow one server [Music] architecture or configuration model which doesn\u0027t necessary with other servers so one thought maybe you know if we sort of build the common building blocks that people can put together to produce specific models for their serve our clients relays that might be more useful than trying to say oh here is you know the standard model to use for everybody I mean it\u0027s just an idea that that we could you know sort of start with the fundamental building blocks that people could then use in their yang models it\u0027s not as good as if we had a standardized getting model but again the problem is that you know the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:21",
    "text": "configuration models for these these things are just different I mean I understand your pointed I a while ago we split out the option definitions into being a standalone module that gets referenced by client server relay wherever necessary I mean as part of doing that work one of the things became apparent is you can\u0027t just goes right through the Ayana list and make yang modules for every single one that what you can do but it\u0027s but it you know when it comes to some of these things there\u0027s just kind of no points you know an ia PD for example is is constructed by a client and it builds up based on the protocol specifications rather than anything that\u0027s that\u0027s yang relevance I suppose you could reference at a state data to see what what is it that had built but you know it\u0027s a it\u0027s a minimal minimal benefit at that stage to your there\u0027s a so I mean I think we do follow this approach to some well wherever it\u0027s kind of logical to do this it\u0027s just you know to some extent I wonder without having the ability to configure them the machinery behind making those options work whether there\u0027s much value in it in some cases in other cases it does work in some cases I think it doesn\u0027t - your second point I mean yes I understand the implementations are different concepts though are fairly uniform and you know one of the things I had hoped that we would be able to do through the authoring process is get the input of more than just one implementation to be able to say well if there are you know where are those differences where does this module no longer function for those and is this stuff that you know they\u0027re just so different we can\u0027t possibly find a commonality here and it\u0027s not there\u0027s no point in trying or is it possible to come up with something that works for both and you know that would be really useful input to have us based on another real or one or more real implementations in order to kind of you know find out if that\u0027s something that we can do yeah well and just to respond quickly Ju you know I don\u0027t think that we have to model you know maybe I misspoke to say all options it\u0027s just you know those that are configured right in in entities that you need to worry about you know the ia na you know those kind of things that go over the wire and are just designed for the wire stuff I don\u0027t think we have to I mean I guess my feeling there would be basically you create you know anything that you can submit in an Information request would would be motorable in that way it\u0027s a little more complicated because you know there are things like you know even even things like the prefix include stuff right you have to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:22",
    "text": "have a model to configure that for it to be set so yes you know so I think it\u0027s a it isn\u0027t it is an interesting problem and it\u0027s not as simple as just sort of taking the stuff and mapping you know mapping the the text or the die grams into the yang equivalent because you know you have to really think about what you\u0027re doing because you know you have to convey the right information so that it can be used properly so but I mean yeah I don\u0027t know I mean that that\u0027s this has always been the problem with these models right is that there\u0027s different different ways of slicing and dicing how they\u0027re they\u0027re sort of put together and stuff maybe I don\u0027t know whether other people talk and see that\u0027s in so I was just going to maybe draw parallels to the way the young models or modules have been defined for route reverse Minh so there is a base model stroke module and there are certain options that aren\u0027t included in that the last I looked a year or two ago there was no way the DNS resolver option wasn\u0027t something you could do so I guess the question I\u0027m all for reducing the scope I think that\u0027s a pragmatic way of cutting something out I guess the question is is it then going to be useful someone if you\u0027re producing some something that\u0027s all free to scope that\u0027s that I think the big question don\u0027t worry we\u0027re honesty I see so two comments if you mentioned that there\u0027s a difference between the Tia Yankee kilometer and they wanted is described in the draft currently I would say there\u0027s flexibility on two sites the implementation that we did in Kia this was done on their tight schedule restrictions so we did what was the easiest for us but our model is not fixed in song we can adjust it and the long-term goal is to follow whatever ease is in the draft so and the second comment is I agree with Ian that it\u0027s in my opinion this is possible to define a model that represents generic like common denominator of all implementations and I feel that if the model describes more features that specific implementation implements so be it you don\u0027t have to use all the parameters in the model right so I still hope that it\u0027s doable having said that if for whatever reason we are not able to proceed with this approach what they are doing in DNS up would be the last resort you know just just to pick the bits and pieces that people could use in different ways yeah I would definitely prefer the way to go the way that the draft is trying to do now which is to define the full model well and just interject there I think the you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:23",
    "text": "know you can do both you could do both right as you could start on the I mean there\u0027s a lot of stuff that already there that we could probably be published as it\u0027s less controversial or less you know because it\u0027s sort of the option definitions things like that that that are pretty straightforward right and so that could be published potentially used by people and then you could still work on the second part which is just put more of it even more of it together I don\u0027t know it\u0027s just it\u0027s just one approach I mean yes certainly we could do that and you know the way that when we divided up and created a separate module just for describing options in there certainly I mean that could be split out into another draft and I mean we would need to get I think define as scoping first of all just to make sure that that\u0027s what we have there is useful and they you know it is defined in a way that makes it easy to reuse based on whatever we were doing the the server real a client models as those progressed as well but I guess it wouldn\u0027t be a case of saying let\u0027s just publish the the optional person and worry about what to do with them later on we would have to work with it you know different modules in parallel risk medicine I just kinda like to reiterate the I guess the idea to to focus the scope of this work into the the common areas where is required to get this running I think extending it out and I think Bernie\u0027s point around trying to capture all possible permutations and even vendor implementations is going to be quite troublesome and from a even from a network elements modeling point of view I think I\u0027ve personally resigned myself to that we\u0027re always going to have vendor-specific yang models I don\u0027t think we\u0027re ever going to be able to capture everything that we want to do in in common ITF to find models so I\u0027m just from a network element point of view I think we\u0027re always going to have custom proprietary vendor specific stuff so I think leave it up to them implementations if they will do some weird and funky things that\u0027s sort of where I\u0027m you know because if you define like building blocks about well this is a prefix right and these are the basic things you know you need you need the prefix blank you need this this this and stuff and then people can you know they can extend that to add all their custom configuration stuff that they may have and stuff because they\u0027re going to do that anyway you have to do that anyway and so it and putting the model together is also you know putting all the elements in how they are configured organized sometimes as a problem as well because that\u0027s done differently in different configurations server implementations or client implementations I mean what I would hope to see in that case is that as I mentioned that you know the building blocks of and the terminology and concepts around how we configure "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:23",
    "text": "populate the DHCP server are pretty common so a model that allows you to do that and can be as much as possible implementation agnostic I think is what I would like to see something that is also or commentable with whatever vendor specific features or you know customizations that happen to be in there that you know I may wish to take advantage of I may wish not not wish to but you know though those are things that they get applied on top of the standardized skeleton and you know it that I from what I\u0027m seeing you know what I would like to do is get this get this skeleton and you know that\u0027s that\u0027s what I\u0027m I believe I I think we can do I mean Bernie he did from your perspective do you see anything in the model as it stands at the moment that would mean that that\u0027s not possible I I\u0027d have to go back and and look at it because it has been a while since since I did take a serious go through it so I\u0027ll have to do that again but it you know and I think that you know it\u0027s a question I mean I guess the question is is and we need some feedback right is are people interested in working on on this problem whatever this you know this this yang model whatever it might be and are they willing to you know step forward and and help right on it because you\u0027re looking for more authors could we also ask the question is there anyone who would be looking to use this if it was if it was published and implementations for available richard medicine again as an operator yeah I am absolutely want to be using this to to model my bean cheese and servers and stuff along with the software model as well would you be able to provide a review on that basis just on what we\u0027ve got at the moment maybe not necessarily what we\u0027ve the stage we are at the moment but I mean if we were to do have the discussion about what we should include in the scope and then produce an update at that stage and would you be willing to review it okay great I mean so as a proposal on what to do next if we can see you know what responses we get to anyone who had wished to draw in the author\u0027s list once we have that I would suggest we produce a proposal about what we\u0027ll do with the scoping and put that on the mailing list and and then hopefully have some discussion around that and based on the outcome of that will produce an update and take it from there yeah maybe it\u0027s worth you know having the whoever\u0027s interested sort of you know virtually meet or something to discuss yeah I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:23",
    "text": "something like that would be I would definitely be useful okay I think that\u0027s everything that I\u0027ve got in there so thank you very much thank you okay so okay so let\u0027s talk about what\u0027s going on with the HC as a working group general me does it work okay yeah so I just want you to recap what\u0027s the situation with the working group right now and then we\u0027ll move on to describe what the next steps could be so this is the DFC charter so in principle have three goals first one is work on informational documents providing operational and limitation advice about the HDTV six so this is something that\u0027s ongoing so we have the Yak models we have the link layer assignment there\u0027s also potential work of the with the Emory another freaking out chatter is that we are supposed to assist other working groups in defining DHCP options so in my opinion this this is to some degree in dysfunctional that I don\u0027t remember when was the last time we were requested to to review a draft there\u0027s some activity going on but it\u0027s very frequent and the tip thing that the tasigna Inchon in our Charter is to issue an updated version of HP v6 spec we did this so that there\u0027s a follow up that after an appropriate time we should work on promoting it to full standard so so this is in progress next so these are the requirements to promote a draft standard to full to full standard and we are working on this there are couple technicalities that we need to deal with the first one is there have to be at least two independent interoperable interoperating implementations we are mostly there we just need to confirm that the implementations are conformant with the update spec not just with the base 23:15 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:24",
    "text": "there are no major Arrakis that would cause new implementations to fail to interoperate currently they are known don\u0027t know unused features we are also working on this and the last one is related to IPR and patents there are no patents report at this time so in principle this looks reasonably good the plan is that we\u0027ll wait around a year after the 84 15 I was published so it was published in November 2018 so around November 2019 we\u0027ll kick up the procedure to promote this to full standard so I\u0027m Jimmy Sofia regarding number 3 I think we should think about how to handle temporary I a temporary III yeah yeah it all right in my understanding battery no one if you think and maybe not greatly increasing the complexity but I think it complete introduces some confusion about the interaction with other cases so if we want to promote it to internet standard then probably we might seriously think about duplicating it or making it more clear but you know I think TAS are already duplicated in 15 right we still have them in there I don\u0027t recall exactly what we said about them I don\u0027t think we changed Tim is coming up so I think we said that you know they\u0027re not commonly used but we didn\u0027t use the word deprecated or historical so it\u0027s still there as something making you I don\u0027t think we recommended using it but my memory of this is that we left it so gave words like this isn\u0027t common but it\u0027s still here so doesn\u0027t mean that to climb a full compliance we have to implement it boy when we when we\u0027ve done this for other standards like when do interrupt testing there are features sometimes don\u0027t get not everyone supports them right that there\u0027s parts of the standards that just not everyone decides to do it\u0027s still there in some cases you know I we\u0027ve in the past we get one or two implementations that might implement the thing and we say we saw those guys work together in this case there\u0027s a lot of other IAS I don\u0027t I don\u0027t think this should be the thing that holds us up would be my I would try to convince people that that\u0027s not a reason to stop this if we get everything else working ok next light yeah so this looks like your own action plan for the working group for 2018 so we still have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:25",
    "text": "some work to do you know this is basically what we\u0027ve been talking about today or will be taught like with the Emory problem so yeah I think this this is something that will keep us busy for for this year but what should we do after that so next slide so I just wanted to recap what\u0027s been going on with DHC so this is the oldest working group still operational so it was created in the 80s so yeah so the recorded history is close to 18,000 miles but we lost the history before 2001 so like that there was more now compared this to ever seen 24:18 that the working groups are generally expected to be short-lived so it\u0027s a short lift if you are a journalist okay otherwise this is like a couple air box yeah so I think now would be a good time to consider what we should do with working group next so so I think we have couple options the first one is once we deal with the current work we could recharge but the question is what the what the Charter would be we could think about something like we have for DNA we have DNS up so we could consider doing something similar like creating a working group about DHCP operations I don\u0027t know maybe it would be more appropriate to do it in in ops area or maybe not do it in ITF at all maybe do it in some other bodies like in ripe or nano so this is one possibility the other one is to put the working group in and dormant mode so we wouldn\u0027t really meet the the main list would still be active I think some people might get confused with this but this is something that we can handle and the last choice is to shut down the working groups so like for example happen to it many other working groups like big hi for example is a good example because they they shut down a couple years ago but the manatees is active and it\u0027s in going so if you open link there\u0027s active discussion about various things so yeah just to echo Suresh show game with his ad at home in support man going dormant after 80 4:15 goes to through standard okay yeah so just to reiterate we\u0027re not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:25",
    "text": "talking about doing this now but within a year so after after we finish the current work and also promote to for standard this also has a different nice side effect that will have a deadline that people are working on current stuff they know that they have a year to wrap it up so so any thoughts comments suggestions any preferences right so I think I think what we don\u0027t have here is a list of what is it that we think we might need to do what are the requirements of a group if it continued once 84 1 5 is is I think that\u0027s a very positive statement that it\u0027s out there it\u0027s widely deployed in in use and that\u0027s great but do you want to do any more protocol work presumably people will define options in other working groups and there needs to be some way perhaps of those being reviewed and so you need some kind of review function is that possible in dormant state it\u0027s something the ad could do I will add that you know for right now the and I figured like exactly what the text is but you know we do have a expert review process for both before and b6 options and so actually working well there\u0027s no today there\u0027s no need to go to the working group to get options so it\u0027s possible that you know some some other working group defines a draft that has options in it we hopefully see those early enough that you know we\u0027ve commented on them and stuff but sometimes we don\u0027t get them until they go to expert review and at that point you know that\u0027s that\u0027s the I in a process that when they get the document you know as part of the last call process they\u0027ll send it to the experts which today are Ted lemon atomic and myself for the DCP options and so we will get notified we\u0027ll look at it and you know we have to tell I Anna yeah this follows the the rules or no it doesn\u0027t you know we need we need to work with them to clean it up but and the other question would be if there are things we don\u0027t foresee that would normally fit in here again breaks octagonal language we need a backstop wouldn\u0027t area be a backstop for things that wouldn\u0027t be done yes that\u0027s what I would think is that we made it we may do in area stuff it\u0027s probably the good place to put anything that does come on so I think if you\u0027re saying if there are there isn\u0027t if there is a review function that exists already we don\u0027t need to sort of vote things in here they\u0027ve done elsewhere and we can take things to int area then you know I think studying is someone else had a deadline of a year to sort things out "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:25",
    "text": "and then propose dormancy I don\u0027t think you would go straight from straight to shutdown but after a dormant state and see what happens right now they\u0027re spring up you can undo them right or or if nothing springs up you say hey you know it\u0027s time to close it completely yes I think that sounds reasonable so I think you were in line then we have Ian on Stephen Morris I see a tooth two things one is follow the model of the TCP maintenance and minor extensions group which focuses on correcting bugs in the proto protocol and then very modest extensions and the other thing about shutting down the group is cast your minds back a few years when we had to DNS groups we had DNS extensions of DNS operations and DNS you extensions the working group chose decided that\u0027s it we\u0027re not going to they were not gonna enhance DNS any more and they shut it down and now if you look at the NS operations its operations and loads and loads of protocol proposals thank you get in so there\u0027s a bit noisy can you hear me yes I think there\u0027s a there\u0027s an interim state between the two isn\u0027t there I mean what we did in in software and actually we\u0027ve been hanging on like this for some time now is just it\u0027s not accepting new work and finishing the existing things that we have and I mean I think you know the idea of saying well taking 18 for 15 STD track and saying well that\u0027ll set the timeframe for it you know from what I see in some work groups you get times where there\u0027s a lot of stuff times where there\u0027s less stuff obviously GHC is in a lull at the moment and you know it may well be that this song shows that it\u0027s Peter out or it may just be a little that we don\u0027t know anything about so saying specifically anything more than a statement of this is how we\u0027re going to proceed or this is how we expect us is what\u0027s the state seems a little premature for you know a decision that doesn\u0027t need to be taken for a year yet but assuming this Lowell continues then what about saying after eight months six nine months or something that you just close to taking new work on you carry on with you know finishing whatever is done in there and and talk about moving to it whatever DAC ox or dhdx state ext or whatever else it happens to be I met personally just coming on in I don\u0027t think you know I\u0027m not sure we want to set up a new working group that basically takes on what the old one did right I mean so yeah well I mean they they you\u0027ve always got this problem then of what happens to any new stuff that comes in because you know saying that protocol is complete finished and and we\u0027ll you know that\u0027s almost certainly I\u0027m not going to happen is it there will be new things that will be needed we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:25",
    "text": "don\u0027t know what necessarily what those are at the moment so we need a practical way of being able to handle those okay it\u0027s Shane Kerr I just want to caution against using a comparison with the DNS space here because in DNS there was a long period where new development was basically suppressed in the ITF in order to focus on DNS security and once that completed there was a lot of interest in new developments and new technologies plus the technologies continue to evolve not super rapidly but but they do continue to evolve so I don\u0027t know that it that we need to be too worried that the same thing is gonna happen in the DHCP space everything the gain for suresh music he says to team yes this would be the backup plan okay so any other comments I don\u0027t see anyone so yeah I suppose the seats so we\u0027ll have to pun light out and end up changing based on what happens between now and then anyway so it\u0027s just sort of you know we just wanted to sort of open the discussion to see what people were thinking at this point in time that that we should do and you know again the main goal over the next year will be that or even less is to advance 84 15 so anything that people can do to you know help with that which is basically to confirm that you know existing implementations adhere to the requirements of that document you know they currently adhere to the 3315 36 33 and stuff like that but there were some not significant changes but there were some minor changes made to sort of pull the work together and so we need implementations that are really closely following 84 15 all right I think with that we\u0027ll go to the hello everyone hello hello everyone my name is Alena franching Ohio University today I\u0027m going to introduce our draft of the statement of multi requirement extensions or dhcpv6 and I will first introduce background and the current extension practices and then explain "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:27",
    "text": "where we can extend the HTTP v6 and finally we will present give an extension case ipv6 address generation is closely related that you will be knowledgeability the security privacy protection and accessibility of the networks and the HTTP v6 can be extended by new options messages and protocols tht be some DHCP servers in a software provides interfaces to allow for user-defined extensions some people may suggest that we can modify open source HTTP servers to do the job however it is very difficult and we needed to maintain that the code and so when Neil and general inside of how to solve the extension problem better currently we have three extension cases the first one is to extend options this is the most common practice and the second one is to extend messages for example actually actively squarey provides current messages to allow administrators to extend the HTTP server and the third one is to to extend entity for example radius is introduced into the estate to conduct authentications for dhcp server implementation seek cisco city NR provides a extension API to allow administrators to extend their DHCP server curettage that he provides poking mechanisms to do the same job here we summarized a dhcp general model which includes for several paths the HTTP interior that is the kinds relays and servers tht take messages with options and the messaging processing functions and adjust generation mechanisms next so we will introduce where we can extend at the edges ipv6 die that is get sticky messages options and message processing functions and adjust generation mechanisms we will introduce each point from the stators problem and the possible solutions let\u0027s say at least eight messages currently we can define new messages and but the effect messages are in plain text that is there is a lack of privacy protection our messages RFC 78 24 provides privacy protection of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:32",
    "text": "privacy considerations for th the key basics while we think one of the most possible solutions that we increase all the dhcp messages second ones are the options currently we can define your options to convene or to carry new parameters for example vendors specific information allow us to define new sub options to serve the six of our private purposes but some parameters make him from users that is to say this parameters uncertain and may change we think well there are two kinds of possible solutions the first one is that clients are provided interfaces to obtain user parameters however there\u0027s there are few such interfaces the second one is that relays obtain the little parameters and first and then Azzam in to DHCP requests however this needs the support of other particles a third line is that is the message processing functions currently some servers providing the basis to allow for user-defined extensions and this customer customers how servers handle and respond to the DHCP requests however not all the SCP software containers this extension we think the HTTP server may saw support support the user-defined the extensions and the last one is just generation mechanisms currently there are many many ipv6 address generation mechanisms and DHCP servers usually generated renderer ipv6 addresses however different networks may need different adjust generation mechanisms - due to the different requirements so we think the possible solution is that to allow user defined and the different address generation mechanisms to compete to become figured here we conclude a - extension principles the first one is do not change the current decades the key general model the second way is to use the simple interfaces to define and support the extension other new principles can be a delay in the future here we present we give an extension "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:33",
    "text": "case which is published in a Tripoli infocomm 1919 2019 and considering such a requirement that ipv6 addresses are generated from user identifiers to for accountability and privacy and we have to do two things to achieve such a goal the first one is that clients since their user identifiers to our two servers a second wise servers generator addresses and assigns them to clients however this needs the help of other protocols we\u0027re wondering if the DHCP is more extensible so we can do it better with thanks for the changes compared with Alvaro that way thanks for Bernie\u0027s valuable comments and we\u0027ll address well just in a in the Owen next place where I\u0027m not sure DHCP is injured th-these working group is interested in this work so any comments thank you and again currently this is an individual submission and I think it\u0027s on the informational track right yeah yeah and it basically just outlines you know these these different options that people have and you know the the hook points and extension points that some of the servers provide that let people perform or let system administrators perform more complicated tasks or customize certain aspects of the processing for their usage it\u0027s just useful I think information for people to be aware of that these hooks do exist so that you know when you have more complicated requirements that you could meet those without necessarily having to go and change the protocol or requests in are new features Tim John yeah I think this is really useful particularly if we are sort of winding things up and going dormant to publish best practice on how to minimally extend things without requiring big changes I think it\u0027s a relapse with documents and half so it\u0027s a get consensus on it and publish thank you I\u0027m Karen from Chiba University currently many research what\u0027s happenin pong to improve the genetic on bility and pricing most of this works are related with IP address configuration and the generation I think as one of the main protocol related with IP address configuration I think made it may be useful to make some extension to support multiple repairman\u0027s more easily thank you so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:37",
    "text": "tours here so from my perspective in principle all the information is already there but the the biggest value of this draft would be to have it in one single place and it would be good a reference point for people that what to do something uncommon to point them hi this is your static point so yeah I\u0027m in favor of this draft of adopting it if we go the truth France no the one with this one the pepper it\u0027s reference it\u0027s an not yet periods as an for come conference is in May this year so say because if you want to do it your pepper you have to wait and the other comments okay so it seems that the logical next step for this would be to initiate adoption call so but but before we do that so can I see a raise of hands for people who think that this is a good idea and would like to support it okay so there\u0027s quite a few people so yeah that\u0027s good so we\u0027ll go with adoption call just keep keep in mind that your support should be respected the make least this is essential we cannot just say well there were some guys waving hands and we adopt it okay so this one that was the last item on our agenda so I suppose we are done so blue sheets who have blue sheets if you haven\u0027t signed them please do so anybody have anything else for us and otherwise we\u0027ll see you sometime soon probably you know the next step will be the 84 15 full standard steps I guess it\u0027s the internet standard rule anymore thank you [Music] "
  }
]