[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "how's it going very slowly hi Elliot hi Carson hello hey wild we SP group let me just introduce Rohit who uh came on board Cisco and has been working on the um the nipy stuff we've been talking about and Braden is from Phillips who's also working on itome do you have a presentation you want to pull out at hog but uh yeah he's he's going to talk at um in the middle about um the stuff uh yeah but I think it's just talking right Michael we'll do the big preso thing in in Prague for all right where's the rest of the 1dm crew that's a good question oh nichas you know that's a d That's a DJ group right the 1dm crew yes hi guys good afternoon good afternoon"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:06",
    "text": "oh so I think Ari is not coming today um I don't know I mean he's on par the leave but um I spoke with him yesterday but I actually forgot about to ask about this meeting um H uh I will ping him hey Michael uh Nicholas I'm just sitting here in hedg do do you want me to drop the minutes at the bottom of of this hedg do because I'll take notes pardon so I'm sitting here in hedg do um and you know it's got like the agenda um there and I fig you want like do you want the notes at the bottom sure that's great okay but I would just type them into the agenda don't know why you need that wherever wherever you wherever you're we're at right okay I'll the notes okay hi Nicholas P your agenda into the uh hedg sorry I missed that one uh what you say my"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "Michael I pasted your agenda into the hedg do okay okay and I think at least Elliot is there already and I know it says four people yeah yeah I'm just s context switching from another meeting sorry for being a bit um yeah uh so it's 5 P should we start yes let's go uh Michael do you have the slides or Carson you want to share I guess you had slides the the slides are ready to be shared I can do that yeah um I'm just wondering what what the actual sequence of things is going to be well we should start the meeting uh tell people about the uh um about the uh um uh not well um and I'll do that okay so let's start here yes I CH I want to do this there is the meeting notes okay um and uh welcome everyone uh we have a number of new people uh anyone has Michael Coster on chat he might want to remind him we're meeting now um you already did yes yeah all right thank you um and so this is the note well um it applies to all ITF meetings and applies to this meeting um and uh there starts with a bunch of stuff about uh intellectual property um if you know of any then you need to disclose it and if you have any questions then you should talk to one of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "the chairs or area director um and then it goes on about uh different processes anti-harassment procedures and our code of conduct and fundamentally it is please be nice to each other and address technical arguments and not people and that's about it um and so uh let's go on um and we're in Meet Echo please we're a very small group um the in the me um I want to stop that I want to start this yes uh I want to share my thing in the top left you'll see there's an audio button you can send video if you like as well um this uh is the stop and start share screen this is for pre-loaded signs and then you can put up your hand if you want to join the queue we are a really small group this button actually creates and destroys the uh audio stream and it takes uh maybe one and a half seconds to do so I would suggest that you just push the button and then go to the bottom right here hey hey Michael we were seeing like a loop of your screen so it was um rather psychedelic it it was difficult to understand but um yeah I just wanted to make sure that the new people could see that there is a audio on the upper left and an audio in the up bottom right and I suggest you just open your audio and then mute yourself locally welcome Michael so uh slides are you ready Carston we're going to go into to that um or Elliott do you want to talk about first of all uh the SDF transports"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "I can talk about it yeah um yeah okay okay while I am somebody else will have to take notes okay um so I'm really pleased that uh rohid and Bron were able to join the call um Rohit Braden and another person by the name of Bart Brinkman um have been working on a draft that has finally hit uh the um the drafts directory it's draft Brinkman nipy 0000 um now the purpose of this draft is really to provide what amounts to ALG functionality for non-ip protocols so zigg or blle for instance the value of the work is really that what we see right now is a a bit of a game of what I call dongle Dash um and dongle Dash happens um when um you have a a space in your AP for um inserting uh a b radio or a zigby radio or even some uh proprietary radio and you know usually these APS have you know at most to and generally One USB port for this purpose well you know if if if you're deploying your APS all over the place and you happen to have more than one um application uh then this presents a problem now um what we think is is is appropriate is a bit of a gatewaying functionality in which we're content neutral right we Pro that that the that the infrastructure provides access to the applications uh it provides access to the devices uh from the you know so so the applications can reach them regardless of where they are um and so we've created we really being Ro Heat braak Bart and I've helped out a little um a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "model for this purpose um that makes use it's basically a restful interface today for control and it's tied to um uh also some mqtt in order to be in order to to take events um now why is this interesting to ASDF um ASDF has been focused on creating a a model you know the the the SDF model um and now I think the next steps if I understand correctly would be to instantiate uh that model in different ways and that being the case you want some way to carry that instantiation in particular for non for both IP devices of course but also for non-ip devices and this would be the way to do it for non-ip devices so as we are pondering rechartering what we're hoping is that this nipy draft um fits the bill for part of the work not I don't think it fits the bill for all of the work um but certainly for part of it and we'd like to um we'd like to have the working group consider expanding to cover that part so that's the we we our plan is really to to take a few minutes of your time in Prague to go into a little bit more detail this is you know I think the the purpose of this call was really to recharter but um I'm grateful to Michael and and to Nicholas for allowing me to to talk a little bit about this because I think it might help set the right context as we go into rechartering all right that's it for me um I'm done for now how about that questions for Elliot we're going to keep this maybe three three or four minutes at most here yeah I I just wanted to uh mention that we will will have a non IP segment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "at the thing to thing research group meeting on the Friday before the iatf and Elliot I think you you will be there as well um so maybe we can use that for some some discussion as uh absolutely and I apologize for not having turned on my camera uh for um while while talking um so yes uh I will be present um Rohit won't yet have made it into the building I think he's he'll still be flying in um so but I will be present and um the only thing I ask is that I I not be up first uh because I'll be getting off the plane at like 8:30 in the morning so should we move to rearing yeah oh okay thank you Elliot uh for the presentation and stuff um yeah uh let's try to squeeze this in on on on the in the meeting on um uh in Prague um we have a slot for you there a short slot these your slides you want there you go Carson okay thank you um so um I prepared two slides on on the base SDF document because we are still in work R"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "call processing of that and then I will talk about rearing uh so just a a quick uh reminder that uh we essentially passed the working group Last Call on dash6 but decided that we wanted to get some additional reviews and we got a couple one of which already is processed that's David Neo's uh review and one hasn't been completely processed and I apologize that I just couldn't fit this into the schedule before the um internet draft uh cut off on Monday but we also have another uh U Pull request that is currently being discussed and I think I will actually generate yet another po request uh and then at some point we should have a dash uh 17 and uh yeah maybe we uh do another one week working call on that I don't know that that's for the Chast side uh but the point is to to submit D 17 before Thanksgiving and um if if people have uh problems with this procedure or see see things that we still need to integrate into the uh Bas draft this would be a good uh time to say that okay so I move on to recharge ring um so I as the the agenda suggested I just looked at the the documents that we have and tried to uh structure this in into four different uh buckets um so we have one document that essentially is adding to the SDF infrastructure by uh using the concept"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "of a mapping file that that's a persistent working title that we need to get rid of um but the the point is there that we have a way to uh actually put a backpack on an existing SDF specification and add information that may be specific uh to an ecosystem or some application um so uh the the base document the base SDF model doesn't have to have pointers that point outwards uh but instead the mapping file points inwards to the SDF the base FDF SDF spec and adds information to that and our typical application for this was that uh Oma has these object IDs and object IDs obviously are not something that that are cross ecosystem uh so you would Define a mapping file uh that that adds those uh object IDs to an SDF specification to to an ecosystem independent SDF specification that you are uh making so tools that that actually translate ecosystem specifications into SDF might uh sort the document between General applicable that goes into a base model and ecosystem specific that goes into a uh mapping file and and that makes the base model easier to to use so that that's something that that is reasonably well understood but we only have very very few um attempts of of making our tools aware of of this concept and we don't have a good name for them um so that that something that that I really would like to to uh work on uh at some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:04",
    "text": "point uh now I have done something to my slides here weird uh anyway um the other thing that we noticed as as a to-do item is the class versus instance uh discussion so how do we actually uh combine instance information with SDF class information and how do we actually specify uh the the existence and the structure of that instense information in uh the stdf model so nobody has made a proposal for that um I think it's pretty easy to make a proposal but making a good proposal will be a little bit more work so this work doesn't even have a draft yet uh webly probably could come up with one in parallel with coming up for the new Charter uh so people have a basic idea of what what we're trying to do there so that that's kind of infrastructure things that that didn't belong into the base SDF uh document that that we have been working with last calling uh but are going along with it uh as as part of the architecture so the second thing uh we have been discussing is tool support and uh one one of those is the SDF compact notation uh draft now that that could be an informational document at least until we start using this in normative documents because the Json files are so hard to read um so I I don't have a strong opinion uh here uh we also have uh drafts and I just listed only one here uh that uh uh explain the ecosystem"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "mappings and we have one uh draft discussing a mapping between Yang and uh SDF so that that's useful that's not currently work that we are pushing forward uh but we have this this knowledge base and and we we at some point we should uh discuss what to do about that and and whether we want to have other drafts for for other uh translators so this is something that that maybe could be mentioned in the charter but it's not the main motivation to recharter that that's just something that we would add to that um the third uh thing we need to do is actually use the extension points we have in SDF to to solve certain problems and I think the first problem we have recognized is that SDF original SDF has no good way to talk about links uh but link links are obviously very important uh where links may be real restful links we would use in a corab based environment uh but or HTTP based environment but there also maybe some other form of of pointing from uh one instance to another instance and uh we we would um also uh discuss using Links at the specification level so we have a met metal level links which are discussed by the ASDF relations draft and we we have um links as the the subject of of the specification what what we are modeling there uh so for instance we could uh describe how a light switch is linking to the light that it actually controls um so uh this this work is is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "reasonably Advanced probably needs some work uh before we can working BL call well before we can adopt them actually and the question is is this actually two draft or is it one draft and how does it relate to the instance versus class uh support uh document and uh finally interestingly we got a new submission uh extended information of SDF for digital twin uh I didn't put the draft name on there that that's not right sorry but just search for the title in data tracker um and that's essentially uh providing location information uh you would want to add to um instances um so so you know what particular instance you are talking to I think this is a specific case of a more General uh issue that as soon as you have instances you need to have a way to name them and and to to provide identity uh to them so we probably would discuss this uh in the context of the um instance class support uh discussion but of course the the actual qualities also are uh relevant so how how do you actually describe those locations and different applications may have different requirements here um so this is just a new submission I don't think many people have looked at that uh and that uh would also uh go into the chter and then of course we have the the nipy uh work which might need a receptacle on on our side but uh uh I uh I think we should first have the discussion in uh Prague before we Define what that is so basically basically the the plan we have right now is uh recharging doing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "the work and and then profiting from it uh but we we have to actually write text for for the new Charter so that's my slides thank you carsten uh for presenting this and I think it's a yeah it's it's a good collection of what we have been sort of previously been been been sort of related work and so on um any comments from the group Michael cooster please go we don't hear you yet no we don't wait there it's for me it's like a 5sec delay on the unmute um yeah if we're collecting items I don't know how specific the charter needs to be but there was one other item that I ran into in using SDF and that is a I guess I'd call it custom syntax it's not like adding vocabulary but it's um there was a standard way in programming languages of adding syntactical elements that map to existing elements of the language I forget what it's called but it's kind of a standard pattern and I experimented with that in stf basically it's a way of um putting you know your your favorite term here instead of SDF property SDF action SDF event it's it's pretty simple but it's a it's it's turns out to be pretty powerful to sell SDF because you can have your own um your own custom thing there that that Maps back to SDF so it's just kind of a question of do we want to even open this up and have people Define their own syntax and you know have translator needed in the tool chain but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "um I found it to be uh people will will accept things that are sort of syntactically aligned with their other tools and um it's sort of a a way of internalizing SDF that that doesn't really promote it as an external standard quite as much um so I I don't know you know whether that belongs even in the charter but I thought I'd bring it up because now was the time if we're going to uh Charter to do that so I guess my question is are we submitting do we need if we're submitting item should I write this up and submit it um what's the what's the process for furthering the discussion on this items well having a draft would help um so basically we we we have an extension point for adding qualities we we don't have an extension point for adding new kinds of affordances so we we have property action event but we we currently don't have a way to add a fourth but that that actually should be going into the base document so we we should really hurry up uh creating that extension point I'm not sure it's even adding a type of aordance it's just renaming the existing affordances it's actually pretty simple but I'll write I'll write it up okay so I think that the that it it's always easiest to decide if something um is in Charter or Charter should be updated to include it if we have a really clear understanding of what it is in other words a draft on the other hand you don't really want to spend your time talking about uh writing a draft that is going to be out of scope at the end of the day um so I guess I you know would say that that bring your ideas in any form even if it's just two slides or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "something um and uh in enough detail that can figure out what you're talking about and whether or not it fits but a draft is perfect sounds good okay that sounds good I have a I have a working example also yeah that would definitely help so I I guess one question is um um do we at this point once we publish this document have we actually done everything in our Charter at this point or are there already items that uh we know we haven't we we still have to add um we don't have any more Milestones but that doesn't mean that we've done everything um like it says recent proposals to form an irtf formal description techniques research group might lead to another collaboration partner is that uh where's that I think that's I don't think we ufmg that that exists but uh right now they are very focused on uh proving security problems uh problems properties of uh uh protocols uh so it's a bit difficult to to address them with uh um formal description work that that is not fitting into that particular mold there actually will be something at the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "hackathon I think uh where where you actually can work with um one of the technologies that that uh is sufficiently Advanced that that we could adopt it uh for for doing uh this kind of of um formal uh specification and formal verification of security protocols more often um so I think releas the slides I I don't know how can I take them back can I take back well you can just press the X if you're a chair uh I don't have an X oh there no I don't have an X well Nicholas is owning the slides right now which is interesting oh okay I closed them okay that was weird sorry I just wanted to put the charter on the screen here yeah um so so you're saying that the research group is is tied up doing something else and then I missed what you said after that point yeah so they are Mo mostly doing protocol verification right now but that doesn't mean that they are not going to eventually start other work as well but it's not something where where we have a a gap in our work it's just an opportunity that we might be able to talk to them right I agree hey I'm sorry just to interrupt which research group is that that you're talking about ufmg ufmg okay so what about this last sentence I mean I I I don't see anything here that that uh we haven't done done but I also don't see anything that we have done in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "this area I mean it's happened we've had lots of conversations back and forth um I just don't know if there's a deliverable that we're missing here well I think having a transport will certainly help not that I'm pushing anything here or anything like that fair enough uh I I'm just trying to get at before we start adding sentences to our Charter I'm trying to get at it are there things that we're we already said we would do and uh the nature of that activity was either vague or didn't have a deliverable or doesn't need to have a deliverable um and just you know before we start adding things what I see is that you know we might reite rewrite write this last paragraph in the charter um to say that we're focused on extensions or you know what I don't know probably all the rest of it is pretty motherhood is and could stay mostly the same yeah so the the ACT content of the chter is the first paragraph after the heading the ASDF working group um the second paragraph Just is a promise that we would speak to all these people and we did speak to all these people and we probably want to revise the list of people we speak to a little bit but the the real rearing work is the first parag I don't know if you could hear my cat complaining about the rain outside but anyway um so um it seems that what we need to do in your step two is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "um throw this into a uh a GitHub or something and start to bash some of the text um Elliot I I guess you know a transport would be something that would have to go in there um I I didn't think we were ever going to do that but that's um up to discussion obviously yeah putting this into uh our organizations's uh repo as as something that we can do pro request at it sounds really good let's do that next okay and I guess this is the the paragraph that I'm jumping on right we do not deal with civilizations at all right we're modeling the structure and semantics being interchanged leaving the serialization to other standards right and I've had to explain that numerous times to uh in the last two years of SDF ASDF working group um and I don't have a problem with changing that I I just I I I I think we really have to be very conscious if we're doing that which is to say Elliott that maybe you're supposed to be an existing iot sdo somewhere else for your transport Transport Group I just don't happen to have one in my back pocket yeah I'm I'm not convinced uh it's as simple as as Michael puts it here um so uh I think we should have this discussion on on the Friday uh next week uh and uh we have uh half a dozen drafts in TI G and core uh that that kind of interact with the space and uh I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "think we we some of them are from 2019 um so um I think we we really need to to get these things in in a structure uh that we can start to decide what should be left to other sdos and uh uh what actually are those Essences that that we actually has have to provide as the IDF you yeah you know from my perspective the more that the iirf provides as a core the less the other standards organizations have to worry about redoing each other's work so which is a problem right and if they don't want to if they want to redo their each other's work that's one thing but if they're forced to redo it that's a different thing so making use of core for example is you know and and and um and not you know seore with with appropriate restful interfaces right it seems to me that that that's a win as a as a as a horizontal function and if we can provide other horizontal functionality as well will it will assist um manufacturers and developers yeah I think the hard part is figuring out what that cause uh because each one of us can can create the N plus first standard in this place uh but uh how how do we actually get the red star of of the 2016 uh meeting that start all this right right the red star yeah xkcd what is it 927 or something right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "yeah yes um okay so we're going to put this into we'll put the existing Charter which I think is in markdown in the data tracker into uh the the um working group chairs have a GitHub for the notes I think and we'll put it in there and post it on the list and make it clear where the the uh where poll requests should go to for that conversation um ideally I would hope that we will have um four or five serious you know edits um to the Charter waiting for our iners meeting um in two weeks right um I guess Nicholas and I will go through and I think that like you know we can change the draft we' P we've we're about to publish it there's some there's some business up here that we can just tweak I think without a lot of uh conversation um um you know making it more historical but um I think it's down here that that the objectives the new objectives need to be put in that that reasonable yes and we also can cut the the background stuff I mean our relationship to yeah is exactly didn't work out as much as uh we thought it might uh and uh yeah I'm still trugg struggling with call said there's an isg meeting tomorrow um so yeah the Yang is has been much more difficult than than we thought and um yeah we can probably so would you just strike this paragraph completely let let me read it and create"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "a request but probably yes okay and put the word Yang somewhere else just so it's clear we haven't forgotten it but we thought about it yeah it's not uh right now one of the ecosystems that that we are really focusing on oh sorry anybody else from the floor that was really the only topic for the today's meeting is really T talking about the charter and figuring out in this smaller group what what we we need to get ready for two weeks from now I don't remember when our meeting is sorry I have still a bit of a cold so I can't speak so much but no thanks a lot um I I was thinking that I think we sort of managed to collect all the kind of old kind of work we have talked about in the space um should we try to have a reasonable draft and ready by in two weeks time or whenever well what I think we should have is a series of of somewhat well reasoned poll requests that can be discussed yeah at that meeting I don't think we want to try to have a a fair comp um for that I don't think that benefits the the ITF or the working group um I can't find our meeting I thought we had a meeting Monday Monday night Monday 1730 to 18:30 in my uh not in my"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "schedule okay yeah uh okay yeah so we we have the the Friday meeting to do a little bit of work we we maybe can do a little bit of work at the hackathon but we then need to be prepared for the the SF uh meeting and uh yeah I I I agree that we don't want to present the new Charter as a Fed complete but I also think that we can remove all this sidetracks that will just waste our time during the discussion yeah I mean the Yang thing was put there to explain the relationship to Yang based on comments on the previous Charter maybe that doesn't you know make any sense anymore I okay we take right anything else sorry feel better okay well I have a work meeting in 11 or something minutes and yeah I have to be ready for it but okay so I'm going to disconnect if you want to stick around do that but I think done I'm also pretty done here so thank you all for for calling in and uh seeing you all in person or virtually in Prague in a week and a half times I hope see you then byebye byebye bye"
  }
]
