[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "one two three four no i don't do this three yes david i see three decks of slides in the tracker and no i see four decks of slides in the tracker and three decks in me taco so we appeared there's a refresh button at the top and that one shows four for me after i push to refresh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "david do you see the slides for not a ctp not 3.1 yes i do see them also i do after pressing the refresh button yeah they're there okay on the other hand me duck always just showing me a new deck is being shared so not getting anything out of that hang on let's see if that's working now no i still have problems let me go take out my corporate firewall see if that improves things so okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:19",
    "text": "so this will be tsvwg we will wait just a couple of minutes for people to enter the room as in other sessions we'll be taking the queue via me techo so if you want to speak please join the queue in me techo and we'll try and coordinate with remote participants as well as people in the room and take you in line when you are here and you wish to speak at the mic and when it comes your turn just go ahead and speak at the mic we currently have three of our four decks of slides loaded into mateco and we will start in just two minutes time we'll need a note taker as usual so we'd love to have a volunteer of a note taker so right i guess we'll start this is tsvwg welcome to vienna welcome if you're a remote participant welcome to our local participants the three chairs of tsvwg are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "myself gauri fergus where's eddie who's remote and david black who is also remote so this meeting like all the meetings that the ietf holds is covered by the ietf notewhile if you haven't seen this please read it if you have seen it please look at it again if you have any queries about ipr and what to discuss in front of other people our policy is quite simple and quite clear please just stick to the policy we need help in tsvwg with various things and of course to start a tsvwg meeting we need help with the notetaker at this point we pause and we wait for somebody to volunteer as a note taker sure it will okay this gets an honorable point and um we shall work harder to find someone else next time but thank you ever so much stewart stewart cheshire will take some notes and we will publish those at the end of the meeting if you're going to submit future work to this working group it's helpful to tell the chairs in advance it's helpful to write an internet draft probably essentially if you wish to present"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "draft name so we can flag it in the id in the id tracker we're using the meat echo mic here so this is your instructions for using meat echo if you haven't used it um simply press the hand button and we will see you in the queue here don't use the mic icon if you're actually in this room if you're using the qr code to log in take the blue sheets then you won't have a mic button on your app and that's a note that we do need people to use the qr code so we can take the blue sheet record of who's in attendance so if you haven't scanned the qr code please do we have a number of documents that were progressing through the working group and as ever document quality relies on reviews so if you'd like the documents that you care about to be reviewed please put in effort to review other documents review comments can be anything from people helping to improve particular texts to people raising up issues to be discussed a lack of reviews probably indicates a lack of care that the document is finally published so please do review and if you wanted something new to look at that's coming up towards a working group last call there's the udp options and dscp considerations work which are two things which probably could do with reviews soon so our achievements and accomplishments are we have published no rfc since ietf112 which is called a be kind to our area"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "director period we have a number queued up to go to our area director and we have one id still at the rfc editor which has been through review and will be published shortly which is 496 obese five ideas are with working group chairs and authors indicating to our ads that things are heading their way soon the ecnn cups um still has some text to be refined and then we'll receive a shepherd write up and be sent for publication we don't anticipate the need for further working group input here but we will send the changes proposed to the list so you can confirm that the document in its final state is ready for progression ecn for tunnels that use shim headers has already been through this process but is paired with the above draft then we have the three l4s ids um which wes might want to say a few words to if you're online wise sure so uh these are all post working group last call at the moment uh we've solicited on the mailing list for everyone who had commented and was expecting some changes to make sure that the changes match their expectations and we discussed at the interim meeting prior the solicitation of inputs on the shepard write-ups and i have a huge um number of responses on those which have been working through and i think there are only a couple of small points left to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "taken care of still so i think they're very close to being complete and i plan to wrap those up with the people i've been corresponding with uh on this week and get these to the area director uh in a week or so so thank you and if you have any questions about these particular drafts please um send them to the chairs and where's will be shepherding the process as they proceed towards publication and we have a number of remaining working group ids we have the l4s ops guidance which we'll be talking about nqb which we'll also be discussing udp options and dplp mtud for udp options three and four will be taken on friday dtls and sctp an sctp nut will be taken today assigning a new recommended dscp and how you might go about this and what might be the hurdles to getting a good dscp will be discussed on friday and multipath dccp will also be discussed on friday we did a milestone review and when we did these slides we had three milestones which were from may 2002 two or two two and september two or two two and milestones which were being revised for mpdccp dtls and the dstp considerations i think they're either approved or they're in the process of being approved so they will appear in the tracker if you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "look um various other milestones were reviewed we've decided as working group chairs we're going to try and keep our milestones up to date working groups have to decide what they're going to do with milestones whether they think they're superfluous or whether they think they're helpful we've decided that they're useful targets and therefore we're going to try and refresh them and keep them sensible and try and hope well try our best to facilitate getting the documents published before the milestone is due so the milestone is the date at which we expect this work to conclude beforehand is always good we have a number of liaisons and announcements i'm not aware of any new liaison updates david do you have anything to say under the air zones the wba liaison was responded to about a year ago we basically said try not to use quite so many dscps and suggest that wba and 3gpp get coordinated on this nothing has been heard since i think we can take this off future agendas okay and similarly the liaison requests on dtls was encouragement to produce the document to submit it to publication so that e3 gpp could reference it and the gsma relays on related to multi-path dccp and their expectations for that which we discussed previously so nothing new here there is a request for doing proposed work on a new ccid i'm bringing this up here just for the point of view of coordination and this is relates to the datagram congestion control protocol it's a proposal to add a ccid relating to bbr and at the moment bbr is an item of discussion as an algorithm in iccrg"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "so there is nothing that the transport working group here will do until the algorithm has been approved for progression in the ietf and when it has we can come and determine whether a ccid is appropriate useful and interesting for us to progress so if you're interested in this space go read the draft help facilitate the work and encourage the publication of a bbr spec and we will move forward in addition i want to mention that the hpcc plus plus draft has a uh has a an agenda slot in rtg wg routing working group next at next hour um yeah it's got some relationship to routing but it probably belongs over in transport and i think the suggestion is that uh iccrg ought to have a look at this uh in general it'd be good to think about what the transport area ought to be doing in the way of data center congestion control thanks david as ever data center and internet and not that far apart and we have to understand how to do congestion control involved so that's a good comment keep your eyes on that and we have our agenda the agenda asks what's currently put up looks like this if you're aware of it today is monday and we have three topics for discussion today relating to sctp and also the l4s ops draft and we'll take comments on the agenda if we have any if you wish to suggest amendments or corrections please do i'll also show the agenda for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "friday meeting the second slot for tsvwg will be on friday session two we'll look at these topics we don't currently have any other business scheduled and we do expect some discussion of the atss um atss work in 3gpp which is a work item in the side meeting probably following the friday session i will send announcements to the to the list with details about how to participate if you're interested any other agenda items or anything else that you feel you wish to mention on the chair slides then we've just the first of our topics for today maybe the only agenda bashing will be if when i go to the meet echo i don't find slides for michael's item 3.1 we will take michael at the end of the session rather than the beginning because that will give us time to work out how we're going to get slides to you we have michael's site here by magic so michael you'll be on first to talk about a ctp nut so this is a item which we're encouraging discussion on to figure out what the working group should do with a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "id that's been around for probably one of the longest on our list and it's one that we need to determine what the next steps are so michael go ahead and talk and at the end we'll ask what those next steps should be over to you michael okay thank you um can you go to the next slide yeah so this is this is about a draft which has been around for a long long time um we had working group last call um we got um there was a transition of the transport ads so we got two reviews from magnus and martin and right now we have an alternate proposal from ericsson which i provided a link to go to the next slide so to given a very high level view why we are talking about sctp and net it basically comes down that an an sctp endpoint can have multiple ip addresses but only a single port number so the partner my concept is shared between udp tcp dccp udp light and http but when it comes to this multi-homing thing it's only a single port number and that has the consequence that if you have multiple path towards your peer if you want to change the part number it has to be done consistently on all the paths so assuming that the middle boxes are not communicating to each other this means you can't translate the port number and this has then as a consequence what are you doing if you have local port number collisions so if you have two endpoints local endpoints inside the private networks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "which want to talk to the same appear and they choose the same port number udp or tcp based net would just remap the port number and that's fine and you can't do this for http so this is why to address this problem a long time ago we figured out that you can use the port numbers and the verification tag which is sap specific field um like a connection identifier and then you can handle these local port number collisions so that's why we thought it's a good or the authors thought it's a good idea to specify something um http specific next slide so this is basically a summary of the comments um we got from the leds i haven't marked with jd says some of the comments were given by both ads and some only by one but it doesn't matter um we should address them all or try to so the first one is that um ip fragmentation handling um at the net was an issue but i think we can deal with that like using the same terminology as done for udp or tcp so that's not very hard the [Music] the the question was how to control the net friendly behavior which is endpoints have to behave in a specific way when they are dealing with this net scenario and um the idea was was um just um if if one of the local addresses is a private one you do this or you have a socket option that's laid out we can make that clearer that's not that complicated um improved"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "multi-homing support was um was asked for this means we can have more even more examples um showing that um it was asked for that the nets support multiple external addresses so we were focusing on the simple case that only one external address is available but this actually means you have to have another field in the netbinding table then the remote address was taken out of the net binding table based on a research paper from [Music] australia and that simplified a lot but the question was please bring it back at least if we are not using this advanced version um the the sap specific version of net um it was asked if the processing of http packets can be simplified so that the net function does not have to power the packets and behave differently based on the chunk type when to add the state and whether an ad function should send packets at all because right now the document according to the document the net function will send packets and the last one is um the the notion of http associations has to be changed um because you must support multiple associations with the same port numbers and that means you have to distinguish them between you have to distinguish them using the verification tag um the issues here are have ordered in a specific way the more easily to address one are on the top of the more substantial ones are on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "the bottom so if you go to the next slide i have listed possible ways forward um the the first one is to stick with the with this method we are currently proposing um adding the entries to the net table will add complexity which is or i mean this is already not trivial so it adds complexity it gets complexibility but we can address issue two to five um the nuts the the the fragmentation stuff is just wording i mean you can't do anything wrong um we do have uh always uh the possibility that the endpoints do not support this additional mode so there is a fallback mechanism on basically just using the fallback mechanism taking out all the sctp specific things um is a possibility which would address issue two to seven um so that would mean don't use the verification tag don't disable restart um add the external remote addresses to the nut binding table and basically this comes down to a net function which is not http aware it's just outgoing packets establish a relation you don't change port numbers and that's it the drawback is that um in case of a local port number collisions you can't do anything um so the association can't be established so that's the well i would say um the the this especially this does not change the definition of the association in the endpoints so this seems to be addressing most of the issues the third alternative is to drop this document at"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "all and go with the ericsson proposal or the fourth way is to drop the work at all and say um if if we come up with a document which describes an almost http unaware not we don't have to do uh the work here these are the four options i see and i think it's the last slide right gauri it is the last slide and the fifth option is propose something else but do it now so okay yeah i mean yeah and my default option could be four or could be one or two i mean um literally we need people to come to the mic and say whether one or two is acceptable as a way forward we've been working as a working group on this for a while if anyone who's commented or anyone who has new insight wishes to comment on whether one or two is acceptable i guess if you don't care then my job's really easy we've had a lot of review it's been around for a lot of time we can go ahead but if you care to take up options one or two can you offer some comment that about this or agree to offer some comment on the list on the chat colin asked if there are um people having large-scale nets i'm not aware of that what i am aware of is an implementation done by the australian university for freebsd and based on that they did experiments and measurements on scalability they took out they suggested to take out the remote address from the nut binding table yeah that was the remote address discussion okay claudio would you like to say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "something i mean actually you need to speak up a little bit we can't hear you i'm sorry sorry it is it doesn't work i mean the the point here is the reason why i was trying to make some work here is that rather than a big scaling that may system may not exist yet the there is a problem and if the problem is that what we are in instantiating today in the cloud so being interested in different name phrasal and in different virtual machines here is network node that have acidity connectivity so if this was not existing before now the problem is actually and i i think that and since the networking the panel network using cloud is provided here now then we need to have a way forward being one of the ones here or maybe a brand new idea but it is a problem that is just opened up could i check if people in the room heard the comment it was very difficult on the stage to hear ah um can you hear me we could see you we could hear you but it's very [Music] even soft is not the right thing it could be the wrong mic is used if you if you're using your headset microphone but moving the boom closer to your mouth will probably help can you hear me now no it is still the same it is muffled so moving moving moving your microphone on your"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "headset close up to your mouth now not really no hello i think i have problems that seems to be an improvement no it's better better try again and speak up yeah and if you talk loudly we can hear you hello um but we missed the last comment i'm afraid okay you're coming through now please repeat what you were saying hello can you hear me now yes hear me now go ahead i can't hear you so your microphone is now working so sorry your microphone is now working and now you just need you to be able to hear us okay we think i think one of the comments he tried to make is that the use case they have in mind is something cloud based stuff sure and uh the document the the original intention for the document was not focusing on that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "so um yeah i mean michael my comment still is can people live with the option one presented here and can they live with option two uh the change of scenario yeah it was understood in the wicking group last call and it would be good to address more cases if it's possible and we need to decide on whether one or two are acceptable i see martin in the line and i'd like to hear from martin i'd also like to claudio afterwards and if we can't get an audio connection we can fold this up on a one-to-one basis that would be easy so go ahead martin yeah so martin duke google um so with ad hat on um i don't have a strong opinion here as long as we have you know good consensus in the group um as an individual i'd like to ask michael as the editor um if he has a preferred alternative of these four what his technical opinion is well my opinion is solution two addresses more issues so it's more work than solution one but um the issues brought up i mean i can't argue them and um so solution two addresses more of them if it makes um people happy in in a cloud environment we have to see at least you don't have to change the endpoints you have the risk of higher local port number collisions okay thank you thank you claudio do you want to have one last say or have you decided we'll follow up off list go ahead if you can either i can speak or i can listen to so it is very hard for me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "but i what i say is that we are running a prototype on option 3 and see what is possible to do with that it's not ready yet but hopefully it will be ready soon and i will share the result the idea is that we will work on the not support for linux and then possibly do some implementation based on user space http from vst all of this will be done in the open source thank you and we'll follow up on the list as well of course magnus please yeah magnus western my understanding of this problematic is that we have three hexes we have one which is can we support really support multi multi-homing well the other axis is how many concurrent sessions can we support and that's the third is then the output so to say is is how complex the solution is so you can support multi-homing but very few sessions with relatively low complexity or you can go and i i think it's a question of are we fine with maybe supporting multi-homing and how about supporting few sessions and it might actually be sufficient for the cloud uh deployment cases okay yeah and we'll take collin colin jenkins so colin jones um one i mean the issues in one seem sort of broken and i don't see how to solve them in any way but talking about so so i'm not in favor of that but to also my understanding of that uh and i could be confused i don't really see how that isn't true like any time you just use the ip address and have one-to-one mappings um you have problems that anybody can just scan through all the ports and now your your nat is totally ddos like it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "totally trivial to ddos anything with that type of scenario so i don't actually really see how two works i i think that as you dig into that um you know there's no way to really tell whether there was a conflict uh you have to somehow drop the packets that have a conflict otherwise you have two two different things trying to use the same port um i mean i've seen many people not in sctp but i've seen this tried in udp multiple times and i've never seen it work and i can't imagine why all the udp problems with that type of solution don't exactly map over to sctp as well so i'm having a really hard time understanding how to is a viable option okay um maybe one point um so right now the the the idea is that um state can be added only by internal hosts and if there is a port number collision the net box sends a packet back indicating that so um a node in the private network can can um can do a ddos by establishing a lot of state yes that's true um if that if that is not a ddos but by chance and the local endpoint is not relying on that particular port it can it gets a notification from the middle box that this port is taken and it can choose a different form and reconnect but a local node can do adidas yes thank you right we're going to have to decide one of these ways forward and we're going to have to decide shortly after this meeting there is obviously time to discuss on list and obviously time to get people together to find their opinions but we do have to make a decision because the working groups have the document for a long time so i'd encourage people to try and follow up on what they've just said at the mic or what they think on the list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "if you're in any doubt please forward to the chairs and we will try and help to understand the positions and then we will call out a possible way forward for the working group thank you for the talk we'll take the next presentation it was you and we have oh i have to press share okay so magnus on dtls over http go ahead minus yes so let's see just trying to eat the mica um so i'm uh magnus westland um my co-author is claudio for theory and john matson um next slide so we've been working on this draft and uh i mean the highest point is here we're trying to address the user message limit of detail assist the paper rfc 623 uh we have this communication with gdp etcetera they have a problem in the several of their ram protocols since last meeting we have received some feedback from liang we also hadn't contracted out an implementation of the specification we got some feedback we have implemented some of these so far and it continues and i have to remind you that there's two ipr declarations from ericsson on this document next slide so this update for this towards this meeting was fairly significant not in solution space but also a lot of details clarifications etc about solving issues we clarified about the theoretical message length limitations and we're saying that basically up to 2.2 to the power 64 minus one byte is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "is is i mean you won't really limit the support of or say the need for supporting pointers etc um but that's the potential for a message size which i think is reasonable we also look into some of these ssb api limitations might limit the sender further but shouldn't be an issue for a receiver so a sender that knows he can deal with or ensure that you have a stack that matches that um we also looked into stream usage update there's this is minor in some sense but actually most main point here is detail ssdp before details process the message doesn't know what's incoming if that's user data or a detailer's message that has some impact anyway of how you can send this so we thought you were be able to really relax the limitation of how it's ending and it's up to the sender so to say to send on whatever stream they want to because it's anyway doesn't matter until the detailer stack process the message uh we also looked into shutdown procedures clarifying those we have a new section on http api considerations trying to note what kind of special functionality you might need on the satb stack to support as well and the number of clarifications on various things so it's a fairly large update if you looked at the draft and the diff so next slide so i want to remind you about what we're really addressing in this draft compared to rfc 683 so it's the message message length we also have the sap association handshake now negotiates to support of details or sdp we're trying to minimize the impact on ulp protocol basically having is so if what you can support in sctp we can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "basically support over data ssdp also and it's slightly wider than what 683 or the number of features is that's slightly easier to use or say no limits um addressing this uh i want to note i mean that 683 per its original publication it was using details 1.0 had less limitation and what it has now since rc 8996 forced details upgrade to 1.2 because for example to support a long-lived sap association details 1.2 has the renegotiation security issues which has to do with there are some challenges there are implementing security there have been some attacks etc so people has a tendency to turn it off so availability prospects and some challenge implementations it also limits the number of negotiations to 65k and for detail is 1.3 there is no renegotiation longer with mutual authentication the only thing you can do is a key update on and that doesn't update the mast secret which means that you don't re-key sstp off either so your session length is now much more limited due to basically when you're running out of stp health key usages you have to terminate the session restart and you will not have any forward secrecy during that re any updates you do for details 1.3 so that's basically some of these challenges here and and then we also have the sntp auth i mean uh hmac show one is is is aging you probably want something newer for the future so um but yeah so let's go on so that being some discussion on the main list but from my perspective i think there's two realistic ways forward obsoleting rfc 683 when publishing draft src"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "which would have been the default publishing as an alternative rfc to 1683 without obsoleting is another and that would allow people to update 683 and if etc if they want to do something try to do something there which doesn't infringe the ipr um or see what you can do um so i mean 683 has limited applicability and has its security issues so i think something maybe needs to be done anyway but it's uh so yeah i think we can go into some discussion i think michael had a slightly different view of this so i'd like to take discussion on this side if we can yeah and as a chair i can say that we would be okay if the working group decides to not obsolete 68 686083 using this draft we can make that decision later if we wish to as a working group so it is a possibility so um what do people think about the options and what do people want to say in response to this particular proposal for a way forward anybody got any questions or comments michael go ahead michael yeah i'm clicking i am um i i i answer to the to the mailing list so from a technical point of view i think rc 6083 needs to be updated um i'm not arguing on any technical things right now my point is that in my view dtls for http is something like tls for tcp or dtls for udp so um replacing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "an rc which which is which you can implement in open source and which you can use by a document proposed by a company enforcing its own ipr seems to me suboptimal i mean up to now we have every everything we did in http was backed up by open source and at least when it came to working group last call we had some implementations and this is not possible here so [Music] that's why i'm not arguing technically but the ipr stuff hold by the company working on this document is something which i'm not in favor of no understood um from my perspective i always want to ensure that we're i would say that we then in that case if you're willing to maybe potentially drive some alternatives here i would go with then b so we or at least two word speed is for no so we don't get stuck in a situation where no progress at all is made because i mean we're doing this work to ensure that gdp has a reference for something that needs to resolve uh and and and ending up where we have no progress and and just spend a lot of time working on it that's not productive at all so i wanted some direction at least that enables us or 3d people to make progress here in the end and i i i noticed that you might did suggest that this should be taken to gdp but that also doesn't feel particularly well either so i i see but i mean if we now decide that this goes as an alternative um and it's not updating rfc 6083 um i think 6083 needs an update so this would mean bringing up another document at the ietf"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "um which doubles the load and i'm so i'm i mean and the other point is why should anyone i mean normally things are brought to the ietf to work on it in a community which improves the document quality and for me a company coming to the ietf wanting to enforce its its ipr in a document just means if if i'm working for a competitor i would just shut up and don't say anything hope that there are issues in the document and once the document has been published file iprs or even before that file ipr song fixing this so but i mean just leaving two documents in parallel there and not saying anything is also not i mean this helps create gpp but um yeah but so i mean my question to you michael are you willing to try to do something about finding an alternative here because i mean if if no one is either doing an alternative then we're at like some type of impasse and it doesn't make any progress either so i would be willing on on what i would i mean i would be willing to work on an update on 6083 that's why i started to to i'll be a co-author of your document but um and if people are interested in it i'm happy to do so but um if no one else is interested then it's done go ahead do whatever you want i think i i can comment at this point so um i will of course um offer the opportunity for a ad to comment if he wishes but my understanding of what we've talked about here is that the working group could decide not to update um six or eight three by obsoleting it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "so we we continue this work is is a proposal that's on the table that inevitably might mean that two further things could happen another id could emerge which updates six or eight three or by the time that this what we're considering has reached fruition we decide that 6083 should finally be obsoleted anyway because the ipr issues have been either gone away or have been encountered or are well known whatever the outcome so there is a way to proceed here which means that we continue the work item without doing the update with the penalty that we may have to publish another rfc either to obsolete 6083 or to update it as a parallel spec and i'm asking the working group and we'll do via the mailing list whether that is an acceptable way forward does my id wish to say anything at this point about creating two parallel specs or does he wait want to wait and see what the working group says ah i i will confess to not having again a terribly strong opinion here um it is it is a problem if we're in a situation where you know the bsd implementation which thinks the relatively important one cannot follow the spec so um i i i i'm initially like fairly sympathetic to the way you describe the story that that may be sticking this starting with b um i mean i i don't hear anyone stepping up really to write the the you know the the open source ipr free version of this um so if if if if we want to so it sounds to me like the unless the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "ip unless the ipr rights are you know loose enough to to allow this kind of work i it seems to me the outcome will be that you have 60 83 still functional and then a then a alternative to 60 80 you know alternative improvement to 6083 that will be used by some implementations and and i i i don't maybe necessarily understand exactly what the what the interoperability implications of that are and and if magnus can answer that that would be interesting but um it seemed inevitably we're driving in that direction yeah and we may have to update 6083 anyway for security reasons because the um the security part of the spec changes so things security algorithms will be obsoleted so that may have to be maintained as a separate document if we decide to go along that path but i guess we acknowledge this by going along this path now and given that 3gpp needs this um i don't think like doing nothing doesn't strike me as a alternative either so i know magnus can you speak at all to the interrupt the interoperability issues of a 6083 and this so i mean together the current draft is of the new proposal is very clear on when you're negotiating the handshake using the uh this uh defined method for detecting it the 683 you basically you have no clear indicator that you're going to do 683 unless you you see it's sctp off and then there's a detailed handshake that's how you detect that it's happening and and this other one you're doing the handshake in the association handshake you will detect okay i want to do this so you know that this is and and if future proposal could do the same but with the different identifiers you could negotiate which you are doing so i think there's at least power existence is not an issue okay excellent so then um if i understand correctly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "if you had a 60-83 endpoint um well actually okay so let me back up so with your draft if you had an employee supporting your draft and it and try they would not see this option from the pier and so it would recognize what was going on with the 6083 endpoint it will see dtls payloads um and think that it is doing 6083 when it's actually doing what your draft is doing no because so it's actually defined how you fall back to 60 to 3 behavior from from from from our specified behavior and it's it's you're never going to end up there unless you have a policy for willingly allowing it because it's otherwise it will be security risk so okay you will yeah all right i mean it sounds like you've got an approach and we can we can wordsmith it but that's good um uh yeah i mean i think ideally there would be some sort of minimal update to 6083. again um uh it doesn't i don't it doesn't strike me as there being enormous amount of energy to do so um so it would be nice to appear be in a place where we can live without one right i think that's a a fair thing and if that emerges in the future that can be always going to do maintenance of aspects so this is okay as well okay fine thanks this proposal will be taken to the list and i'd happily work with the people who've spoken here just to make sure that the right proposal words are written on when we send it to the mailing list yeah okay how are we doing on time we're a bit short um yeah let's skip this then so and there are additional slides shall we yeah there was in time permits to discuss an issue but it's actually so yeah um i think people can read those uh i will post to the main list about the issues or other things when we work with it so we we have a few smaller there's one thing with the first of those is around details 1.2 is a bit annoying but i think we probably have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "we'll have to figure it something out but yeah okay thank you yeah please continue to discuss on the list woo can we take one more talk short no you're asking me yeah i'm asking you because you're in the room which how do we proceed on the lfs ops draft in the few minutes we have remaining even if we don't don't do the status review on it yeah let's just skip ahead to the question and have some discussion yes please if there's room for the next session we can go from there yeah we'll find room to discuss properly but let's raise it so the you you have the l4s ops as the editing document you want to cut straight to the question and give us a very quick run through in one minute to where we are are you online sure uh yep i'm online um yes let's get forward yeah keep keep going um keep going um one there's one to do um left in the draft um and so i'll be asking for input from the working group on how to um address that uh that open question um in the next slide is the um so no no updates to draft since the last ietf um i do have a work in progress draft o3 at this point only has some typo fixes some misspellings etc um uh certainly new contributions would be accepted if there are uh additional uh materials that need to be covered in the draft but i've not um heard any contributions or comments of that nature since the last idea"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "so the original plan for this document was for it to remain a draft during the l4s experiment and the question here is is that still the desired path forward um or should we be moving towards uh finishing this and publishing as an rfc i'll give it to comments all right i'll do it myself i'll insert myself in the mic um i would suggest that it would benefit those who want to work with l4s to declare victory on this move it forward as an rfc shortly after or with the alpharest drafts and then immediately open a bisdraft uh to capture things we learned dirt learned during the alpha price experiment um as your slides show the draft is pretty much stable i don't think there's any major contributions and i think getting it out a bit more broadly is probably a good thing for all concerned okay any other comments yeah martin duke google um during the l4s experiment is an interesting phrasing to me like like how long is that at least one itf cycle well that's that's no time in itf time um i would just i i have no i no no idea martin but i would suggest having a draft open to collect lessons learned as people learn them would be a good thing and then sometime the future we get to we we get to have this slide on the best draft fair enough i mean the question is directed more to greg than to david's proposal um because i mean like you know in theory the air force experience continues until we publish ps which seems like too long um uh like i i don't know i mean i guess my question would be to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "what extent are operators like either already running this or or like poised to start like tomorrow um like what are we expecting like very quick operational experience to to emerge in in like the next few months or is it gonna be years and years before we have additional learnings to improve this document i would anticipate it's um on the order of small numbers of years before we have significant deployment and and operational experience um not not weeks or short numbers of months okay well then as an individual um i would say that uh that that answer tells me that maybe david's solution is a good one um but i'll give i know we're short on time so okay thanks mirrors in the queue yeah just a very quick plus one to publish it right now okay i mean the options we have in the working group to consider are whether we freeze the document and we hold it because we think we're going to immediately update it in the short number of its cycles or we opt to publish so this is what greg's raising and this is what we'd like feedback from we've heard a few comments here we will of course ask on the list to see if there are any further comments but we've heard the comments thank you ever so much for contributing thank you for coming to this meeting and we will continue on friday with a much longer slot and do come and join us on friday please thank you [Music] uh"
  }
]
