[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "hello all uh welcome to teas at ietf ietf112 virtual i'm blue burger we have with us uh vishnu pavon biram co-chair as well as our secretary our news secretary luis contreras we really appreciate luis um being willing to serve as secretary and uh continue on the tradition that matt laid out of uh really being very helpful uh behind the scenes so uh welcome luis pavan has already put the link into uh for hedgedock uh if you could join us there we really appreciate it it's both where we do collaborative minute taking and also gives you the link to all the materials and the slides that we're going to go through today next as always we start off our meetings by going over our policies procedures for how we operate at the ietf this is all covered under the note well and we have a set of bcps of documents that cover [Music] how we operate and notably related to contributions to the ietf intellectual property and next slide and a piece that uh that the isg has asked us to really highlight it was on the previous slide as we always mention it but really want to highlight uh code of conduct and that it's um uh we've had a very a long-standing document long-standing practice for how we should treat each other with respect and courtesy and be professional um and it's you know it's okay to have uh heated arguments but keep it technical and and keep it on on the uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "topic and the isg is asked to highlight this uh you've seen discussions on the ietf list so you know it's an important topic next um you're on media echo right now so you have found us thank you for joining us today and um our blue sheets are automatic uh we use the chat or jabber for um a little bit of side comments but if you would like to say something at the mic and you're unable to come to the mic yourself please just put at mike into the jabber and someone will read it out and we are using medieco's integrated queue control i mentioned earlier hedge dock code emd whatever it's being called today um for uh note taking and please joining us there uh the link in the chat is the right link i think the rank link here might be wrong but and all of our material is online next we have a fairly [Music] long agenda but unlike normal we actually have time that's available for discussion normally we have these ridiculously packed section we asked for some extra time we got it so we have a little more time for discussion um it is possible that the um the network slices discussion will continue past its allotted time in which case um we will still take the half hour break but we will just can pick up the conversation at the start um right after the break so that is that number four might extend into number five if necessary will be also a little looser on time than we have been in the past although we still will put up the timer as usual um one change here is on slot nine uh reza will be um presenting versus shusang who was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "originally listed next so this is our usual discussion about working remote i think everyone is really familiar with that we are working remote and continue to do so um that uh the mail list is how the working group judges consensus uh these discussions are very important that we're having right now our periodic informal meetings as well as interims are hugely important but it's really we gauge consensus on the list and it's important when we're trying to basically close down on a topic to show that we're done with it it's also equally important when we start new discussions so if you have a new idea or a new document that you want to get in front of the group the mail list is the right place to introduce it publish your document send some intro uh an intro summary to the list and try to generate some discussion there that's it's just as important to do that at the beginning as it is at the end our online meetings continue it seems that for the next meeting we have hope of maybe doing um a mixed meeting of online and uh in person we'll see what happens um that has not been announced yet but stay tuned uh but the uh we have the the ability to do um informal as well as interim meetings if you would like a periodic webex as some groups have done just ask the chairs and we'll set it up for slow just remind us hopefully our secretary that edition of the secretary will make that a little bit smoother we also can do interims and meet echo is now available on interim said it's great for that next as a reminder we have an ipr disclosure process to check to sort of um help us in that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "process we referred back to and well where we ask everyone to disclose any ipr that their intellectual property that they are um they know about in work that they are contributing on and um we pull both um at the beginning of the process on adoption as well as um [Music] at the last call step and you see we just started one today uh as you add new authors we think it's really important to um get a polled response from that person or even an unsolicited response from that person uh this is only applies to working group documents and if you are an author or an editor and you add someone we really ask you to have that person make an explicit statement on the list at the time they are added um we did have a surprise ipr ipr disclosure on someone who was added and didn't disclose and and you know it's sort of not fair to the working group to have such a late itr dysfunction next so what's new with our documents um we have no new rfcs and nothing in the editor queue we'll have to try to speed up and get some new things in there uh we do have a batch of um documents that are headed to last call so you know i think that we're gonna fill the queue again um not sure why that formatting came out strange but we have one document in publication requested i believe that is with our a d there was an update issued um so it was with the authors but i think it's now back with the aed and we've had one recent adoption next there was one liaison received um excuse me uh it's from gsma i don't know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "if that's actually a formal liaison or a communication tsma is part of 3gpp so i'm not i'll defer to the iab and what their liaison or communication relationship is but we do have one um new white paper available uh please review it um if we uh we have some working group documents in this area now on itf network slicing it may be time to send a response and so if you're interested as always we're contribution driven please send a proposal that's interesting to the lust that should be to the list and we'll discuss it and go from there next that might be my final slide i don't remember come on yeah that was the final slide okay great um if you have any questions come to the queue if not we'll proceed with pavan giving the detailed draft steps okay um good morning good afternoon good evening um i'm pawan biram your other coacher uh before i start with the working group document status let me thank our new secretary lewis for proactively collating the status reports and compiling the slide deck we there are 22 working group documents that are listed here uh five of those colored in blue or on the agenda today um we have one document um the signaling extension staff for some pivot for which we put in a publication request a while back lou went over the status of that in the previous text so it's not covered here so that leaves us with 16 documents the status for each of those is covered in this deck"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "i don't intend to walk through each and every one of those here um i will um however double click on a select view and dwell on them a little bit uh for the rest of them you can use your own page go through the slides and the reports that are sent out to the list and ask questions if any so let me jump to slide six first so this is uh the enhanced vpn framework document a new revision for this was published in late october um there is uh some new text describing in detail the applicability of enhanced vpn to network slicing um as part of the next steps the authors have indicated that they would like to sort out the relationship between ns vpn and itf network slice from the chairs point of view this is a topic that has been discussed on the list before and as noted in the ietf network slices framework document um enhanced vpn does offer one solution approach to realize idf network slices uh as noted in that document and also on the list it is not the only solution approach for realizing idf network slices so if there is um a specific question that the authors are looking to get answer for the from the working group uh regarding this relationship um uh please do initiate a thread on this on the mailing list like lou mentioned we also do have some time towards the end of the sec second session today set aside for open discussion so the authors could possibly leverage some amount of that time for discussing this let me jump to slide 8. this is the pc cc use cases document as stated in the previous meeting the chairs have decided to take this to last call"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "um it seems like there are still a couple of items pending uh the authors have indicated that they would be wrapping this up soon so please do review this in anticipation of last call um this is uh the 3272 bis document a new revision for this was published uh yesterday the ada's notes suggest that there are still a couple of pending items there is still this open question on whether the scope needs to change from overview and principles of internet traffic engineering to overview and principles of traffic engineering um as adrian says here there has been silence on this topic so if anyone wishes to chime in or help adrian out with suggested changes please do come forward and help out this is a large document could definitely use some thorough reviews from the working group um adrian do you have anything else to add to this uh no thank you as you noticed i i published uh i posted a a an update for the keeper live and to pick up uh one of med's comments and this is just sitting in my pile of to do things okay thanks um next up is the sf aware topology young model document the authors have said that they are almost done with this they have requested a young doctor's review for this we did initiate the review yesterday hopefully that will get done in the next few weeks um let me jump to uh i think that's slide 17. so this is the base t young document the authors have requested working glass call the initial plan was to progress this document and three other documents the rsvp young document the rsvp young"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "and the key mpls young document together but there are still some minor issues open against the other three so the plan is to initiate the working group last call process for this document first and let the other three follow soon the ipr for this just got started um so please do review all these documents in anticipation of the last call um so those are the items that we wanted to cover as part of this deck um there are any on on that document one of the authors is mail is bouncing so co-authors um please check that all the authors addresses are right and contributor addresses are right um thank you acknowledged um so yeah if there are any questions on the status of the documents that i went over or uh or for any other working group document you can post that question now or or we could use the discussion time later i don't see anybody jumping onto the mic so i can we can proceed to the next presentation i believe that's true yeah thanks bubble give me one second correct so yeah thanks uh hi everyone i'll be discussing an update to a bunch of yang models that i'm the editor on so next slide please so the set of models that we have today is the vn model the two models which are telemetry related which augments the idft and itfvn with telemetry details and then we have a set of models which are service mapping models which map uh the services uh the vpn services and the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "models so let's go update one by one next slide we will focus on vn model next slide so an update to what is vn model vn model is basically our yang model for vn operations it is the customer view of the virtual network uh it is an abstraction over the t topology and the t tunnel model it has a tight coupling with those models it uses the connectivity matrix to uh to describe how the vm interact that is how the various vn members and the access points uh come together to form the vm so the update in the latest model uh the recent changes next slide let me go through them uh so the main change was there was a request to uh like you know clean up our names i think this was common in bunch of tea models so as uh as the same operation was done for itfte and and other models we also take look it up for the vm model and we have resolved the naming issue thanks to tom patch and other people who have pointed out this issue the another major update is we have added an empty container for underlay as i was mentioning earlier currently we have a quite a tight coupling with te topology model so we have added this empty container underlay in a hope that any future update can be made very easily a future augmentation can be done for this model to add things which cannot be covered by the topology model for example if you want to add details about sr policy etc that can be an augmentation of this model and the place to augment that detail would be this empty container called underlay so this is uh another update that we have done and discussing one way to handle the discussion that we had when last this was presented that how do we handle this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "issue so right now to keep the scope of the this draft limited uh we thought that this could be a good approach that we handle what is already published let's let's finish this and allow a way for this to be augmented in a future in a very clear way so have an empty container for now which can be augmented by a future model we updated a description for v and compute status we we were reusing this from the t types but it was not uh a one-to-one map there was little bit description needs to be added that how a t compute is little different from vm compute so we have added that though we are still reusing it but we have added a description saying how we expect this to be used in the vm model uh there was an update there was a request to add cos as an additional constraint we have added that and then there was a major update with respect to the json example since the topology model had quite a bit of change uh during the last few cycle and we were still using the json example which was written based on an older version of the t topology model so based on that change there was a pretty big update on the json example that is there in the document so these covers all the recent changes that were made uh in the last couple of updates next slide we wanted to ask the working group are these changes okay uh do people have any other open issues and we believe that if once these are handled maybe we can consider this document in pipeline for working group last call the young doctor review was done some time back on version 10. uh we can see if we need to repeat that again anyway it will be done as a part of the last call process anyways so this is my status thank you uh we have we have lou in the queue um i i looked at the cos change and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "there's no context for it so it's not immediately clear how you expect it to be used so i think there's needs to be a little more language around it that's it so it's called cos but uh i i thought i saw you use the dst class type is that is that what is being done here it's a fee you're just picking uh the dst class type zero to seven value between zero seven is that what is being done yes okay yeah i'm using the t types class itself not defining anything new right so i think some description of how you expect this to be used is needed yeah that i think that makes sense i will i will take in fact help from kenichi itself since it's coming a requirement from an operator so the best is like you know he himself can describe how we expect this to be used yeah just drop it in the description and we'll be good yeah thank you thank you yeah the use of empty container for something um to make it future proof that's interesting like we do need people to review and see if that is the right approach sure okay so i think let's move on to the next uh models so next we have telemetry uh yang model next slide please uh in this model we basically have the performance monitoring parameters we also have something what we call as a scaling intent mechanism where we tell at what time the capacity for our vn or tunnels can be increased and by how much so basically this model allows any customer to subscribe to various monitor monitoring performance parameters for a particular tunnel or a vm and also to define the uh the scaling intent so the update in this model uh next slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "uh basically we handle comments from adrian and greg thank you for those uh the major update was we removed the term kpi uh i think it was i agreed that it was not so useful we let's call it telemetry model and keep it simple uh we updated the figures to depict the model relationship there was still some confusion that are we redefining things or are we reusing between the two models so we have updated that description so that the readers is well aware of our intent with respect to the relationship between the models we added an example for how the scaling would be done with help of xml example and as usual adrian gave a lot of useful suggestions and nits and i hope all those have been handled we have comments from greg regarding not to use the word proactive uh when we are talking about re-optimization we had a back-and-forth discussion on the list but i think it's better to avoid the term in so we have removed the pro the word proactive and i think we have anyway described how the model is tend to be used without without using the term proactive there was also a comment whether how it links with other work such as one which is happening in ops area related to vpn service performance measurement so we have added that how we assume that like no these two work can work together that you can have a vpn overlay pm as well as you can have uh traffic engineering uh telemetry data and how both of them can be reused uh used together and correlated when looking for fault etc we have also updated the security consideration which was kind of lacking so that's all the update for this model there was one comment from adrian which i think uh which is in the next step next slide uh that is since we are talking about scaling"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "intent and there is some overlap with the work that's happening in ops area so there should be like you know notification sent to them so our query was that should we send it as authors or is it better if it goes from chairs yeah we yeah we can definitely um send it uh there is i mean we haven't done a young doctor's review for this document yet right yes so i think we can initiate that review and as as part of that also take care of reviews from other working groups uh i think the main point with op series i think this intent word is also like today in the ops area again this discussion was happening and earlier also we have the ad being this discussion whether the terminology map so i think just a quick idea of what we are doing uh it's not just the modeling part but the terminology that might be a good input to get from the ops area as well so keep in mind the the i want to call it the nib doctor sorry yang doctor review includes the 80s in the ops area so they they can chime in whether we'll need a broader review okay that makes sense um tariq does this telemetry model cover the uh the service uh telemetry as well as the transport underlay or is it just the transport it's just the transport just the te and vn uh and as as i was mentioning that it's in fact the vpn service young model where we expect the service telemetry to be there as well as like network slicing for example yeah so network slicing is not covered in this okay thanks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:05",
    "text": "okay so uh the final draft for me the t service mapping model now this model uh basically maps the services and the networks various l3 sm l2 sm and even l1 csm and also the network models like l3m and l2nm how do they map with the te infrastructure so mapping to t toppo e tunnel uh vn etc so all of this uh is handled in this model uh idea of this model is so that we could have a seamless service operations and understand how the service is being run on our underlay t network and what is the relationship between the two this allows us to do monitoring and diagnostic much much better and it also supports various type different types of map types that is what is the relationship between the service and pe there could be multiple tight coupling or it could be loose so those different map types are supported in this model so the recent changes in the next slide the recent changes uh because there were inputs from adrian oscar kenichi and based on that what we have done is we have added a clear section on what is the purpose of this service mapping so and where we intend this to be used one thing that we did clarify that this will be useful for an outside entity only if the outside entity also understand for instance vn and tunnel otherwise this model would be more for internal purposes for the network itself mostly for diagnostic and monitoring purposes and not might not be exposed to the outside world so both of these are valid approaches like if the t topology and p tunnels are exposed then uh this mapping could be useful by an external system"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "otherwise it's only for internal purposes there were bunch of things which were marked as open issues uh and thanks for adrian for pushing us and giving us good solutions on how to handle it so we have kind of marked that scheduling is not out uh not part of this draft but how it could be handled the those texts has been added uh one more open issue was how do we map traffic onto this particular services and our t infrastructure so we have said that this is out of scope there is some discussion we know that this is happening uh in other young model one early attempt that we did also exist with respect to this document which i've mentioned this is t traffic yang which tries to say that how we can maybe use acl and like even flow spec kind of information uh to uh to do this is again very early work but anyway from the scope of this document we are saying it is out of scope somewhere somewhere else this needs to be handled so if there is an interest in this area and like you know please reach out to me as well uh next steps in the next slide uh itf network slice is out of scope so we wanted to check whether that's a good approach do we need to add it as one of the other possible service types like if we are already handling l3 sml and others should we also map itf networks slice to te resources is this the right way to do it or should something else is needed so this is an open question to the working group if people have thoughts on it please tell us now or on the list and one more request was that if you can add more examples of how this model could be used in various different scenarios especially covering all the section that we added about purpose of this document so if we can add different scenarios"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "where this model could be used so we are planning to add a little bit more examples in this document so those are the two next steps and if people have any other open issues or thought on the itf network slice part please let us so on the network slice part i think we can proceed without it and then we can always if necessary augment the model and that way we don't have to hold up this document which is hopefully getting pretty mature at this point and if we tried to bring in slicing that i think that would cause a large delay in this as far as i can tell there's no reason why it can't just be done as a standalone document an augment if we do need to augment um i think that's our perspective from the chair outside if anyone wants to give an alternate view now would be a good time dhruv does that do you think that works for the authors uh yeah let me just discuss with my author set as well and see what they feel we are dependent on couple of models still like l1 csm uh is one of them there is sr policy so uh though our t part uh is going well and uh those models are all like i t f t e i t f t top are all progressing but on the other side we have progress on l3 nm uh l2 nm is also progressing so i think l1 csm and sr policy those are the two models which we are dependent on so we might have a little bit more time uh while this document would be ready to publish in rfc but those changes are not likely to change the content of this document correct yeah that's true well if we sat in miss ref it wouldn't be a big deal we could just wait until those are go through the process yeah okay uh yeah i think i think if we could wrap this up and you know start going"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "through the publication process uh it would be better to do that than to try to hold it indefinitely or hold it much longer i also had a comment on the prior slide so um you've added two very small sections on things that are out of scope um i i found those to be really um not clear what you're saying and the nice thing is though is they're out of scope and um you know many documents just are silent on things that are out of scope so would you be opposed just to dropping those two sections um or do you think we at paragraphs i'm sorry not sections paragraphs which just came in the last version uh or do you think we really have to state that it's explicitly out of scope i think uh the main reason why was there these were the questions that were asked to the authors uh and that's why we were maintaining them as an open issues and people had this idea that oh without these things handled uh is this mapping useful uh so mainly because of that we wanted to give it a little bit more importance i think the text came from adrian if i'm not uh wrong at least related to scheduling so i can discuss with adrian and post it to the working group and see what the working group thinks whether we need to keep it or remove it well here's your h and eq yeah yeah so my my question was really just to the authors to say have you deliberately left this out uh and it's fine in my opinion that they've deliberately left it out and their answer uh closed that for me uh you might wonder what will happen when the next person reviews the document and and whether having this paragraph will just even reduce it to a sentence would help the reviewer the next reviewer not also ask the question but it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "it's pretty unimportant to them yeah and i'm worried about declaring things out of scope when someone comes along and wants to augment the document that someone will use that statement about it being out of scope as saying that you can't augment the document and i don't think that's what's intended here um and i i just find that you know unless it's it really seems that something should be in the scope of the document it's better just to be silent on it in this case in fact we say that in future augmentation you should do that so i think let's report this so what's the point and actually the next paragraph is really the one i think is problematic but um i i think in practice it's better just to be quiet on things that are out of scope if you'd like you know i think talking it to your authors about the uh other paragraph and whether or not you you're comfortable just being quiet there um you know adding one sentence um you know currently on out of scope you know and then you say although they could use their own scheduling mechanism i don't think this is adding i think it's opening a door that's not really clear i i really don't think the other scope statements are adding anything but i'm also happy to take that as a uh you know as a contributor position um as chair uh definitely think it's bad practice to put out a scope statements unless you really need to um but as uh you know for these two pic two particular ones i'm happy to take it to the list and pursue it as a contributor that's all from my side thank you thanks drew adrian we're just waiting for oh here we go set aside so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "uh you're gonna fly are you rather than me all right um so so flip back a slide please um i just want to to start do you prefer to try i don't mind i don't yeah um i i um just want to start by thanking everyone that's been involved because although it's my name on the front page it's not really my work so much so this is all the people who were in the design team who wrote the foundation documents the people that came along to the interim meeting and discussed it uh and many people who've contributed on the mailing list to move the work forward so next slide what we have in uh the fairly recently published uh 05 is uh an attempt to resolve the uh open issues that were discussed at the interim uh and had uh text proposals on the table and so um i run through these uh the first one was connectivity matrices uh and what we've done here is clarify the definition of the four basic connectivity matrices and added a new matrix for any to any connectivity and the intention here is to enable every type of um use case that people have been suggesting chiefly operators um the general case is based on a sort of tunnel connectivity but we also wanted to support the vpn type service and that's what brings in any to any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "which is not a tunnel connectivity it's effectively a rootable full mesh so a little bit of discussion on that on the next slide on how we can handle every type of service does any to any make multi-point to multi-point and multi-point to point unnecessary and clearance new question on slos in p2mp before we get to that the related issue was the question of slos and sl's per sender stroke receiver and that's closely tied so let's go to the next slide so here are the types of connectivity matrix that we've got defined and i think that point to point is pretty straightforward it's um a pair of ces with the traffic going from one to the other it behaves like a private wire or a tunnel and the slos and sles are applied at the sender and so they're implicitly the same slos and sles at the receiver it would be very odd if they weren't uh the bi-directional version of that is really just a pairing and there's no implication of co-rooted or not co-rooted although i guess you could define an sle to to force that there are two sets of slos uh each applying to one of the ces as its sender so point to multipoint it just extends that really it's a single sender and multiple receivers and it behaves like a point to multi-point tunnel or a multi-access vlan"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "segment there is one set of slos and sles that apply at the sender and therefore implicitly at all receivers because all the traffic is going from the one sender to all the receivers so far so good then we get the multi-point to point um which is something that we've sort of seen in a um an ldp sense and then got added to rsvpte for for mpls um and what you have here is that all traffic that is injected at any sending cd is received by the single receiver so you could model this as a set of point-to-point connections with a common receiver uh each sending ce as it has its own set of slos and sles so um it's not a given that each sender on this matrix has the same uh traffic requirements and the implicit slos and sles for the receiving ce really are a combination of these sending slos and sles otherwise you wouldn't get all the traffic delivered so multi-point to multi-point is um is a bit ugly i i see turret in the queue but i'll finish the slide and then we'll come back um multi-point to multiple it's a little bit ugly in a tunnel sort of sense there are uh nces uh that can send traffic and that anything they send is delivered to all of the other ces each sending ce has its own set of slos and sles and the combination of those gives the implicit slos and sles for all of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "receivers uh and then we hit the any to any and and this is different this is not tunnel-like here you have a set of ces and they may send to any of the other ces anyone or any set so they can support point-to-point and multicast um and it's not unlike the the multi-point to multi-point it isn't the case that a sender's traffic is delivered to all receivers so there's some implicit level of routing going on in this connectivity matrix that's not in the other ones the matrix must determine to which c's to deliver each packet so something has to be looked up to work that out and then the slo sles apply to individual senders are paired with their individual receivers so you can actually say this i'm going to send this sort of traffic from here to here and then that means there's no linkage between sender and receiver and a sender may be disappointed if a receiver is over subscribed so i'm not surprised this has caused a few hands to go up and i think we should try to clear them before we move on so terry adrian on on on jotting down the types of matrices connectivity matrices i um i want to start with the basic uh matrix point to point and um my question is we talk about a connectivity matrix and we talk about connections um in your view a a matrix can have multiple connections and and just to highlight that we're going to raise this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "topic up in the in the nbi uh network size mbi data model we did discuss it among the authors but i want to get your initial thoughts on this so um when you say we talk about connections uh i thought i had mopped all of that up out of the framework um i don't see it helpful to talk about connections and a connectivity matrix um i i do see it on your slide right now uh it could this is like set of p2p connections but i like it like like so so yeah that that's providing some kind of context to help understand what we're talking about um but so i'll give you more context on my question so if i have two network slice end points basic network slides with two end points and i want can connectivity between them will will i be ending up creating one connectivity matrix with two point-to-point connections or will i have two connectivity matrices uh where one uh in one of them the sender is uh you know one end point other and the other it's the other endpoint can can this be clarified yeah so uh let's uh let's put sort of names to that if you want to send traffic a to b and you want to send traffic a to c you have two matrices two point to point matrices um uh you're you're right my um my text in the multi-point point was sloppy it should say this is like a set"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "of a set of p2p connectivity matrices yeah i find it awkward that matrix is usually made of multiple entries and your uh definition has only one entry but maybe other no no um everything's got more than one entry because um you're counting the ces but but point to point there's only one entry uh the way you well i hope not i hope there's a receiver as well as a sender no no so you list think about think of a list of ces for your whole network all of the edges and then each matrix you're going through and saying i'm connecting this set of ces and in the point-to-point case yes it's almost trivial but you you still have both ends of them so you have two ces in your matrix okay i mean this is the last thing i'm going to mention on this in the td topology model we use connectivity matrix an attempt to create such a mesh and and there there is a list of entries in one matrix and you know maybe we should uh talk about it offline or you know yeah we we should certainly try to get some either alignment between the use of terminology or um an intentional divergence um uh i'm fine with that uh this usage has been around for a couple of revisions so um it we might assume that it's it's been thought about a bit but um yeah let's get together and and try to resolve that tallest so um i think the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "fundamentals here are point-to-point and point-to-multipoint and everything else is just a random subset of potentially interesting groupings right and maybe it would be very helpful to to just say that you know there needs to be the concept of groupings and these can still be listed there but obviously there there'll be other uh interesting ones you know i think we we have you know a redundant hub and spoke and i don't want to go through through the list but uh otherwise it looks like a long flat list um you know that that may become confusing so i i hear what you're saying uh but i think you need to step back and and this is from a service perspective so for example something like hub and spoke is about realization inside the network and the uh the the service may want to talk about that or the service user may want to talk about that but they have no real control over what the network is doing no no no i think for example uh a set of point-to-point uh where um one point uh is uh always the same um right a set of bi-directional pointer points with you know one point being the hub and the others all the spoke is exactly you know a grouping like like many of the others here like any to any or um or multi-point to multi-point or so right so happen spoke is in the same is in the same bucket as a as a type of connectivity matrix you have n plus one nodes n of them can only send to the plus one and the plus one can send to any of the n same thing right so just as an example of how you can extend this list so if they if that if the hub"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "is a uh a customer site that is very different from if the hub is inside the network yeah and i'm i think here we're only talking about the customer side and so of course my example then also only talks about customer sites right so uh we we had and i think we've removed a paragraph that actually told you how to make a hub and spoke using the customer site um by building that out of um multi-point to point and a set of uh point to points but um we can we can revisit that um you know but i i just wanted to make one example there are more examples in the same way as you removed the the uh the happened spoke you can equally remove the bi-directional point-to-point if you do have the concept that the customer can request a connectivity matrix of a set of fundamentals like a set of p2p and p2mp with a common policy then all these these others uh bidirectional multi-pointer point multi-pointer multi-point a to a are just creations out of here is a set of fundamentals like a set of p2p and i want to have this set and a common policy and then we don't need to argue whether a bidirectional p2p has you know is so much more important to be listed whereas happenspoke is not listed okay gotcha let's take uh three hari uh and then move on with other slides oh we'll lose in the queue as well three hurry sure so i might have a question very similar to what tourist was talking about let me just uh ask the question and then you can defer to uh same answer what i'm struggling with is uh let's say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "take a multi-pointer point example where the receiving ces slo is implicitly derived from the multiple senders what i am thinking maybe you can correct me if i am receiving this if i am the receiver ce then i get to define and because i'm paying for the you know service so i get to define what slos do i need and therefore implicitly all the senders slo should be derived is what i'm thinking care to comment on it i i think we want to facilitate that but i'm i'm not sure we want to constrain to it does that make sense but as of now you're trying to implicitly derive the receivers receiving ce's slo from the senders is that the only option or can we do the also the opposite yeah we could i guess we could uh so far we've not until we get to any to any we've not specified the slos for the receiver uh but i i'd be interested to hear if people have got sort of like um operator use cases where they need to specify the receiver's slo on on a pipe model as different from the sender mr harry went quiet so i guess lou okay yeah i wasn't sure what happened there um go ahead i'll wait for i'll wait for more comments yeah i'll just my comment there yeah all right um so i'd like to go back to uh how many sort of external uh services are exposed i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "we have been through whether or not bi-directional as a special case of point-to-point uh bi-directional point-to-point is a special case of unidirectional and we have gone through that discussion so many times and every time at the end we come back and say yeah bi-directional is important to call out separately so um i'd like to propose that we keep that in um you know there's been lots of times where that is a important provisioned service or port service to deliver to a user some of the others i think it's how you construct your matrix and if you see a matrix as a set of items then you certainly could build some of the lower three out of the top three i think although i'm not a 100 sure on what a2a means other than maybe a uh a a slacker slo or sle thanks that's it uh i guess we keep going on um on this slide uh if the chairs are happy that we that i gobble up some of the spare time at the end of the second session yeah so with uh chair hat on we very privately said we expect this slide to be the last slide of this session and then we'll do the rest of the slides at the start of the next session uh okay yeah that works whatever you want or we can take it at the end you choose uh okay lewis then yes just uh commenting on the cases that you you mentioned before about the need of uh having a split view of the receivers hello i think that because we are not explicitly describing the way in which we are distributing the content if it's unique or multicast uh could be the cases that if we go for a multicast or unicast this has an impact on the receiver side so this could be a case i think thank you yeah so i think we need to look"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "carefully at the uh the a to a matrix compared to say the p2mp matrix but i but i'm this comes back to the question that we had before is where does a2a make actually uh mp to p and mp to mp redundant and then actually i think you get everything you want through the a toa so i'm a little confused by the hands that are still up but i think uh wim is next yeah so uh i think thanks for doing the great work because this is not an easy an easy thing my main question the i that i have is the following with which is also as a follow-up question uh so the connectivity matrix in my view is mainly to help define uh the characteristics of the azolo and azales is that is my understanding correct [Music] yes sort of i mean consider yourself there uh requesting a slice service you need to say uh in some sense what traffic is going what the traffic demand is going to be i'm going to be sending traffic from here to here and this is how i want it to behave so it's yes it's a kind of an anchor for the slos but it's uh it's it's a little bit more than that yeah because see the reason why i bring it up is the following i i also i i'm a bit of the opinion that i or agree with some of the comments that we should try to model it as much as possible as a point-to-point thing because there is an other potential characteristic that we say here we say that for point-to-point there is a single ce and a single sender and a single receiving but i also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "believe when i glance over the draft there is a mention of multi-homing in in the sense that even the receiver can consist of multiple ces even for a point to point and you will have to define the proportion of bandwidth that goes to one versus the other not to make it even welcome yeah yes i have to i find myself having to thank you for making it more complex um sorry about that but yeah yeah because yeah multi-homing need to think about multi-homing in this context because i think we defined it in i there was a sentence of all active and and single active and stuff like that so even for point-to-point you're not restricted restrictive in that sense to a single ce device so as a result i believe is it not better that we try to model each of these scenarios or traffic traffic or connectivity matrixes as a as a collection of point to point with certain characteristics such that that uh and and use that to define the as a layer as a law i that's what goes on in my mind is to try to help a little bit this thing but yeah i wanted to bring up this multi-home to as well because that brings yet another dimension which makes it even more complex yes yeah okay need to think about that definitely we have one more minute before uh this we take a break maybe you can take one more comment and then we can take a break i can do that uh that would be louie yeah just about yeah uh my comment is really taking a step back you know i know what a ce is but i'm trying to bring the ce which is you know in your draft customer endpoints in the context of this i mean is it you esee is the app behind the you is a ce i'm trying to figure out where"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "do you define the ce or is it just on the network edge is that nice nice nice question because uh we have a point coming up on uh on the next slide which you'll get after your break that is talking about how we talk about endpoint service endpoints in the context of slicing and i i'm not comfortable with ce although we sort of understand what it means uh it's not very good when the sea is in fact a service delivery point in the middle of the network or the end of the the network slice is actually in a pe so it's it's it's ugly and yeah we're on the same page okay i'll i'll wait for the next session yeah i think we can stop here uh tarek reza if you guys can hold on to your questions we can resume uh after half hour does it work for you uh a whole half hour what am i gonna do fantasy thank you all uh we're going to break now and we'll see you in half an hour yeah thanks guys i believe we will have a new link for the next session so everyone should exit and rejoin sorry about that that's just the way meet echo set up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:16",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] you"
  }
]
