[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:40",
    "text": "advisor Adrian in the room So we have a good showing of people Thank you all for joining This is an IETF meeting with means that we have processes and rules related to our activity here. This slide is our note well, which is talking about contributions Yesterday there was some chair training that's said we should just leave this up here for a moment and not give our commentary and give an opportunity for our people to look at it. I think there's a lot of text here. So if you're not familiar with this slide, please jump on the note well on the bottom If you type by ETF, note well into Google, you'll find it It's really important to understand what rules govern your contributions to this to our work here We also have a guidelines governing our conduct and how we treat each other. I don't remember if there was any specific don't say anything here, so I will take an operation to say something. It's important to treat each other with respect to remain professional, even when we have good, heated,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "technical discussions which is the reason we get together so it's perfectly okay to have differences of technical opinion but keep it professional keep it on point. If you do feel that you're not being treated properly, we do have a team and oddbundsman team, excuse me need more coffee clearly, who are there as a resource if you do feel like you haven't been treated appropriately and that inside a meeting or outside a meeting For those that are remote, you've already figured out how to be here, so that's great. Thank you. For those in the room, we ask that you scan in. We do expect to do a couple of polls today, so it's really important that you do scan in, and that's a way that you could participate in those polls also to keep it sort of equitable between those who are in the room and those are online, we're going to be managing the queue via the tool So we really ask you join either by scanning or using the full application on your So I mentioned already the Q control. What I didn't mention is joint note taking So as we have done in previous meetings, we're using the note There's a link inside on meetings There's also the link on various pages Please join and help us capture the discussion that we have. You don't need to capture the words of someone presenting. That's what YouTube's for, but the main points and any agreements we come to, we think it's really important to capture that. So if you get up in the mic and make a point, make back and check that it was appropriately captured Thank you. All material is online and available. It's actually been there for most of it for a couple of days"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "The agenda has not changed from what was previously announced. So no last minute shuffles or surprises We have a pretty full session although we do have a little time, so we'll probably be a little flexible and managing the time if we're having a good discussion, particularly on a working group draft, will allow a little more time on that. And with that Okay so now a very brief update on the document status, later on, Pavan will go in more detail So first of all, just we have a set of documents that are in the editor queue or are waiting for our ID to go ahead and here we are not expecting people in the room to do anything so the special attention comes to several documents so first of all is the update the type update This is the one that is, let's say, a little bit blocking other documents so it has some some open issues, so it's just now waiting for the authors to submit the version so we can unblock so just please work on this too move forward And then we have some documents that are just waiting on this update so that's no no no have some documents that are just waiting on this update so that's no problem we just want the other unblocks they can go ahead and the slice mbi has some open issues also so that and also waiting for the update so authors should take care of that and also in the layer 3d topology there are also some open issues that need to be addressed by the by the authors and also we have the 5GNS MPLS that will have the discussion later. We recently adopted the T2 topology profiles and the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "the topology filter the IPR was completed and now we have just started the IPR poll okay so it will have three weeks to answer to that poll So this was the Rata that was submitted and after the discussion that you have the thread on the list the Rata was rejected. So any details? just go to the go to the list for for work for the details. So here, we had a couple of virtual interns So the first one was about the NRP selector. We had very good feedback in that intermeeting You have here the minutes with all the details of what was discussed and there will be follow-up on the main list of the points that were recent during the work of the intermeeting. So we expect to advance and the second topic that we had was a meeting between NMOP and for the digital map activity and the topology. So how can we use the technology model that was producing? this also for the purposes of the digital map? The discussion that started in the interim, which can see also the minutes there has continued in a site meeting this week and is expected to continue So there is still working progress to see what is the best way to advance one so liaisons so first one, we have an incoming liaison that has been sent to several working groups Please take care"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "and read it. And if any of the people in the room is willing to prepare or to us anything to say, send it to the list and we will prepare the response. Otherwise, I think there will not be any response sent. So this is contribution based from from the people to the IMT 2020 2020 And then we have a set of liaisons that have already been answered for the framework for the liaison on the slicing, the first two of them and the very first one is just we responded with the publication of the framework So we already informed. The second one, if you remember, we have one of the working group documents that refers to 3GPP technologies and after some discussion we decided that the best way or the best approach was for the to review the document and confirm that everything that we are saying is okay because the document contains a lot of text that is not coming from I IETF but comes from 3GB hence this this layers on was sent so we expect we already came them time also to have their meeting and to provide a CETA And the last one is the input for the OTMT standard work plan and this is now been interested Okay, so just a final reminder of the idea disclosed process. So here, even if it's not required, here we encourage and we all work usually do is in previous today"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "the adoption of a working group document and in the working group last call we poll for any IPR, so people have forgotten this disclosing any APR, thank you that this process and please follow it So, JITHap So we still don't have all the documents tracking jithab. So we still have some individual jith hubs around So here, just remember that we have this official jithab so if you want the document or the jith hub, so if you want the document or your jitware, you store the document and with the issues and so on to be storing the official peace working group so you have it here, contact us if you want to move the repository. I think there is with Tarek we started to to the migration. And then for some reason, we can not follow up. So this one is to follow and other documents the same once long as you once the document is adopted also please transfer it but just always, just the consensus is on the list and not in the GitHub once the document is adopted, also please transfer it. But as always, just the consensus is on the list and not in the JIT-Hap. We use the J-Hap to track things, but consensus please on the list So here we want that authors of the working group documents that they in advance to the the working group documents that they, in advance to every meeting, they provide a status of it just what has changed anything that is not solved and also unique need the working group to or you need to your own group inputs or you need the chairs for advanced So here either you do a report"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "during the IETF session or just send an email to the working group and with the status. Okay, so please all the authors of working group documents, please follow this process and now I leave it to you As the slides, slides suggest this loose last working website session as T's working group chair, I'll use the platform to say a few words to do last working-up session as T's working group chair, I'll use the platform to say a few words to Lou. I've had the privilege of sharing the responsibility of serving this wonderful working group with you before nine plus years so I'm grateful for that Thanks for being a great mentor for letting me have the time and space to grow into the role the honesty and integrity that you bring to the table for every consensus call is something that Oscar and I will try to emulate as we continue to serve this working group And again, a big thank you for agreeing to be part of this working group's illustrious technology advisory team. Lou will be joining Adrian as a tech Thank you also like to thank to thank Lou, because I mean, I have enough time to catch up otherwise I mean just jumping in it has been very difficult I hope to have learned a lot of things from you we've had four eight in loose tenure so John has the privilege of representing the 80s Yeah, Lou, Lou tends to wear 80s out apparently No, I think you guys said most of what I was going to say anyway But one of the best things you can say about a leader is that they work to bring new people in and make themselves obsolete or at least able to retire"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "So, you know, it's really says a lot of good things about you that you, you did that And thank you for making it really easy to be in nature for this group Tim? Yeah so I just wanted to say, I hope Lou it wasn't something I said But again, thank you so much for that I'm certainly looking forward to being responsible AD for the working group moving forward and you know, thank you for all the work you've done Obviously I've followed in the background not as AD, but just add of interest in the technology. So, again, thank you Well, thank you all And it's really been easy working with this group because it's such a great group of technical contributions and also people that are generally easy to work with which is nice. So that's been great I'm going to go back to one thing that was said, I'm not retiring The reason for this is, you know, you hear that it's been planned for a little while It's to free up time, so maybe I can spend a little more time as a contributor. And so I'm not going away. I'm not retiring just yet That'll happen eventually, but not yet. And I will continue sharing other groups, but really been great with working with this group. I think you're in great hands. And, you know, the work of this group is so important. I continue to think it's a will continue chairing other groups but really been great with working with this group I think you're in great hands and you know the work of this group is so important I continue to think it's so important I went and look through the the history of the RFCs published. It's interesting to see the shift from, you know, distributed to controller base That's really very interesting to see that shift over time and the work we're doing right now on particularly on slicing is really important in the industry so keep with the good work and thank you for letting me be here for so long so we should move forward"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "Okay, next on the agenda is working with Darkman status My favorite slide the 29 documents on this slide We have five documents that are in the in what we call publication requested stage. They are in different in there at varying stages of the IESG processing phase. We have five other documents that are on the gender today, so that leads us with 19 documents and the status of each of those 19 documents is captured in this slide. We have six documents in what we call post what we call post-working group last call stage There are three of them, the Yangtie the Path Computation Yang and the Network Slicing Service Yang These three documents are dependent on our 8776 update and I will dwell a bit on the status of that document in a later slide I will not be walking through the status of each and every one of the documents covered in this deck, but as usual, I'll double click on a select few and dwell on them a little bit For the remaining, please do go through the slides and also check the status reports that are sent to the list and if there any questions please pose them either here or send it to the list. So with that, let me jump to slide three So this is the ACTN performance model Monitoring Telemetry Autonomics Young document The authors believe that the document is ready for last call. So please do review this in anticipation of an upcoming working class call The next document that I would like to draw your attention to is on slide eight. This is the document that talks about realizing that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "network slicing using the notion of network resource party partitions. There was one revision published for this in may that addressed a few editorial comments that are made earlier on We did have an interim on May 29th that focused on the requirements of an RP selector We did receive some great feedback and there's been some discussion off the list as well and all of this needs to be discussed and incorporated to this document. So please be on the lookout for some discussion on the list and also text in the newer version of the document. Let me now go to slide 9 nine this is the rfc eight seven seven six update document, the T-E types Yang We did take revision 10 of this document through working the last call. Revision 11 was published addressing a major chunk of the conference that are received during the last call revision 12 was published just a few minutes before this meeting, which should address another set of comments. We still have a few comments from Med that are unaddressed. Those are captured in the Gittling here Most of these comments are still editorial There are, I think, a major chunk of those reference texts from the original rFC so I guess that's taking some time There is, I think the others do really that there is some urgency with getting this done given the dependency that the other documents have so please do you expect to see some I think if there are any items that would need working with input, it loads and them to the list, but yeah, expect to see some updates on this fairly soon There are three other young documents for which the rock"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "authors believe there are no more changes to be made Those are the young RSVP document and the SF Topology document and the SRT Topology document. So please do review those as well in anticipation of last call Those should get lined up for working with plasma call as soon as the first batch of young documents go out the door So those were the documents that we wanted to draw your attention to as part of this deck if there any questions on these or any of the other working group documents please to pose the here or send it to the list I don't see them, see anyone lining up So let's go to the next one That would be Christoph Good morning to everyone I am Kristav Sharković from Juniper Networks I will present the update on 5GNS IPMP draft on behalf of my co-authors Next slide, please No it doesn't work. Anyway, all right. So, um what we've last call was for the draft revision 04. Then we received some updates or some comments and then we issue revision 05 in April 24. And there were chance to address the comments raised during the workroom last call mainly from G and Xiu-onk and basically to ensure better alignment with the application draft then the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "consistent terminology. We have some inconsistency in the terminology So we make changes here. Thank you clarify as well customer of end-to-end slice customer versus customer realization And removed NRP, so network is resource partition from the list of Transport Plains candidates because we received the comments that NRP is not part of the current existing, you know, technologies that are being used by the operators and the draft is based on the on the current existing technologies. So how to use the current existing technologies to implement this? slicing. So we remove the NRP from that Then a suggestion we receive suggestions to remove addressing example into a separate document So we provide some addressing example for the for the slice IPV6 specifically IP4 as well But authors explained that this is not about marking recommendation, but this is some example. Just, you know, exemplifying local design that can be used by the operators using existing tools. And then we didn't receive any further comments on this so no follow-up since then. Next slide, please Then we received further comments and we implement this additional comments in the revision from 06 to 08 so 06-0708. The last revision, the kind of revision is 08 It was released in June 24 approximately one month ago. And then you received very detailed comments from Adrian So first was related to the documents structure and the new content. So we made many changes, you know, then has this overall structure of the document. And then most of Adrian, suggestions were taking the account, including scalability discussions and some others. Then there was the questions regarding keeping or removing the appellation you know, summarizing the free GPP technologies which apply here to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "you know, content of this draft And the decision was to issue the liaison statement to free GPP and we have waiting as I understand for this respond I think until end of August we we're supposed to, until, so in the August, we're supposed to get respond from GPP on that. Then there was some comments regarding mapping and unmapping between the different domains so we clarified in the draft and binding back a packet received from the transport network domain. It's not in this scope of this of this draft. So this is out of the of the of this draft and the crisis classification will happen on the on the next domain which run, for example, run domain, whatever Then you know there was a discussion a lot about transport plane versus a network system partition versus filter topology slides We used initially in our draft transport plane to discuss different planes or different transport underlays that today are used by the many operators For example, you know, one kind of set of tunnels which is optimized based on the latency metric and another set of tunnels, which is based on the normal IGP metric that can be implemented using different technologies available today for example RSVP tunnels or segment rotting tunnels of Lexalgo or whatever. So it doesn't include any partitioning of the resources and so on. So in initially we used for this term transport plane because it was using some over overdrafts as well for similar aspects of the transport technologies. You received the comments, you know, that maybe this is NRP, maybe the topology. So NRP as already mentioned the previous two slides back, I think, the version 5 will you move the NRP from the, from the text of the draft. And then we, okay, we changed the transfer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "plane to interpE transport plane transfer planes sorry so you know to provide the connectivity between MEP text of the draft. And then we, okay, we changed the transport plane to InterPE transport plane, transfer plane, sorry. So, you know, to provide the connectivity between NMPEs. One, of course, maybe there's, if there's a better term for that so for example layer to VPN, layer 3 VPN data models that are using in the models itself under lay transport for similar aspects of the transport So maybe we should use under the transport I think that will be some further discussion on that And since then, we didn't receive further comment Next slide, please In version 7, we are addressed the comments from Deborah about the addressing so as I mentioned, we put some example address in the text of the document and we received that Deborah, acknowledge that that is no clear on addressing being local, but still the question that this is might not belong to existing technologies but of course, allocating the IP addresses and you know, configuring the IP addresses on the interface on tunnel 8 points and so on, this is common practice that is used today. We just provide some example of and address allocation in that. We didn't receive any the third comments on that, so we consider this point as closed as well Then in revision 8, there was a question for clarification from Greke about 2.m So whatever there are gaps in RFC, 70, or how to assess isolation objectives. So we clarified that there are missing tools, for example, SFC, service effect training, but the scope is to leverage existing tools So this is what the moment. No changes were needed in the document itself. So we get a acknowledgement from Greg. So we consider these issues as well as closed. Next slide, please And the next steps next steps now just actively engaged with all the reviews"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "to address their comments, make changes So we made a lot of changes through this revision six, seven and eight and provide rationale for not making changes if we decide not to make changes And the authors believe that the version 8 is ready to be sent for ASG for publication Thank you very much and if there are some questions. I am open for questions Hey, Christoph, it's Adrian You invoked me You rub the magic lamp and so here I am. No follow-up from me since 31st of the 5th. Were you waiting? for any follow-up from me or are you just saying I haven't seen you a birthday card? No, we consider that because if there is no further comments that we address the all your comments that you sent to us Yes, you've addressed them I'm not 100% happy, but the we're going for consensus here i think so you know I won't die if this gets published Okay, Jaydon from Howie, yes, thanks for all this work. Yeah, I think the draft improved a lot and I will give another brief review of the latest version maybe after this week. Okay thank you much um hi grab murski ericsson uh so yes, thank you for responding to my questions. But I would accept that something will be noted in the text to that. So not only just for my information, but for future readers and for personally, I think that it will be helped if this document goes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "through another period of review. All right so can you say the company written as well so we can address that? Yes, thank you very much Whatever you responded would be helpful if it's reflected in a document okay Okay, I'll see anybody else. I do have a comment This is regarding the inter-P-E transfer plane. I've read the section I think we can revert this section without actually having to coin a new term for that I think all it's talking about is service mapping using traditional means So consider rewriting that section without coining a new term i'll also send some uh such students. Yeah, but we are some figures as well to show the mapping and the figures we have as well in the letter, so we need to be review how to how to understand Yeah, I think your point about reusing an existing term if you need the term is is really a good one underlay transport seems pretty reasonable I found the new term a little cumbersome confused yeah if you under the transport is the you know the agreement we can rework a this document to use under the transport term All right. Thank you much Bo, are you here? Yes Can you hear me? Yes Okay, thanks. Then I will get started"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "My name is Paul, and I will present this NIP's Young Modules on behalf of all my co-authors and contributors. So I will give an update of this NIP Young Models data Young Modules on behalf of all my co-authors and contributors. So I will give an update of this NRP Young Model status. Next slide, please So, uh status of this NRIP Young Mod Modules, this working group draft was adopted in last IETF meeting and we presented in T's interim meeting And just before this, meeting we posted zero two version In this version, we addressed most of the open issues raised during the working group adoption And we thanks everyone for your valuable comments, Tom Patch Adrian, Matt, Louis Jeune working group adoption. And we thanks everyone for your valuable comments. Tom Patch, Adrian, Matt, Louis, Jusson, Italo, Oka. And the changes we made are mainly two parts. One is about Yang model optimization, and the other is the description improvement For young model changes, the first major update is PHB ProfileL List, which I will explain it in the following slides slide This is from Matt and Lewis Commons Commons And the next major one is about an IP monitoring We add a new container to hold the NIP-specific node link attributes augmentations on the area"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "following the layer 3 three three topology augmentation practice and the other some young improvements made raised by MED that. And for the text description, we make the term consistent with the off-scene 9543 the network size framework about NRP definition and network slides service terms consistency We also add a new section to clarify the NRP network model and device model usage in the context of networks controller, network controller and device controller devices and we also add a description of NAPP policy three modes and also the resource reservation description These are just all the clarification we add are from the upstream upstream Network Framework, Network Slice, Atchamp Test and NRP Scalability They are all working group drafts. And we also fix young examples in the in appendix appendix Some open issue we still have we like to get the working group feedback the first one is about the normative reference of topology filter draft which is currently in the process of working group adoption The situation, from that is that we back draft, which is currently in the process of working group adoption. The suggestion from that is that we better remove this normative"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "reference. And when it's stable to get it back But at the this draft is in the process, we think we can keep this as a yes when the draft is adopted And the other issues are related to young models and I will discuss them later Thank you I go into the specific details on the change and open issues, I will first re-pack the overall definition of NAPE-R models on the configuration part which gave some background on specific issues Again, as I said, earlier, NRP models are designed based on the three upstream documents The next slide's framework, define the general, NRP definition, gave the definition here It's about the subset of offer QA scale scheduling resources and associated policy on the center of links in otherly network associated with NAPE. Yeah you want to take questions now or after? Yes, please. If there's a other lay network associated with NAPI. Do you want to take questions now or after? Yes, please, if there's, I like to hear hear A question or please, if there's, I like to hear. A question, a suggestion For the NRP policy, we have an RP ID there. Could we consider a rename? it to NRP policy ID perhaps just for disambiguation from all the other things which we discussed actually I'm going to talk about that a little bit because NRP policy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "is quite a specific design in the network slides MPMPR that the NRP ID is not actually the ID ID that be instant ancient triggered by this policy So this is a management ID I mean the network, the NRP instance ID not the policy Policy, the name here is for the policy Am I clear on that? Yeah, I think, Kevin, your point is noted. Maybe you can start a thread on this I think what Bo is trying to say is by using an RP policy, you're instatiating it NRP and the ID that's specified here is that idea of the NRP that's being instantiated in the management in the management right management yeah yes and the ID that's specified here is the idea of the NRP that's being instantiated. In the management, in the management. Right, management plan, yeah. Yes, okay then um think then we're talking about the NRP policy here and because the the general definition in the frame network network means, means different technology implementation IP or MPS or SPRIN Network that will be realized in control play and data playing a different mechanism and also the network"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "NRP scalability also defined this relevant NRP action forwarding mechanism So, so basically, relevant NRP forwarding mechanism. So based on these three documents, we define the NRP-YAN model components where you can see on the young tree that, as resource reservation topology, they are quite straightforward derived from the NIP general definition and also the some like an IP policy and selector and PHB these are defined in the network slides at PNPR and you can see on the right hand side, this is a figure with added in this version to show that the NRP network model and NRP device models position relationship with the network slides controller and network control and devices And you can see also here, see that in the young tree, in the top container is about policy profile list Here we added in the version to address the piece issues raised by MAX and Lewis. And one other two open issue is about the NRP device Mads sync the sync, we currently augment the network This route seems not a device model's route because we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "augment 8345 its networks This is not clear to a device model And the other is a about a network the selector I would go into detail in the next slide So this is a new added pHB proof profile Louis read the comment that he's not the previous model seems not clear whether the pHB is a multiple one for a particular NRP instance or it's just a global one Here, and also MAD made the comments that a PHB program helps to reuse the standardized PHB and leaf reference can be helpful here So we add check the pre-exam definition in the individual draft on the NFP policy draft. We think the original design is quite useful so we borrow here and we use leaf wrap reference for the global NRP and also the link specific pHB here so you can see that this PHB is used for the together with NRP selector The selector can identify the NRP specific resources and will also apply the PHB policy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "here So I will move on to the open issues if there is no comments on this PHB definition definition So Matt made the comments on the NRP device model augments, the network model design His comments is about that this current hour NRP device model is not device model It seems not the right route What my proposal here is that we think that networks is not that clear in the context of device configuration. So I suggest that we can reuse a grouping of an IP network model rather than augment AD345 So that's the purpose here And if there's no comment on this, I'll move on to the next open issue that there is also a comment from Matt is about this NRPC selector. The comments is about do we exclude the combination can be used as selector which referring to the IPV6 part? that he's mentioned maybe dedicated as a V6 seed or IP destination derived, can be used together for me that the network slides IPMPS and also an IP scalability doesn't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "have these kinds of use cases of combination So at this time, I think we can, if Matt can propose some, some cases to network slides IPMPS or scalability to see whether there's some real use case that can be used here So that's all Captain is catten again? Yeah, Ketan. Okay Talavra, Cisco. I think it may be a bit too early or difficult to come up with all types of select and what all combinations is required They may not be even covered in any of those documents. It will evolve so I'm wondering if there is a way to do this in a manner that is extensible. I'm not a young expert to provide suggestions but I hope in the working group, somebody can help come up with something like that This point noted, I think there's still early days I think there are other documents and various other working groups that are evolving as well uh but yeah this is work in progress so any feedback on how this needs to be modeled would be useful Children from Hawaii, I see that in this model actually there's a choice like using AC to as a matching rules so that can be very flexible Yes we also, we can say think all these kinds of combination and see whether it's flexible enough"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "to coordinate to fit the requirements of the two drives drops mechanism definition drops mechanism. So that's all from the open issues And so the next step for this draft is that we will make coordination with the two working group drafts solution definition and we welcome any reviews and comments and especially the comments to see whether we have the raised during a working group that we can close so That's all for this. Thank you very much, Bob So I expect that to follow up in the list the different points that you have recent today so we can get updates and get consensus on them I think we need feedback from the working group for to close those. Okay. I will send out the updates and ask the feedback. Thank you Okay Thank you good morning This is Jeydon from Hawaii and going to give an update about this draft on the scalability considerations for the NRP on behalf of the co-authors Okay, a little bit recap of this Nitro Slyssil and NRP. I think people in this group are very familiar with these concepts. So I'll be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "brief. We know that the general framework and the concept of the idea of NERC slides has been described in the published RFC, 95 are very familiar with these concepts, so I'll be brief. We know that the general framework and the concept of an IETM nerve slides has been described in the published RFC, 9543, and it mentioned that Narrow Slice Services can be mapping in and the Nitro Slice Connected Constructs to the NRP in the Anderly Network and an RP consists of a set of networks resources and is associated with a filter topology and can be used to support one or multiple networks slides services and as the number of the neural slides and the number of NARPP view increased according to the different deployment scenario, the scalability of NRP is important So this document provides this design principles and also the considerations about the scalability in both the control plan data the data plane. And now we also have some scalability optimization suggestions in this document Here are the updates in the latest version Firstly, we police the text on the NNRP scalability design principles in Section 3, according to the feedback received both online and offline And in the appendix section, we also added some examples of a narrow slash realization with different technologies and their scaleability implications. There are also many editorial changes under the update to the references The next step for this document I think, is to reach the consensus on the scalability design principles so that we can okay, and also, if there's any other additional considerations or principles we want to add about the scalability in terms of the control plan, the data plan can be added to this document as well. And then we can use this document as a guideline for the protocol"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "work for the data plan, the control plane, which is the data plan can be added to this document as well. And then we can use this document as a guideline for the protocol work for the data plan, the control plane, which are required for the scalable NRP solutions Then we can move this document towards working group, let's call, in the next step Here, I would like to give a overview of the scalability design principles in this document. Here, this is another full text If you want to check the test, please go review the document. Here, I know we also I will not read everything here. Just want to summarize what we have in this design principle section The first part is we have some text about how we can achieve the scalability in the control plane That is by sharing the topology or filter topology among multiple NRPs so that the SPF competition of our head can be under control And second part is there's also text about identifiers in the data packet We need identifiers of the past NRP is there's also text about identifiers in the data packet. We need identifiers of the past, the NRP, and the topology. But they may be using separate fields or using the same fields on may even overloading this field These are part of the solution design There's no specific constraint limit in this document. The document also talks about NRP instantiation. The NRP specific past competition. And also, again, NRP identifying the data package required to indicate the packet and the associated NRP. Also, some texts about the stereo the services to the NRP-specific paths using the control plan and the data plan mechanisms If you want to check the details, please go to the draft And text on in the record color is something we changed in the latest version. So if you have any questions, just please ask. This is a the second part of the design principles. Basically, we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "talks about some requirement about the solution on the scalability should not be, we should not attempt to constrain operators in their deployment choices they may use on the scalability should not be we should not attempt to constrain operators in their deployment choices they may choose to use a solution which not be that scalable but maybe suitable for their use case and at the same time we need to design a more scalable solution which can be used in all scenarios Again, there are the text in the right color the changes are made in the latest version More specifically, we have the text about the control plane if we want to use the control protocols for NRP specific information, we need to, it will be important to isolate it to use the control protocols for NRP specific information, we need to, it will be important to isolate this information from the existing routing information so that there will be no impact on the scaling and stability and I think that's mostly what I just said in the updates updates Can you want to now? Okay ketan talaulikar says Cisco. Yeah, it's on this slide. So we have had discussions offline I have concerns about, there is a kind of a contradiction there. We're saying it does not need to be involved And then we say if they must be involved, then do see think it's it's a bit important to does not have to be it does not have to be but when they need to be so like let's clarify that like yes or no and what exactly The concern is when we put things in the protocols, you know, IGPs, is BGP we will stress the scalability of that I mean depending on how much NRPs and what is to be used Example of BGPs, how is this information distributed to, you know, BGPs are sprayed protocol, right? So we have had some discussion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "I have concerns about this. It would be good to try and actually come up with what is the exact things that it's okay to add and what is not okay to add especially because in the previous slide we are saying that this will be the basis for a driving protocol work so let's spend a bit more time and discuss on Yeah, I agree we can have more discussion and polish the text here but this text is not specific to any routing protocol It's general discussion. It's for all routing protocols and that's where we have to be careful But the point is here is that we should not impact the existing stability and the functionality of the routing protocol. Maybe we just, if needed we can avoid this kind of impact so that it's kind of a acceptable when needed because for some scenarios as we already notice that using the management plane for some of this thing will be when it's number of the NARP sludge will be challenging so that some some of these things will be when the number of the NARP sludge will be challenging so that sometimes maybe we need to have some more efficient channels for some information distribution and okay so i think uh will help if we go into specifics so let's try to do that on list perhaps yeah we can have more discussion about the part of the text Hi, Greg mirsky Erickson. Actually, I concur with KT Kitan because this isolate information from existing routing information that's a little bit bad Might be following on Ketan's recommendation, more detailed than now of IGP, BGP"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "BGPOS would be helpful Or if you believe that this document should depend on a separate document that analyzes the impact on the route protocol might be that's the way of maintaining the smaller size So not exploding this document but having a separate document that analyzed possible impact and recommend certain mechanisms to achieve what you recommend Yeah, actually in this draft, we already have the recommendation about adding scalar considerations in the documents which make this extension specific to NRP so that each dog control plane or data plane draft will have their considerations about the scalability and so that is match to check whether they match this design principle here I think maybe in this document is not suitable to go to the details of each protocol yes I agree we definitely don't want to go into adding specific solutions, but when we say scalability, we probably mean specific mechanisms that needs to be used so identifying this principles mechanism giving reference to existing solutions I think that would be very helpful. Yeah, we can give some general recommendation about how to make isolation this from the existing information, right? It seems that just a piece to saying, oh, let's keep in mind skillability, it's a little bit too weak Thank you Just to add on what Greg said, there has to be a specific proposal for us to judge the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "scalability of it Just plain text on like we should not do this or it's really high level at least for me So if we have a proposal of what is the information or what what is the nature of extension that we are proposing then we can discuss the scale scalability of it. Right, that's why I see think that part of detailed discussion should happen in the solution drafts. We give the general guideline here and the requirement Yeah, okay I think the last page, I will go make it brief. In the appendix, we added this realization examples and the scalability implications I will not talk about indeed detail, but you can take a look at there are some options of realizing narrow slicing using either repeat with a default NRP, a multiple route instance for different NRPs or resources over segments or the virtual T network all these have their specific skill scalability implications so that we are trying to help people to understand the scalability in different dimensions and different planes in the network Okay And for the comments Thanks I think clearly there's a lot of text in this document that needs careful uh review and consideration so uh we'll try to find avenues that can get you more focused discussion on this. Okay, thank you and also if required also some point, also we might consider running a interim meeting for discussions if it's because it seems there is a lot of need of also of discussions or advanced progress in the documents and then we can have this discussion Okay, so let's jump to the next slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:05",
    "text": "Number six Hello everyone, this is Luis. I will present the latest status of the draft on application later five years leases on behalf of my co-authors So, a little bit of history and background of the draft in the framework document there were identified a number of use cases one of those was phagin network slides so we are starting to work in different documents on that idea so the result of that effort was to merge in one single document all the mapping of the 3GPP objects into the NBA result of that effort was to merge in one single document, all the mapping of the 3 GPP objects into the NBI-JAM model. So this is basically the scope of the draft. So how to exercise the NBI Jam model for the slicing, taking into account the objects being defined by 3gp this is quite related with the release draft that was presented before by Christoph and we have had some coordination as well between both efforts along the time, and you can see here basically the story lock of that So the changes that we have introduced in this version CO2 we basically did an overall cleanup of the documents, so trying to improve the video readability. It's not a, or was not a simple document, so we are trained to do an effort on improving that readability We have tried to simplify the document as well moving some content to the annex or such a way that we can keep in the main body of the document, something that could be basically better understanding We also introduce some corrections to the example provider. As said, we are trying to exercise the NBI and model, so for that we are also taking example based on examples that are defining the NBI jam model for slicing and trying to exercise them with the objects from 3bP"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "as already said we also added some terminology definitions that are coming from 3GPP as the EP transport and the EPRP so that the reader can have a number of context of the is handling the draft We for sure update it as well the references to the RFC 90 9543, so the framework document in all applicable scenarios and added the reference in general because also the FDBPSB BP specs are evolving and yeah we did that exercise so exercise so yeah so we are now preparing the version 03. We receive on top of version 03 comments from MET. Those comments have not been yet addressed so it would be the the matter of version zero We also request at the time of preparing zero two uh feedback to the working group we see a mail to the mailing list and we have not received any further comments so maybe we should understand that this okay maybe not. But the point here is to encourage all of you to provide comments that could help us to either improve the document or fix any issue, any concerns that you could have During the elaboration of the new version, we also keep continuing working on making the document more read because it's essential to have this comment understandable for all the audience that could be in IETF but also audience that could be in the EPP. For next steps, apart from creating version 03, we would like to start requesting directorate reviews And we also would like to, yeah, to ask for the, working group last call process. So as to the church that and certainly we need to wait as well to the response from the CEPP for the liaison that was sent in October 2023 that is expected to we expect"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "to receive the answer on August during by the end of August so we will take as well that as an input for the for the new version and that's all for this Thanks for keeping it short Any questions for Lewis? Okay so now I will cover this other draft that is about the neighborhood size controller and the associated data models that could be around the data neighborhood size controller. And again, I will do on behalf of my co-authors so just to put in context this draft, this presentation, on the next one, basically what we will cover here is related to the internal of the networkless control So the models that are from the nowbound interface of the neighbor slice controller up to the southbound interface of the network slash controller so the idea is to it through the different models and how they relate and what could be basically the interplay of all of them a little bit of recap and refresh on the draft proposals so according to the different models that are being defined and the different features or functions is expected, we start working on identifying two main blocks let's say the mapper and the realizer. For the mapper, the idea would be essentially to consider the NBI, young model, which is technology agnostic trying to map into the network resources partition and so, and trigger the realization in the block that we name network realize It's important they know that we put here at the bottom of the slide that is coming from a comment from joel and basically this reflects that the purpose of the document is not to answer standardize or constrain any kind of impact"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "implementation. It's just to play with the relation of the model that we are defining around the slicing So make clear the relationship all of them not standardize or constrain any kind of implementation. It's just to play with the relation of the models that we are defining around the slicing. So I make clear the relationship, I'm all of them So the models, you can see in these points A, B, and C. So we are considering customer view That would be essentially the NBA Jam model, and maybe also the customer intent topology that will be presented later by Iowa. Also the provider view that could be that transport, networks like Yang or the OT slicing or the nrpea yang so we have a variety of them the depending on the purpose. And then the different models that would go against the controller that the presented in the next presentation so the updates do this document, the document was adopted before IETF There were a number of comments, around 10 comments that were received during the adoption process and were documented in version 01. In version 02 we have covered most of them i will go through them right now but there are yet to remain open issues that we expect to cover in the next session So going to the issues that we're right during the adoption, one of the issues was raised by by adrian we with the idea of discussing about the is, let's say, pertinent to consider the models between the mapper and realize because of the fact that it could be considered as a kind of internal data model so he the point is that, well, the NRP is also defining the framework document in the RFC 9543 so somehow it's being specified And also, anything prevents that the difference modules could be implemented by different vendors maybe because of different portfolio, different technologies and so on so far. So yeah, we consider this as a address with the answer that we provided in the mailing list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "second issue very easy was the date of a the affiliation of Jeff. This already was done the next issue was about the reference to creativity matrix instead of a slide topology So here, the way of other addressing this is considering the data that will be presented later on by Iowa as a customer topology intent. So we could expect to have some indication from the customer about the topology that the customer expects at the time of realizing the slice so we consider as well as solved with that. Another one was from Adrian, the last in the here in the list was the point that the provider view could also be consumed from from network engineer, for instance, from the NOC, and so in the field of the controller, I will come back just one second here this B interface is now in the new version has also an external access let's say so that anyone operating the the enable-glass controller can also have that provider view can have access to that provider view The next set of comments again the raised by Adrian was the idea of the separation of maps realizer that in the previous version was explicitly set in the security considerations part, so very, let's say, far from the beginning of the document so we commented at the beginning of the document as well, so making the reader aware of that separation. The next issue, and the following one the eight and nine that were rise by Swami andy bierman was around the same idea of treating internal models, in principle internal models to the never-release controller, but that said, we consider that could be external as well. So this interface between the map and realizer could be external. And the final"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "issue was from Kieran about the let me check this I don't remember the technology andostic nature of the networkless controller and the inclusion of the realizer component I cannot remember now what we solve this apologies for that I will put in the chat because I can remember now sorry for that but we consider as well solved I will put later on in the chat sorry for that. So next step We need to yet to close on open issues There were a number of comments from me that had not been yet covered. So we need to go through them. And also an issue raised by Adrian about the number of authors. We started to ask him for this or in the next version also we expect to reduce the number of authors in the first page to five We also want work to assess the proposed structure with the progress of the different aspects of slicing the NRP that we have seen now with G or the customer topology intent that we recommended by Yawa and so on so far and refining the structure based also in initial experiences. So probably this could provide some feedback that could help us to assess, let's say, this approach We intend to prepare a new version for IETF one to one and solve all the issues and present to you data at that point on time. Thank you So any question for Luis? Thank you presenting the next one as well? Are you presenting? the next one? So while we bring up the slides So this is a working group adopted document that talks about associated data models on a net"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "well? So while we bring up the slides, so this is a working group adopted document that talks about associated data models on a network slice controller, right? But this, the work group adopt a document the focus is primarily on the model on the southbound side And the next document is, our model on the northbound side. And they are still associated models but did you ever consider putting them to together in the same document? This one on the previous one could make sense could make sense so it could be a possibility as well pass through this figure probably could be a evident and maybe it could make sense to have all this story from the top to the bottom okay so thank you so i will present this this other draft, which is about the installation of networked slices in service-provided networks on behalf of my healthers as well and the idea here of this draft is essentially to visualize how we can relate the MBA model versus the network models of the service models underneath. So in such a way, that how we can activate the network controllers taking into consideration what is expressed in the NBIM model of the network slides controller so what can activate the network controllers, taking into consideration what is expressed in the NVA model of the network slides controller. So, well, this is a little bit redundant, but essentially will be, yeah, putting the context, the NBI Jam model for slicing with the attachment circuit service models, and network models for realization so the the draft has been presented in a number of IETF meetings The changes in this recent version, basically we did a test cleanup This is always needed. And also restructuring a little bit the sections so again with the purpose of improving the reliability. We have a test and references to the service attachment point and the attachment circuit model that were missing in the in the previous versions Also, we have the references to error scene and updated the mapping of attributes between the network slides and model and the service models and network models. This is was, let's say, an update because the NBI Jam Model for slicing has been evolved"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:03",
    "text": "So, yeah, we essentially have considered the latest version for how the different models are identified there. And also we have reviewed the parameters in the service models and network models So how with this exercise we are trying to find potential gaps that could come from the reality for the from the mapping of the NBI model for slicing up to the service models and network models The exercise is done for both layer two and layer three service models and network models And we also added a new figure, the overview of data models used for network slicing, which is presented in the next slide that would be this so we can see all the let's see the relationship of all the service models from the top, from the customer requests up to the bottom that would be the configuration of the devices and the network. Okay so next steps there are pending improvements, there are situations that were not considered yet. For instance, the case that the customer requires a service with a service model, but that service is realized with a next slide. That could be, for instance, the case that we service model is realized with an outy and slides We consider that the draft provides you useful guidance for these services association because some we are going from top to the bottom And yeah, we would like to ask for adoption We consider that this is ready for that even though requires more cleanup for sure And any kind of common suggestion or concern that you could have is also welcome in order to improve the document thank you Any questions? We will run a point poll Is there in? We're going to ask two questions. We'll be asking to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "questions. The first one is, is there interest in this topic? topic Yeah, the second question is whether, I mean, is there any opposition in merging this content with the working group doctor? So it looks like we're getting some pretty good support on this in interest It's about somewhere around a third of the room participating, almost everyone saying yes So let's move on to the next question So this question is going to be about merging objections or to merging this with the prior existing working group document So rather than having any independent document, just roll this in to the existing work So, if you guys, yes yes. Does it say objection? Are there any objections? So if the answer is yes, it means that you want it separate document, right? So yeah. Yes? objections? So if the answer is yes, it means that you want it separate document. So yes means you object. And then you want to is yes, it means that you want it separate document, right? So yes means you object. And then you want to... So should we need to restart objections mean you do not want to do this So I'm going to restart okay so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "just means you don't want to do this and you want this. Yes, yes yes means you come to the mic and tell us why you think it's a bad idea No, but then... And no means if you do not object, then we will be do this and you want this. Yes, yes means you come to the mic and tell us why you think it's a bad idea. No, but then. And no means there's, if you do not object, then we will move towards rolling this document into the existing one. So just again, if you say yes cue up at the mic and if no the document will be merged in the previous document. OK, so yes is do you want this document to be stopped? Yes means complete up at the mic. And if no, the document will be merged in the previous document. Okay, so yes is, do you want this document to be standard? Yes means come to the mic And that's okay, if you object yes is you want this document to be Yes means come to the mic and that's okay if you if you object we want to hear why So you want to come to the mic without saying yes Well, daniel king Lancaster, it looks like the other objectives are shy, so I will stand up and raise my objection is that the work has been progressing for quite a long time already You're talking about the working group document Yes, yeah. And what I wouldn't want to see is that delayed why we try to kind of merge this other document Okay, so you're not opposed to the work, but you're opposed to slowing down the existing work. Exactly, yeah helpful comment. Thank you Any other comments before we close this? It looks like there's a lot of support for bringing this work into the group I think Dan has an interesting point We'll have to consider that or they'll have to consider it It's on them now but thank you all Thank you. Thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "Iowa So they sit there it. Okay this is an Iowa and I'm presenting again the IETF network slides topology on data model on behalf of the authors and contributors Just a brief recap, like this model is designed to provide to give a Mac data model on behalf of the authors and contributors. Just a brief recap, like this model is designed to provide to give a, to provide a mechanism for a customer to express networks intent topology on which network slices can be built So next page next page I can do this. Okay. So here are some updates from the last revision we presented at 119 so the main thing is that we addressed many comments received at the 119 and after after 119. The first thing is we unified the use of the terminologies and throughout the document we defined what we call it customer intent topology which clearly expresses this is what customer is trying to express, and that's an input given to the network size controller so and a second change is the model included in the draft is now divided into two separate modules for the based on a module design and for the ease of implementation in which one module defines the actual customer intent apology and the other module is an augment, which augments the IETF network slides NBI"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:02",
    "text": "by adding support for the underlay path for the connectivity construct and also in addition to the we added a new section to describe the reasoning of why we are not considering about reusing ACTMBN type 2 for network slicing and within there we also make clear that the intent is to define this custom intent apology So this is also to address the comments based on METI's comments to make it clear. And also, cosmetic updates to align with the IETF network slides and BIA model. For example, we some of the definitions like diversity, constraints, which previously defined in this model, has been adopted by the network size NBI so we just remove it from this model And also on the text there's a new use guess section in which we added two example use cases about customer intent topology for the first one is a multi-tenancy in the co-selling and then the second one is a realize of connectivity constructs, different segments within a custom intent topology and this is this is applicable for five five-year-ran use case, as was presented on the last meeting next next keep forgetting about that um so here are some of the consideration regarding the working group adoption So, um, about that. So here are some of the consideration regarding the working group adoption. So this draft is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "a big part of the use cases on which this draft is initiated to solve is is a big part of the use cases on which this draft is initiated to solve are mostly transport when I said transport here is OTIN, my micro rev and WDN, which are all T-oriented, and that's the reason why this draft was initially proposed in CCAMP working group. So check up about all the use cases for OTN slicing but also the authors believe there are possible scenarios like hierarchical and multi multi-domain composite index slices as proposed by Drapte Lee may also benefit by using custom intent topology for underlay resource reservation And also, there are use cases cases defined, included in its draft that are generic and can be applicable to IPM in Strat, that are generic and can be applicable to IP&PLS technologies as well that this custom-intent topology could be up so the if we develop this work outside of the T's Working Group, for example, like if we come back to CICAM, the fear from the authors could, it could TEAS working group, for example, if we come back to CCAM, the fear from the authors could potentially risk by creating two parallel solutions for the same problem when there's a need to cover generic use cases within the T's scope So also the model that we propose by this draft is rather technological agnostic and also it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "that we propose by this draft is rather technology agnostic, and also it is a complementary data model to the IETF network slicer NBI meaning that if only connectivity intent is is designed for network slice, then this model does not necessarily need to be implement However, if we wanted to make use of topology to further cut customize how the customer would express, in terms of resource reservation and also a fine grain underlay path for the connectivity constructs This model could be used So at this point, the authors believed that would leave the working group to decide the best home for this work But if this T working group considers the customer intem topology being the best home then we would like to ask the working group for adoption based on interest that was shown before. So I think given that you are having the point, we are going to start now a poll to see the interest of the working group in this group So the first is if there is entry, so that's pretty clear So, thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:02",
    "text": "overwhelming. And not overwhelming Are you about positive? Also, those that said no, so I've would like to hear also the views later, also all in the list So let's go to the next one, because there is good result. So now is this also all in the list so let's go to the next one so now is this document this draft a good starting point for working on the topic So not much, not much different. Not much different, maybe if you more with less opinion So I'd say, you know, a little bit tepid response. Maybe we need more awareness on the draft All right. You still have a few minutes, though. Okay. Thank you. Yes still have, right, this um so the the um the the um a couple of slides next has been discussed in the last meeting basically just wanted to give a recap about the relationship with ACTM and VN. So, the VN model, there are two times of VN, one type BN type 1, VN type 1, VN type 1, VN type 1, VN type 1 is, map into the connectivity concept the VN type 2 there's currently a gap as from a network slicing perspective So if we so this table shows that what we are seeing as a VN type 2 model, which is is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:02",
    "text": "there's a gap exists in the network slicing scenario, and this is addressed by by making by this model So we also discuss about how many models that this solution should provide and the conclusion was on option four, which ends with three models one is the base, then that works like MBI, and what is proposed in this draft has two modules. One is the topology and the other is the on-allay path constraints So it ended up with three models and two individuals draft So the next step is to address comments and questions, and I would encourage you everyone to take a read of the document and provide feedbacks Thanks, sir Christoph Christa Sarkovi, I should be a planet Networks. It works now, yes Christof Sarkovich, Juniper Networks. All right, Christof Sarkovich All right, Christof Sharcovic, Juniper Networks. On behalf of my co-authors, I will present the update of 5KL to deep serve this SCP mapping draft So basically, motivation, motivation for this drafts is 5G end to an serve the SCP mapping draft. So basically motivation for these drafts. So 5G N2N network slash QS is an essential ask these drafts is 5G N2N network slash QS. It's an essential aspect or tool in the network slicing framework So it is expressed as QS profile in 3GPP data model then it is reflected in the SLO escalator"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "slicing framework. So it is expressed as QS profile in 3GPP data model. Then it's reflected in the SLO, SLA template in the draft ITES Networks Slice Young model So the primary goal of this QS network in slicing is then show the specific performance requirements like latency, reachability, throughput, and so on and so on. So we express that in the in the QS template on QS models. So this document provides an example of possible mapping of five key values to the STP marking, as well as some groups that facilitated the enforcement to the 5G networks like end to end. So again, this document is information document. It's not a standard track documents. So we're not trying to standardize here on the specific DCP values and this kind of stuff It's just information. I guess it provides, it provides for personally and should not be considered as deployment guidance. So it's not standard track So 5QI QCI, so 5QI in 5G, QSA in 4G. This is the number there's a scalar value to differentiate QS characteristics 5G systems. So mainly in the in the runs system radio access network Five care includes parameters such as packet delay budget, packet error rate, traffic restrictions, So there are many 5Ks defined by 3GPP as packet delay, budget, packet error rates, traffic, restricts. So there are many five key as defined by free GPP, five care values, exact values, like 82, 83 70 something, and behind the values there are some specific requirements, like, you know, delay, packet, Iran, and so on and so on So if is someone who's using 5Q 82, I don't know, then this and these parameters needs to be fulfilled. So this is then specification from free GPP And then the question is when we start to transport the run traffic or this freeGP traffic over over IETF transport network. Now, of course, the question is, I need we know that in IETF, we are using this CP for similar purposes that 5PA is used in the in the run by 3GP then of course the question is I mean we know that in IETF we are using DSCP for similar purposes that 5PA is used in the in the in the run by free GPP so how what is the correlation between uh, 3GP 5QI?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "and IETF DSCP to we correlate somehow and some so this is the you know questions here I think Greg has a question Yes, greg mirsky Erickson So can you clarify, so you believe that DSCP expresses latency? experienced by packets, packet was bandwidth? Well, not exactly because, you know, we say that if expedited for example, expedited forwarding the SCP value yes. So it expresses that we should provide expedited forwarding for such kind of time traffic, which was, of course, has influenced on the later probably that would be the minimum latency traffic for this network But there is, okay so can you give an example where there are specific latency bonds associated? I see, there's no Okay, there is no. No no. Okay, is there any example of DSCP? value being associated with the specific bandwidth? reservation? No Where the packet was No. Okay, so basically, the only that I know the ACP associated with the local scheduling policy not with their particular bounds and... Correct Correct. So, but that's not what uh three gpp expects Correct. So how you map from 3GP to DSCP, which is a local scheduling policy. Yeah, we have some slides later on about the mapping. Okay, because mine understanding is that what this document uh, position is that DCP can be associated with a specific resource"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:02",
    "text": "allocation Well, not resource allocation, this is for the treatment of the treatment You know, how the traffic can be treated in the transport network, in the network For example, EF is treated better than B in the SCP So you think that it's sufficient richness? to map to 3GP behaviors? No, no, no it's only one aspect, yes. Of course, we have networkly research partition, this kind of stuff, but still we need to handle this SCP somehow, or we say that, you know, all that five, traffic is single DCP value. So you think that IETF networks wise can be sufficiently mapped to 3GPP without explicit? network resource partition selector Could you repeat the question? So that IETF networks wise can be mapped to 3GPP behavior without except network resource partition? Yes, of course of course. We can implement a 5G slicing without explicit an RP selector Without. Okay, let's see Yeah, so going back to what some of the things are great was asking and the base of intent for this particular world as I understood is that you have one an RP here so you don't have your using the existing network no forklift so it's a good thing here is in being able to map to per hop behavior through PDSCP is a good attempt. But then also you have routing in addition to satisfy your other intent on top of what QOS or per hop behavior can give you so you still have flexelgo policies, You are doing routing based on the intent"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:02",
    "text": "of the service so i do believe that this could be satisfied like christopher janz is saying Great. Thank you much. Thank you Thank you. Gee you G. Gailu from Howie, I'd like to understand the scope of this mapping It's for the different priority of traffic class within the to understand the scope of this mapping. Is it for the different priority of traffic class within IETF narrow slides? Or is it? there are some more slides which is just introduction yes I have some more slides which explains more data the scope of nothing right okay so scope here uses scope of the contribution so we have a 3F transport map we have ITRF transport mapping and queuing scheme. So in IETF transport, we have some cues and we can map, you know, the traffic to the skews and so on the question is how with the map the traffic to the cues this is typically based on the on the DSPV values in case of IP traffic, in case of MPLES is traffic class values so we are limiting here to the discussions to the IP only I know so with draft Henry TSCV, WG, diff, surf to QCI was discussing kind of similar problems, similar discussions for 4G so QCI to the CP mapping We are discussing here extending in this drafts to 5QI to the STP marketing and as well apart from from 5QI we have another type of traffic in the natural so not only 3GPP traffic but we have, for example, front hole traffic we have some management traffic, maybe we have some traffic related to the distribution of time time and synchronizations of PTP traffic and so on and so on. So we know that in the existing networks we don't only carry free GPP traffic All right. So this is as well taking into account in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "draft. Do you want to take David's question now? I believe it's all right so david black i was one of the chairs of t hvvg at the time that draft Henry was considered. Draft Henry is expired it's um it's it's uh it basically gets like three three or four years. Um, I don't think it's going I don't think it's going anywhere I've not seen any signs of anybody wanting to revive it. So I, I would encourage if evaluating the draft being presented here as a standalone, as opposed to as a compliment to draft henry Okay I think I didn't fully understand because the question of the voice was not so good I think David was pointing out that draft Henry is expired and you don't need to tie this Okay, I see. I see. All right. Okay, thank you. Thank you for the comments All right, okay, so we have to draft Henry, but maybe we will change that. So basically, in the draft training, just for the historical yes, for some of the history. So in draft Henry, this mapping was not always straightforward. So we have some QCI values map to some DSP values And there are two mapping approaches. So one is one to one like draft Henry is using So one, you know, value from the QCI is map to the DCP values In the second approach is 5QA based on the grouping So again, the full problem is that let's me step back a little bit here. So the problem is that with five, QCI, we have like, I don't know, let's say 80, 80 values, 60, 70, 80 values, something like that. And in typical hardware that we have in the IETF transport network, we have like, four to eight cues. So let's say we have eight cues So the question is how we use these eight cues to carry this 80 QS, 5K value. So this is basically the question Okay. And that's the reason there's one to one mapping. So we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:02",
    "text": "need to group in our approach here that we present in this draft. We are grouping multiple five QAs to groups. And then we assign this group to the Q's. So we have limited number of Q's We don't have 80 Q's. We have only light safe eight Qs, and we are grouping these five QSTAQs this group to the Q's. So we have limited number of Q's. We don't have 80 Q's. We have only, I'd say, eight Q's, and we are grouping these five QSTA Q. So we are proposing again, this is the framework This is not the standardization As such, this is the informational draft, not the standard track draft so we are proposing to to group entire spectrum of the five key values to certain groups limit number of groups, like four groups. So group number one as an example, is the group that is group the 5PSU low latency okay this is group number one group number two is grouping the five key values with the main latency. And then the remaining 5 values is divided to group number three, group number four group number three is remaining gbr and group number four is remaining non-GBR. So this is an example This grouping can be changed, yes, so we have certain 5K value in group number one, but maybe based in the particle deployment and so on, this grouping can be changed And the we are mapping this group to the queue. So here's on the case but maybe based on the particle deployment and so on, this grouping can be changed. And then we are mapping this group to the queue. So here's, and again some example of, um, typical hardware queuing in the rotor with eight cues. One queue is probably Q, remaining Q is the, is the, is the, bandwidth queue with the rent robin or weight and trend robin something like that. And then you see here this four groups, 5K groups, group number one, group number two group number three group number four a map to set thank yous And we have additional traffic apart from 3GPPB2 GPP traffic, which is group for these four groups. We have as well net use. And we have additional traffic apart from free GPP traffic, which is grouped for these four groups. We have as well network control traffic like we need to carry, I don't know, ISIS"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "BGP, LDP, whatever we have in the network control. Then we have as well traffic to distribute the synchronization clocks on PTP traffic. If this is part of the network that we have the front hole, we have front hole traffic as well and so on. So this is again some example this is not the deployment guidelines but this is an example that we provide for better understanding of the of how can we handle the QS models all right and the next steps is to assess the conveyance of the approach of mapping file to the SCP that is ongoing, then provide information examples about the proposed methodology we provide already some examples in the draft. Based on that considered the implication of realization model for slicing in 18 examples about the proposed methodology we provide we provide already some examples in the draft based on that considered the implication of realization model for slicing in ATF better understand the implications of high-tierware and unaware connectivity models the describing the realization draft. And then to BD present a draft to this and follow the discussion initiated during IETF 1.20. Swami Thank you you Swami, no care. So if you can go to the previous slide So is the assumption in the groups? that the way the package is treated in the network, if you belong to the group? would be kind of similar? because... Yes, so as I mentioned before group number one, this is the... We are grouping five here with a low latency requirements okay this is group number one I mean my my personal feeling is that this is kind of a necessary condition, but not sufficient, because if you see in a 5G slice within that you would have with a that, packets that have higher and lower priority right and at some point you will not have to make a decision on how you are going to drop the pockets, right?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:02",
    "text": "and then it doesn't come back so yeah priority, right? And at some point, you will not have to make a decision on how you are going to drop the pockets, right? And then it doesn't come back, right? So, I mean, to me, you know, just as an implementation, you might have a stack of priority cues right and you yeah but we still have eight cues, yes, we are talking about eight cues. I know, I know so. And eight, let's say, 85 QIs. So we need to map this eight key as eight cues. Okay so it's interesting, but I think more is needed there right? Yeah, this is initial, this is revision two, this is very, at the very initial stage at the moment So we are welcoming all the comments David goes next. We have actually logged the queue after David, Craig OK. David, you can go ahead. OK Okay. We may. We can come back to the overall goes next. We have actually locked the queue after David, Craig. Okay. David, you can go ahead. Okay. We're laying a little bit of discussion from the chat and providing some context In the past, 3GP has cared intensely about this space That's one of the, that's among the reasons draft Henry went nowhere that 3GPP cared intensely and didn't, didn't like what they saw As Charles and I have commented on, on chat, 3GPP might have a different attitude, positive about the draft. It will be vital to consult 3GPP via a liaison statement if it's going to, if this draft is going to be adopted by the working group because draft Henry just just went off the rails courtesy of 3GPP opposition. I will say a technical point I do like what I see here. This draft is considerably less aggressive in his use of DSCPs than draft Henry was and I view that as a positive Yeah, yeah, of course, of course we are open for ladies and statement to free GPS. Thank you much Phil, yeah, Greg Nuskearex so yes. Right, we don't have time. Okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:02",
    "text": "at the end we can So good morning, paolo volpato, away and present last draft in the agenda on the alpha of the authors you see here So just one quick word on the relationship between this draft and the POI etc and POI so basically that is the the further document The RET cases are discussed and instantiated. There is a this second draft I'm presenting right now about assurance which is a sort of let's say add-on to the original CTNPOI, because we decided to deal with the assurance cases that could find space in the original document You see here, so basically we are still dealing with the traditional IAB and optical split so there are two layers, provided services. It's a kind of a normal multilayer network and this draft called POI assurance deals with how to, let's say, detect, localize, handle the failures, the false cases that you can find and possibly fix them Now, about the new version that we have loaded quite recently, the main differences are shown here so while the previous version focused on the mechanisms to try to fix the issues, this time we focus on the multi-layer fault management There are a few scenarios that I'm going to, let's say, introduce to have the feedback from the community There are still some open areas in the draft, so maybe I'm anticipating the region to have the support from the working group on, let's say, progress, the document with the missing parts. Now, about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:02",
    "text": "the scenarios you see here basically the two layers connected since we are the dealing with a what they call the traditional name network the interfaces between the IP layer and the optical layer are still gray interfaces you see that we tried it here to focus on the exchange of messages between the two layers and the components belonging to it either of them and on the messages that the network element sends during the occurrence of a failure to the physical network controller and in turn from the network controllers up to the MDSC. The MDC MDC a failure to the physical network controller and in turn from the network controllers up to the MDSC. The MDSC is considered as the point of let's say, consolidation of all the events the messages, the alarms, and it's the let's say, the element then eventually triggers the protection and the recovery mechanism down to the physical networks to the physical layers now let's maybe focus on this first scenario as an example to, let's say, bring aided discussion then you find all the other scenarios in the presentation and you can clearly look at them afterwards. You see there is a router called the R1 is connected for example, via two unidirectional fiber to an optical network. The object called the PE1 is not a provider edge router, so it's not to be intended as an IP element. Sometimes you use that network just to you know to be quick in the discussion, but actually is a rhodom, so it's a novel optical element the two of them are connected as a same through two fibers through two segments unidirectional fibers, for example"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:02",
    "text": "one of them as a failure So there is an issue. Connectivity is broken. So looking from perspective, of the optical network, P-E-1, as I said, a Rodham 1 immediately detects there is loss. So loss is sent to the optical network controller, which in turn sends a notification to MDSC Across the optical network, there is a kind of exchange of messages for example we see a client seek the optical network, there is a kind of exchange of messages. For example, we see a client signal fail, which is propagated internally to the network It reaches the border of the optical network. So P2, again rhodan 2 if we want and then we have a local failure indication to the router at the end of the connection. You see also the exchange of messages on the other way around. So moving back from our to R1. What is important, I'd like to highlight Our assumption is that all the network elements are sort of capable of understanding the messages which are exchanged. In the text, we have tried also to, let's say, discuss the cases when a router is not able, for example, to detect at the, I will say, at the physical level, the LFI message. In any case, R2 is in informed of something that happened in the network you see that there is a yellow arrow going upwards to the physical to the packet network controller can be a the network. You see that there is a yellow arrow going upwards to the physical, to the packet network controller can be in LFI status if it is capable of understanding the messages at the physical level but also ABF down indication, meaning that at the later 3, so the IP layer, connectivity is low That is the mimics we have foreseen. Then there are also the other scenarios, but I said, I want to be quick, so there is no need to explore"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:02",
    "text": "all of them. You can easily take a look afterwards So that first example was the Ingers case again having the optical network as the reference point so as the observer, then we have the eager scale which is a sort of dual scenario to the previous one, the point of failure is between a Rodham 2 and router 2. Then we have another case which is the full failure, I would say in the connectivity in the connection between r1 and p1 clearly you see the messages changes according to the scenario but basically again, it's a notification to the upper physical controllers and then to the MDA And a final scenario, for which maybe could be important to have your feed is something happened within the optical network so the two routers at the extremes point at the extreme points simply are notified of LFI or maybe they simply understand through the lack of BFD messages exchange that something happened now said that just to conclude the presentation I will say the next version will continue the discussion on the assurance scenarios, on the protection mechanism, recovery, and so on We are fully aware that then there will be the big on the protection mechanism, recovery, and so on. We are fully aware that then there will be the biggest part of our work, which is the definition of the Yang data models at the NPI. It will take some time. So we do invite everyone to join our discussion. You can easily send a message to Italo or Prasenget that they are dealing with the organization of our weekly or by weekly calls depending on the period there is also a get-up available so we do invite everyone to take a look at that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:02",
    "text": "I will say that's it I have one question Paolo the work is expected to be focused on the young media models on the NPI, so it's all, let's say, young models between controllers, or do you foresee that there will be requirements or extra? requirements for the communication between the network elements and the control? because and other protocols that are not the communication between the controllers just to see if the scope of the work is widened or constrained to this. Right. So my first answer is for sure we will deal with the MPI at first but clear clear we do let's say accept any indication to widen the work if necessary also to other. Yeah, not that's based on the analysis that you have made is if what is a available already down at the network elements and the or at the protocol level is to sufficient and then it's just MPI or if not you detect also gaps and then there is further work that needs to be For sure. Thank you okay uh just an advertisement that I just noticed that you are mentioned that the performance monitoring is uh is done in this job and currently I have a job which is there about resource PM which is still working on and I think that draft is also applicable for ID and optical technology. I think it would be very suitable for these service assurance if you want some more contribution I will I would like to join the discussion. For sure You're welcome a question for to Oscar for when you talk about the SBI I think as at least in the optical domain the vast majority of the device models are proprietary slash vendor specific so I think we definitely don't need to touch so do you would like to ask to touch the ID also because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:02",
    "text": "IP side? Yes, because you put it in the slide that also there was some VAT communication there were some so I guess there will be timers involved with triggering one restoration in one and the other So one option is that what we say is that the device, model for the MBI or for the optical devices is autoscope. It's up to the optical PNC domain to care about that. Yeah You we can extend the same option to the IP, say that it's up to the IP PNC and the router to figure it out or you want us to go into some existing young model for what I what I would like to know is if there is gaps in the existing in that part with the IP if there are gaps and then they need to be addressed Well, if it is vendor specific, I cannot know. No, no, if it's vendor specific of course. So I must analyze the standard year models yes i will be at for that and give yes need to be addressed. Well, if it is vendor specific, I cannot know. No, no, if it's vendor specific, of course. So you like to analyze the standard young models. Yes. For that and say if there are gaps. Young models and protocols if necessary, because something, it could be protocols Thank you. Okay. Thank you Yeah, so if necessary. Thank you. Okay. So, thank you very much for the session. Sorry, we are all of time. Can you please? take that to the list Thanks everyone for a very productive session. I'm going to ask Lou to close the session out one last time Thank you all Appreciate the great session. Look forward to seeing you with the next meeting although I won't be sitting up here. I'll be sitting back there, but you'll be in the excellent hands of Pavan and Oscar and look forward to their future great leadership. So thank you. Thank you Thank you So now we have a man, it's dumb you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:05",
    "text": "Thank you very much And I'm not going to be able to work for a record talks about network and they have a grown bad. Maybe there's a big word. I think that's about it"
  }
]
