[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "so take my slimy couple of your tables of blood so I\u0027m gonna provide you these sheets so thank you for attending this calyx session we don\u0027t usually meet but at this time we will make it so please feel the do we have a job ascribe okay good perfect and do we have a minute taker it\u0027s going to be a very short session so should we designate a minute taker okay but then I mean if you just take the notes and you can send acetates they file and we will deal with that so perfect sounds really good yeah we start with the short slide this PDF right yeah PDF this is a PDF "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:10",
    "text": "through browser again I don\u0027t know what I want to do is so the next so we guess everyone is aware of the not well if you are not please read the slide next slide so I see a few few other people online so thank you for joining us we have a JavaScript mini taker so I\u0027d like to go through the different status of the current drafts so let\u0027s start with the ITF calyx CalDAV attachment draft so the question is how do we move that trust forward because its same now in the ihe I guess is d/q so maybe Alex can tell us a few words or nighttime yeah so this document went wise G is G basically signed off on it and then there was a follow up which he reviews and joven raised lots of questions and he basically said such a horrible design it violates all sort of HTTP recommended things we downloaded it to information about the race is still a list of outstanding issues can I\u0027m waiting for you to do something so I have to press the button yeah recall I need to add more text describing why we\u0027ve gone informational which is basically outlining Gillian\u0027s objections to the current design and we need to find a way to allow content-disposition to be used as a request header do we just make an a an a request to do that or give any recommendations I think driven point was that this new really need to be brought to http-based working group I thought that was no-brainer but Julien disagreed so I think it\u0027s probably better to bring it to the working group to HTTP base as a question so this poster there\u0027s a question to the list yes and then the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:15",
    "text": "alternative is to do what Julien suggested and use the slug header but existing implementations are going to ignore that and continue to do what they\u0027re doing right that\u0027s a whole discussion about this document that so I think we should post HTTP base and of course the risks here are if people don\u0027t like it there what\u0027s happened next and but let\u0027s I can probably reach out to people and soften the blow if the one is coming but I think we should do this anyway just see and see what happens right okay yeah obviously as you know we\u0027re struggling between good protocol design which Julian\u0027s arguing for and I\u0027m all for in practice however this has already been deployed by several clients and servers Apple being the biggest one so it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s out there the horses left over right yeah okay so suggestion can you revise the document to address everything but the content-disposition yes and then so I want to make sure sure that although the comments addressed and then we can I\u0027ll take the care of the rest as important to HTTP base working group and asking the question all right all right thank you so the plan is that we address most of the comments and then we submitted to all but one comment which is about use of content-disposition the other thing is this document has been in limbo for nine months or however long so I probably should return it to the working group yeah okay so well anyway this is something that need I don\u0027t know what it\u0027s up to chairs to decide whether you want another working group last call or not it can be short one just when the changes accumulated so far but up to you well I think that we should well if there are major revision my opinion would be that we go through the working group and we do a last call so that we can agree within the working group and then contact the other working group including HTTP bists and see because well there is no way to go around that so sooner or later so that we\u0027re ready when you do the Shepherd right up where we have where we have good feeling that it\u0027s going to go through the process and being published yeah okay so that\u0027s an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:15",
    "text": "action for the ad to I mean it reject it and move it back to the working group I guess well I\u0027m waiting for four camps for a new revision anyway and then I can just updated status in the tracker and okay right okay good so the action point is that can\u0027t provide a new provision and then we move back to the working group we go to Alaska contact the HTTP working group and then see where we go okay so thank you can now the to next draft so Michael can you give us a status of where we are and how close we are from the working group let\u0027s go yeah Michael can you hear us oh yeah me is jabber okay okay so my understanding of these two graph drafts is that we\u0027re pretty close to working group lascall some implementation are in progress but what I would like you know well what would be helpful is that least we get more review on that so that we can send them being a relatively confident that we have made a good work on that because currently we\u0027re really missing some of the reviews Mike says I think they\u0027re pretty well ready to go okay so now what I\u0027m asking to the working group on sister people online and here in the room is that to provide some review because this is actually what we\u0027re missing and when I\u0027m writing the Shepherd write-up usually you have to admit that it\u0027s not clear to me how much review have been done I mean it\u0027s not here if it has been reviewed outside the ITF or even implemented outside the ITF and it\u0027s well working and I\u0027m not very happy about sending my ad saying yeah I reviewed the draft but yeah I second that especially the there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:17",
    "text": "are no responses in the mailing list what would also help is people to tell if they implemented it yeah because you know at least we know how widely deployed it is so it almost countess mess as it reviews so okay Kenny on Jabba has just said he will review it again okay good so Michael is that the last version I mean the published version is that the one we have to review that the month you expect to be sent to the working of Lascaux or do you expect another version and if so when do you expect it to be published of them were expired actually so if they expired it would be really good too just refresh them to make sure that I mean doing working the + : expired draft this is not great okay just you know so the planning could be Michael that by meet April could you provide the version you expect the working group to review and from the working group can we have people that commit to review those to draft so I\u0027m wondering if I can ask people that commit to review to raise their hands in the room or say something on driver okay Mike okay so who is gonna review the draft can we have them okay one we get can two reviews can we have one more okay okay and if you know that were the people from Cal Connect that might be aware of this draft it would be good that they can provide whether it has been implemented or not so we expect to have at least three reviews so I hope that my plan is to send those to the isg to the ad by the end of April is that a correct milestones I think so okay so now the new work so by end of April\u0027s that should be the only one remaining about an hour least yes calendar and we will have a presentation right now okay so here it doesn\u0027t work you just sickly and Donald is gonna have much [Applause] fucking I am Robert Stepanek fastly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:20",
    "text": "lights so cheese calendar as as stanga has pointed out newly adopted a couple of months ago the version in the agenda was written as zero but the latest version is version 2 which we submitted shortly before the final ITF 101 deadline yeah I think what let\u0027s see okay all right thanks so as I said any discussions around latest version 2 which is some data tracker there is a bullet that\u0027s it fullscreen so maybe I was thinking three outlets on each slide so I think you\u0027re fine okay okay so Jays calendar the what are the goals chase Canada attempts to define a new calendar in data format and exchange format using I Jason when someone thinks about calendaring and Jason typically RFC is 7265 comes to mind with use Jake L which was the initial attempt to represent I can in the data in Jason in contrast to this to the Jake an RFC with GES calendar we are both working on defining new semantics and a new representation for for calendaring data so it\u0027s a broader in scope in that respect the goal is are to define types for calendar events tasks and groups with groups being a small wrapper around tasks and events notably what isn\u0027t here what is defined in ieee calendar is be eternal we deliberately took that out of scopes in the sins in in our experience it\u0027s not very well supported anyway and it\u0027s not actually much related to calendaring data in a more narrow sense the goal is to use it as an alternative to AI calendar which means that we are deliberately not restricting ourselves to the current semantics of the icon of the data data model of course we are aiming at a very large useful overlap in semantics but we also took the liberty "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:22",
    "text": "to omit parts or add new semantics very appropriate next slide please so what is the status this has been worked on a couple of years already now for quite some time as an informer RFC now that we got it opted by calyx we got feedback from both ITF and Cal Connect members could you please scroll a little bit more so there are a couple of implementations of variants of the earlier RFC proposes flying around one of them and the most recent in my understanding is the implementation in the open-source iris I met project there are other vendors using earlier variants of this RFC proposal in their products and was it fast mail we are using a production earlier variant of the proposed data model so next slide please so in terms of the of the RFC we are quite confident following the review feedback that we got over the last years that we are we are covering most of the ground there are probably still a few changes coming and following this ITF meeting I will upload a new RFC draft based on the latest experience of bringing Cyrus I map up to the latest spec I don\u0027t foresee any big changes nevertheless of course if there are any there is any feedback big or small we will be very very happy to receive input on that one so we deliberately asked - for a feedback on this latest draft version anthem hopefully we can manage to get this to last call before the next ITF committee that\u0027s it from eyesight so thank you for presentation so my understanding is that it\u0027s pretty much implemented well we had do have a lot of experience on that one but it does not appear on the mailing list that\u0027s a key issue we have so what I\u0027m asking is that anyone that has an implementation and that I agree with aspect says plus one we we got an implementation eventually provide a description of that implementation a link to that and say whether they agree or not with a spec the thing I would and so since we have those implementations it\u0027s a good starting point but I want that to be it\u0027s not an extension so we need to have that properly done so I\u0027d like also to have some ITF review on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:26",
    "text": "that draft especially it adjacent part I think that\u0027s the only thing that could be discussed somehow so I think that\u0027s something we should start now as I understand that the draft is pretty major just a quick comment as AG remind me and send me a reminder our ask art art Directorate as Jason experience to have a look at this okay right so this is something I can do on my side so I will do that as soon as possible and we need additional review so I think the document is my understanding is that it\u0027s pretty stable it\u0027s not going too well we do not expect major change from the current version to the working of last goal so what do we need now is to have confirmation from the ITF perspective that everything is well structured and okay and then we need also I mean the the vendors experience saying yeah we have implemented it we agree with the spec on the milling so that we quite confident that we\u0027re throwing something that is they\u0027re not going to be discussed for the next 20 years because correcting bugs and so on so that\u0027s my front Gondwana I have written an independent an independent implementation - the one that Roberts done so Roberts written the C implementation of written and implementation in Perl of not quite up today with the spec and I will certainly do that before I send my final review through but I have that running in the gem a proxy code and it works correctly with a client that\u0027s been written for it um and Neil has written a client for okay I said it library as well yeah so so yeah please indicate those and I mean if that\u0027s not open source if it\u0027s open source put the link to that yeah because we have a code stand thing so I\u0027d like to have the mapping between the this RFC and the codes if it\u0027s not open source provide the necessary details so I can also feel the code stamp thing and and so people are aware of that and I think that would be helpful any information that we we\u0027ve met some interoperability test would be helpful and also give us a view on the mailing list of what has been discussed on the Cal connect community because that\u0027s also important for us okay probably one more thing to add here that as we are using the iCal and the data format for storage of calendar and data in Syrus i\u0027ma we have a working but all we have a working use case for translating between these four two formats and there is also discussion with the lip I Kelsey library the open source the open source iCal library written in C in my opinion that we integrate the chaise calendar translation so that would benefit other implementers to translate between these "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:26",
    "text": "two formats back and forth I have to say it\u0027s it\u0027s in on edge cases it\u0027s the lost the translation but that salaries can you change semantics okay so thanks good for me I think we have a plan I\u0027m asking do we have people I mean the draft was very supported for adoption so what I\u0027m I would like is that all these people that supported the adoption now provide their feedbacks that\u0027s that would be my message any feedback do you agree or not that food of you would be preferred but even knowing that you know they happy with it they implemented it here is a link - Wow implementation or here\u0027s information it would be useful yeah and I think that\u0027s the only thing we\u0027re waiting to send it to working group last goal who is G so I think it\u0027s well we should it\u0027s not it\u0027s not the hard work is being done so now we should not delay it more okay so thank you I don\u0027t know if there are any other business we should possibly I would like to put him on the spot if he\u0027s happy to talk about this I can are you happy to talk about liaison with Cal Connect if you don\u0027t want to talk about it that\u0027s fine I just I\u0027m not sure I\u0027m prepared to where did the did you receive the email that the Ron had put together or no yes I did what do you expect I suppose with York I\u0027ll connect hat on what do you expect ITF site and me to do back I think the the the main point is that the large majority of the people that are in the calendaring space do a lot of the work within Cal Connect and we\u0027re not looking to necessarily fast-track things through the ITF because we the ITF brings valuable reviews to the table but we\u0027re looking for a tighter integration where we can maybe speed up the process of moving where products out of Cal connect through the review process and into our RFC format I guess that\u0027d be the one liner right would you like me as a area director to try to find a person who can be liaison to call connect I mean there are sort of two paths straight there is a possible procedural stuff with what IB needs to do on their end or not you know depending what they decide to do which is I cannot control but there is also "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:26",
    "text": "question is if there is official liaison you know who the person should be and I think you suggested the person but I haven\u0027t talked to him yet yeah I guess all the other then you want your habit of you know I\u0027m sorry to put you on the clock you\u0027re talking about having a liaison from IETF back and the Cal Connect as opposed to from Cal Connect in IETF we talk in one person or two people actually I don\u0027t now maybe the same person can do both ways to be honest I have I don\u0027t have much experience with creating new layer zones I only dealt with existing ones this is very so I do I am the liaison from IETF to mob and I actually serve in both directions not officially but in fact that\u0027s how it works the that they don\u0027t have any particular need to send anybody as a liaison the IETF because I move information in both directions the traditional thing that a liaison does is that if I\u0027m if I\u0027m really a Zhaan to nog I would make sure the IETF learns about things that happen in MOG they need to know about and their liaison would pull the other way so it\u0027s a pull thing but Ken would be a perfect person to just be the liaison in both directions if he was willing to do that sure question do you know how much process needs to be done with IAB - the only processes that you need to ask the IAB to do it in my case with mod back in Lisa do sales time Lisa Lisa asked the IAB to create a liaison to Marg and suggested me as the person and they deliberated for about seven milliseconds and then did it and do then they assign a liaison Shepherd for you and that\u0027s it all right so - full follow up questions so we don\u0027t need to publish in your of CO and all right okay that\u0027s good because RFC is quite you know we have templates you know liaison to all I through Polly or ITU but this is just a lot of process toughest surely we don\u0027t want to those are four major liaison relationships that have political aspects and lots of work behind them and this is going to be small you know we\u0027re talking about one working group that cares maybe two so this it\u0027s small potatoes you think you can so I\u0027ll try to talk to IB in particular that hottie I bitch "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:28",
    "text": "here this week and see what we can do because the reason why erases this would actually hopefully help with getting information back and forth and getting more review so it is you know for somebody in I didn\u0027t well idea world how connect people should just participate directly on ITF mailing this it\u0027s an open a mailing list and they should just post comments here let\u0027s try to do this before I\u0027m sure buddy had struggles while he was Area Director with this working group as well but even if we can have a single person proxying from other people and you know combining comments and sending them as a badge I think this would be still better than nothing right yeah so that that\u0027s the thing with how it works with MOG I talked to them there about you you guys should bring your work here I talked to them about we have working groups in the IETF that you should be paying attention to please go there and participate in them there\u0027s no I\u0027m not lobbying liaison statements back and forth which would be kind of silly to send myself a liaison statement but so I don\u0027t think we\u0027re ever going to have formal liaison statements in this relationship it would just be Ken or whoever saying I think this work is ready to bring to the IETF now we should do it sooner rather than later which is the main issue that we have that we get stuff too late and I think there probably be very little that you need to pull in the other direction but IETF is working on this Cal Cal connect you ought to know about it it\u0027s probably going to be fairly minimal yeah yeah because we\u0027re one thing is for us to be able to move forward the documents so have an understanding and how much it has been discussed and but that\u0027s but the other thing is that if we have finalized document then I mean the the margin for changing is becoming very narrow and we can also be in deadlock situation so that\u0027s that\u0027s what we would like to avoid so as soon as possible it would be good that even though all the work is not being made publicly I mean if we have an old version that\u0027s maybe something we can work in yeah yes before it says that\u0027s the issue of saying saying to Falcon Act I am saying to Cal Kinect that this work is mature enough let\u0027s get it into the IETF while they can still help us get it and then the other direction the IETF stock ument is ready for working group last call Cal connect people you please review it also and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:28",
    "text": "post your reviews to the Calix mailing list so that that would be mostly what the flow would be yeah that\u0027s a and I well that\u0027s something important for I mean the ongoing process of the work you Kenny\u0027s in the least I\u0027m giving yeah I\u0027ve been doing my best to get the Calcutta members to do exactly what Woodberry suggested that one impediment that I see be running into is some of the Cal connect members especially some of the larger vendors and you could probably guess who I\u0027m talking about our leery of posting their acceptance of certain things on a public mailing list because they fear that it\u0027s it\u0027s leaking out what they\u0027re currently working on and I\u0027m not sure how to get around that barrier I guess the only thing I would suggest for that is to tell them that it\u0027s it\u0027s certainly very clear to everybody who works in the IETF that your review of a document is your personal technical review of what\u0027s there and not any commitment from your company to implement it and if you know if you say that often enough maybe they\u0027ll get it yeah we\u0027ve been saying that and for hopefully it gets through it was a lot easier with our friend of colleague Cyrus taboo now that he\u0027s not and calendaring some of the the new folks are leery as to what they can okay today right with my AG hat on and if I want to be a bad cop if not if we will continue not to have any reviews and documents then what I should be doing as a director is closing the Working Group and send all of your documents to independent stream editor and then you will have to convince independent stream editor that they need to be published as RFC I\u0027m just saying you know this is this is an option and okay yeah and you know can I\u0027m not trying to be going with you I\u0027m just you know so to rephrase that in a manner that can be taken back to Cal connect the message is if you want the documents published in the ietf we have to have the reviews from you guys and if you don\u0027t if you\u0027re not willing to publish to post public reviews of these documents we don\u0027t have enough reviews to declare consensus and publish them understood and just leaving back to J\u0027s calendar real quick I do have commitments from two developers at a large vendor to review that draft and I\u0027m gonna stay on them hopefully they fall through burn gondwana just to answer they everyone in the IHF understands that you\u0027re just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:29",
    "text": "posting yourself that\u0027s not the audience that they\u0027re worried about they\u0027re worried about some tech news sites getting their hands on this public mailing list posting and plastering the front pages of tech news with big company is doing this in a way that they\u0027re not allowed to say and then it comes back to individual developer wrote this thing individual developer gets in very hot water through no fault of their own and story no fault of this process but because the tech media going to just do crap like that so we haven\u0027t seen that happen we people post reviews in the ietf all the time and their companies never get this showing up in the press I guess somebody could always preface their review with I have no idea whether my company will implement this or not but here are my technical comments on the content comment you can also this be sure to post from a personal email account not from a company email account right right get to get to gmail account or whatever okay right so just one or another comment on the independent stream is the stream for non IDF work so it\u0027s open to anyone but then it does not become standard its remain experimental experimental or informational correct and it\u0027s a longer process I mean I don\u0027t know if we can say longer that what we have now but it\u0027s hard to say whether the process is young or not you have to the way it works you talk directly to independent stream editor which is at the NFL he has a review panel he will have to find at least couple of reviewers who also reviewed himself and decide whether it\u0027s worth publishing the process might or might not be quick or longer I think it depends on the document but I think he would struggle with the same thing he requires at least two reviewers so he\u0027ll probably come back to me and say well do you know can you recommend the reviewers for this so the bars I\u0027ll give you slightly lower but it\u0027s still still a process you need to do well if you if you have to cover my standards track you have to do it here you know you can understand the structure independence 3 and there is no way around this enough keratin enough sticks okay right so any other questions then I think we can adjourn the meeting everyone signed the blue sheet yeah so I\u0027m waiting for the minutes and I will post everything and thank you for attending the meeting "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:32",
    "text": "thank you for the people online because I know for some of you it was pretty early in the morning okay thank you "
  }
]