[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "foreign getting better [Music] all right I'll try to keep it in mind then that's better all right thank you right so it is the top of the error I don't think we're going to have a gigantic contingent based on the doodle result um but thank you everybody for coming uh we will remind you that that even when we're dancing uh in between dance sessions that with the note well still applies um so please do um everybody understands and read all that because you had to do it in order to use the data tracker and you had to log in with the data tracker therefore you've read the note well um we will start off so we decided to organize things where we were going to talk about the dance templates first with Molly because uh it seemed like that was a good introduction to I think how the architectural document has been restructured um I will leave it to the proponents to talk about um what they are looking at the discussion today but I think they've done a lot of good work in the architectural docking and they're looking like for feedback so with that I'll turn it over to the proponents [Music] so Michael do you take that you got the slides uh did you want me to talk to them is that what you're saying no they wanted to start with a template backwards yes okay sure I can talk about the template"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "without consultants if you think it's the wrong ordering you are welcome to flip it this is a more of a laid back working group session so um no I think we can dance backwards that's fine yeah uh so let me see um asked to share my screen because we didn't make slides someone in the chairs have to respond there we go thank you um sorry why isn't it showing me the choice I want um so yeah there we go all right okay okay so uh we have created a repo um it's called ietf dance dancing template um I suggest adopting it as a document as soon as it's a little bit uh better shape um but it's never intended to be published and that's mostly I would say just to make it officials that we are allowed to spend uh agenda time on it um so uh it's got the usual stuff in it let me see is this actually uh I don't think it actually has anything in there no Okay so right now um the instructions that are the top about renaming the document I left those there um and there's some text in here which is wrong okay um so the intention is that this would be an empty document and it would have only a set of um a table of contents uh there um so and I can give you an example"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "of what we're talking about are you sharing a screen okay I don't see that okay you're not saying you might why don't you maybe you need to know I'm on the wrong that is my my problem I'll go back yeah you're on the wrong tab yep um so we created um move this to there yeah so we created this template I don't know I think originally back in 2011 or 12 in the role working group and um so it had all these questions to be answered if you're going to use roll for something and uh as you see most of those entries were empty with the idea that you were supposed to put some text here this section should detail what's going on so that was the idea and that would at least if you didn't have something to put there then the answer was why not right um and and so this document got replicated uh I think three or four times and uh in one case we were unable to do it for one applicability area and that actually was what created the six dish working group because we didn't have any answers so we created uh something a whole working group to answer the question um so that's the intention um and I need some help brainstorming you know the the questions that go into this park um I think it's stuff like um why why would uh who who would whose Zone would it go into if that makes sense um um what uh what would the TTL for that zone be um uh would there be DNS SEC um and if not why not um other other things would be uh you know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "explain why uh normal why why would why would you use not just use a straight TLS certificate from a CA um and Etc so that's the contents of certificates and yeah yeah what what and what goes in the certificate what gets verified if anything maybe nothing um especially naming of DNS entries yup and how do you name it yeah those are all good questions yeah so that's the kind of thing we're gonna intend to put in here and uh please go ahead Rick um what are you templating are you templing templating applications or are you templating um ways of identifying all sorts of users what what does the template okay let's take a helicopter view we we have the architecture document which is dancing in general right and we have a couple of documents on secure dancing that is the operations that we need to modify in the Taylor sunshake and so and now we're down to specifying protocol specific dances dancing with Dancing with SMTP dancing with oauth yeah so requirements on protocol implementations and documentation on the protocol so the template needs to have requirements what you need to document for a dance implementation okay so template instance will be about zip and another will be about HTTP for example we'll use the template exactly create a document about the same implementation uh yeah another on exactly yeah and and Rick I know you've had a lot of uh uh feedback on a lot of these things so um I I'm really looking forward to uh your collaboration on on getting the template right I actually think that we get the questions set of questions right then in many cases the set of answers"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "become obvious um as we as we go um and the questions that are hard to answer uh may actually be the points of contention uh where we actually do need a good answer and we do need to have a good conversation about that okay yeah um I offered to uh about input enough she said we first want to structure things apparently the point is now I'll dive in thanks okay fantastic are there any other questions about the template at this point yeah get one high level question for you guys um a lot of working groups have done templates that I've seen uh mine probably being one of the ones that has published more rfcs than anything else um I believe some some past specifications have put the template you know in an RFC often at the bottom in an appendix or something like that did you consider putting it at the bottom of the architecture why do you think it should be in an internet draft that is never published I don't think there's a right or wrong answer I'm just curious so I think that when it comes to doing something like a mime a mime registration which is really an activity that where you interact with Diana and then they take the results and stuff it in a database somewhere then I think that we just said put it at the bottom of the RFC say fill out this template send it in blah blah blah you're done uh that's great okay um or you put it as part of your existing RFC that explains other things so I think that's a different kind of a template than I think we're after here whereas this is kind of the idea is to make the different dancing uh documents similar answer the same kind of questions um and get some kind of um muscle memory maybe is the right answer uh you know uh ideally the ISD will be like oh that's another one of these"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "documents oh okay well I only carried about 0.4.7 in that template which always bothered me I'm gonna go skip right to it and oh yeah that's good well done this time great um and so that's I think part of the thing and and the role actually we sent some of the template the template out actually for review uh we got some weird reviews back because people didn't understand it was template template so we had to start over again um but uh the idea was if you were doing a Security review of this document what questions would you be asking and are the questions in this document the questions you would be asking or have we missed some and that was the idea of you know kind of preloading that review part so that we would always we would we would know whether we're going to pass a Security review because they've already told us what was going to matter or not questions or a transport review or a DNS op review that's our case okay so I'm going to step off the stage then okay so we'll be done with step one of the moonwalk dancing backwards and shift to the architecture document I think it's what you're saying so what's the conclusion here let me invest you asked the question um I I still think yeah I would love it Michael's idea of publishing this as a draft uh wouldn't stop the process on um getting architecture out but having it as an attachment to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "architecture would possibly block uh architecture well I don't know that it would block it but so that's up to the working group right we're proposing it as a as a question I think that the working group needs to specifically answer I'm fine doing it either way I actually Wonder having just reviewed A J map document for sector uh it was definitely a predefined kind of structure but I don't think that they have a template I think that was they just keep copying other stuff uh Schumer yeah so if I can express my preference um I I think it needs to be published somewhere right so it can't just exist as a draft that expires and disappear somewhere so either as an appendix to the architecture or published the templates draft separately why if the goal is to produce a bunch of rfcs why does the template have to get published uh so that individual application protocol developers can use something to write their RFC on right but otherwise how would they know I think that will be very confusing if we because it's going to just be a table of contents um okay so if I'm so Michael if I'm a new application protocol designer and I want to incorporate dance that's how would I know what set of uh architectural questions I need to answer do I just look at an example of a previous RFC uh and then just copy that and use that as a template you you could do that we assuming that we're going to publish a few of these uh then you could do that you could use it look at the SMTP one or whatever but when it came to actually writing it uh you could just go and clone the repo that we've created and start from there and I and I mean um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "have a little bit more uh um proposing Michael that there is a git repo that will always exist that you can clone to bootstrap your new yep applications yeah and and if and in the worst case you'll have to go back through you might you know GitHub explodes and and no one has a copy and it's we're living on Mars uh then you know you could go back and through the uh internet archives uh uh uh drafts uh archives and find them or as you say we could just take some existing published RFC and remove all the text from it and just have the headings right but I I assume the template will have instructions to the authors that won't yeah in published rfcs yes that that's the goal is that we would ask the questions and if there's details beyond the subject heading then yeah we would want to put something there I will okay good but Dan I guess a question from a different perspective would be like what would be the downsides of publishing it then uh the downside is that we would have a very strange conversation with the isg about why we're publishing an empty document and wasting their time and some people say that an RFC costs about fifty thousand dollars to publish um and why are we wasting all those resources Doug and then we're back to West's proposal to have it as an attachment I think uh that that's a matter of timing uh uh I I propose that we postpone that decision for now because if the requirements document is in a publishing state by the time we have an architecture in a publishing State and we may as well append it as an appendix and point to the GitHub repo for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "latest version but if I don't want to delay dance architecture because of this I'm okay with that if that's how it happens that I'm okay but I also agree I don't want to delay it yeah I suspected that because so my view is the I can't imagine the template will take that long um so the timing should probably work out I think that's a reasonable path forward we don't need to make the decision today also apparently it's not uh required it's not a set of strong requirements so there's no strict requirement for publishing it so that you can point to it so yeah if it's possible good and otherwise well not yeah yeah okay that that um I think it was schumann's point of it should be published somewhere if we expect people to follow it right in order to publish something and we want a standard look even if it doesn't need a normative reference to point to that template architecture you do want it findable and then the downside of an Internet draft is you know they do go to expired and which is to be expected but you know we need some way to say this is what you this is what you should use when publishing a new yeah that's one reason I suggest adopting it uh as an as a working group document even though we don't intend to publish it um so that it's easier more easily findable as this is the right thing to do um also the working group chairs can fire um the authors of the template and assign new ones and uh whatever hmm clever so they I'm trying to get us fired that's really what I want oh that was the secret plan Michael a secret plan if someone else will do it yeah do we have any agreement here I think we have that we postponed the decision we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "have two ways forward on how to handle the template I will come back later to it go ahead and do that I don't think anybody's objecting to that and that sounds like okay then let's move on to architecture I mean currently we have three work group documents we have the architecture and we have Last Call on two of the TLs related documents uh are going to focus on architecture and uh Michael and I have been working a lot and Sherman have participated now then uh with architecture documents so we think we're we moved it a much better State than in London uh one thing is that while Ash started working on this he collected all possible examples of protocol usage as he could find and just added it in there in order to gain attraction and luckily there are a lot of use cases for dance but the architecture document won't be an inventory list or a master list of all the use cases we want to focus on use cases that are interesting because there are they have different usages of dance maybe different naming spaces different ways of setting up communication and so on and I would like you all to consider this as we discuss that we're not trying to cover all use cases that will be in the uh documents on how to dance that we discussed just a few minutes ago using the template we have a couple issues that Michael and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "I suggest that we move out of architecture and say that if anyone wants to write on how to dance for these that's fine but we're we don't want as authors to spend any more time writing text on these uh I think they're part of the rest here so uh issue number six six uh in the GitHub issue tracker is os2 uh uh we're not sure if this is a use case that requires special attention uh and should be included in architecture what do you say who was the opponent of the oauth's case was that Ash as well and do we remember any specific details around that now I don't remember any I don't know where it came from and no I don't know oh two beautiful client names right the direction I want to go as well and the architecture document at this point is very strict about DNS names which does not involve a client identity um I mean I I will be reading the document with this in mind so there might be points coming up that also make sense for oauth2 that's what I'm saying yeah yeah but currently no one seems to be right now stepping forward and saying anything else here I I would suggest for these items that you're bringing forward of you know wanting to remove is that you need to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "specifically look for volunteers that uh believe it should stay in the document and are willing to write text and if you don't get any then we remove it right yep yeah it sounds like we have a volunteer Rick to look at that use case right so we'll keep the issue in the tracker and if Rick returns with some ideas on text then we're good yeah although I won't look specifically at all do them but just the general client's domain name uh situation so it's not as specific as this point says okay is that okay yeah if if it turns out to be different from the rest yes good so uh os2 I don't hear anyone stepping forward saying yay that's a very special use case and it's going to change dancing forever so it doesn't mean that it will be excluded from dance for all time if someone used a template and writes those two that's fine but uh it's a matter of not blocking architecture number seven DNS over TLS Authentication is this a use case that's different from any other use cases we have I think it depends on what you mean here are you talking about uh TLS client authentication for DNS over TLS or it's client authentication dance yeah yeah right uh so I think uh is uh I see uh oh Woody is here oh hey Bill Woodcock is here I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "he had proposed a use case for doing Dane client authentication for DNS privacy I don't know if that's still a a use case that is being contemplated but that may be why it's there I don't know if Bill wants to say something about this I think the other question is is it unique compared to other uses so I don't see girls speaking I was going to call him out too if nobody else did um can you go over and sorry I I was telling Joey in my side chat that I am sleepy I didn't sleep well last night and um why does it matter so much if it's Unique compared to other use cases how does that affect whether it goes into the architecture document or not well architecture should cover the the usages we have now and give examples but for instance I mean sip client authentication is very similar to SMTP or anyone else it's an email address stall address so we don't have to cover all of those email address if we cover one what we're couldn't ask for the rest but if this is using a very special identity in the uh client certificate that should have a very special strange DNS record that you find by using a a chain of SRV records and not the records for some reason then it's a very different use case yeah so in that case it might be worth mentioning highlighting that difference in the architecture but the specific details wouldn't they be punted to a separate application specific document that follows the template and produces its own document okay my proposal in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "ticket is that we'll mention this as a future use case and just keep the ticket in the backlog for future work yeah sounds good okay done I'll make a note here bye next storytellis SMTP it's mentioned in the text yeah anyone wanting to write something is it yes there are people who want to write to his Victor Duchovny with us today um he is definitely he has told me that he's definitely definitely going to implement uh the dance client authentication piece in SMTP transport so he is the original proponent of that and uh it is a a valid use case the question is again doesn't need to be specifically mentioned in the arc document or so is this a detail in a separate document yeah in the ticket I propose a text along the lines of quote SMTP Services both serve to server using SMTP and client to server using submission can benefit from dance Clan client authentication Dot is that yeah enough I think that sounds reasonable to me to me as well I was also wondering if this if this will be a use case for the client and indeed especially for submission yeah yeah that's a good question on your tax direct uh you you you listen"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:04",
    "text": "to use cases MTH MTA and client to employee so I just made a more simple sentence of it what you wrote yeah it makes absolute sense thanks okay then we had something I I don't even know what x-orf is but I quoted a text that is in the draft at this point in ticket number 14. where did this come from Michael you had some comments here in the tracker saying mod situation is similar to Tiki 13. and that the key science which is Jose cosei object Security in that the case science a mod file may need to re retrieved from DNS there's something wrong in this sentence um yeah maybe there's a typo in the sentence but the the idea is that um when you're validating a mud file uh you might need to know how to get the key that was used to sign it uh mud doesn't really have a way of saying that um and so that actually might be a situation where yeah there's some magic record um an SRV or something else that tells you how to find it based upon the URL that you're looking at uh we would do them that would go I think that goes somehow that's a dancing document um but I think that the important thing from the Opera from the architecture"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "point of view is that it's um it's not a TLS use um and so it has a different Behavior I don't know anything about x-arf so I don't even know what it is uh in the bug tracker we assign this to Ash in December 19th and he haven't reacted to GitHub males so I assume he's not interested would I quickly found this it's a standard way of reporting uh abuse reports and ex-official transport for it yep but it doesn't sound like this is something that should block publication we haven't got any authors stepping forward so yeah also it's not it's not Dane is it it's not tea less therefore it's not Dane no it's document signing but yeah yeah yeah yeah you have a pointer so my proposal is that we remove this text and keep it some sort of back backlog ticket for future work but we remove it the text from the draft yeah it seems like there's consensus around that I was just thinking uh it probably would be good maybe in the architecture document repo or a brand new repo to create a future items list where you can at least document where these were and point to the issue it's closed uh we we label them as future work in the issue tracker for architecture right now okay so we can possibly do that later okay and then terminology"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "um we have some in the document but the question is do we need more there was a document there about we could point to somewhere what was the normal process here fulfilling terminology do we need a group of people reading and asking for explanational terms I think the normal procedure I mean some protocols including DNS rate have now published I think three terminology rfcs entirely separate I don't think you guys need that right uh no you need to define the terminology that might be unique to talking about Dane and dancing in our in our in the architecture document I suspect it's a few things and I don't think it needs to be updated very much so um I think that more applies to the other documents uh the two in the where we add stuff uh to the TLs protocol and we can make sure that we are coordinated with those two and have the same terminology but otherwise I think we're pretty in pretty good shape yeah I think we're an architecture document it would be good to pull in all terminology from the other you know documents at that point yeah as well as anybody reviewing it saying I didn't understand this section what do you mean by this word because we didn't realize it should be in the terminology and then you can add it so unless Shimon uh violently start screaming I'll steal from those two documents and include no screaming go away go for it thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:09",
    "text": "so I'm making a note to make sure architecture has all the terminology definitions from the other working group documents on that ticket and as a starting point then we'll see in the reviews and in the process if we need to add anything else we're making great progress here I think that was all on architecture and then I just had a template and we discussed that and we're gonna start mailing out to people to help us write those and then I had the same pictures in London time to code yay I think that's it so good progress but Rick you have some reading to do and come back to us but uh other than that I think we we have the feedback we need to update architecture document and publish a new version okay I'm glad you guys have the feedback that you're you have been looking for um with that is there anybody else that wants to bring up other things related to dancing at all right uh hearing none Joey and I did request a dance session for itf116 and we will um we requested one hour I suspect given the fact that we just burnt 35 minutes uh one hour and 116 should be fine"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "although with a bigger audience we'll get more comments hopefully um if uh you know we should also start putting an agenda together for that as well um thank you to Joey for putting the one together for today and so please do let us know especially as that time gets closer what you want uh time wise and you know to talk about why is I assume the architecture document will be on there yeah for example an update from Rick update from Rick and hopefully uh we can have a little progress on the requirements template and if I look in my crystal ball and my wish list maybe at least starting point of an implementation document based on the template we have Laura one uh where we have a lot of text that we removed from architecture but I think fits nicely into a template uh uh but we also have Rick and SMTP and some other protocols waiting yeah and also hopefully some feedback on the templates yeah I think you just mentioned that right but yeah but yes that would be very nice and if we can around that time have architecture in the state so we can issue a working group last call would be nice to have all documents progressing agreed I would argue that because there will be a lot more people on the room that you should expect to to do another introduction of what the temple document is and you know what its purpose is because not everybody will have limited this meeting yeah Michael is preparing a song and dance that will introduce this metaphysically foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "of course he is it sounds perfect no reaction yeah make sure the meeting Note Taker records that uh behind my mute there we go yes I'm doing that I remember your dancing trousers in London so yeah you know characters written down that Michael will dance publicly during the ITF it I say when this working group Crow closes we hold a karaoke party that's probably the right thing to do it's also good I also like singing all right sounds like the promise was I've never done karaoke before it would be a scary promise um okay so I think we are going to conclude unless anybody has last minute topics to bring up Joey you have nope just to thank everybody for joining us today and I'm looking forward to meeting with all of you at the next session thank you to the shares for organizing this push this into it so thank you all right thanks everybody we'll close out the session then thank you bye great bye"
  }
]
