[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:14",
    "text": "We still have folks coming in Let's just give one or two minutes and otherwise we still have folks coming in, let's just give one or two minutes and otherwise we'll start Andrew, why are you taking slight control? Thank you Thank you I've asked you the slide control Yeah I received it Confirmed I guess we can stop Okay I don't have a full view on the room but it feels that there aren't so many people yeah beverages you know how it is Yeah, okay, hello everyone this is the past computation element working group session at iETF 12 out out So, let's hear me Yeah, hi, Chang Nice, thank you Okay, let's start"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "by the usual not well. We are just there already. I'm not even Friday on my side. So you should be familiar with that So anything you say within the ATF, I expect to stop IPR policies, so please make sure you are aware of them. There are a couple of simple rules rules Make sure that in case you run familiar already you are abiding by the rules within the ATF. Nothing new there, but important one render. Other not well we are a group of technical people working in standardization and providing specific technical specifications We are supposed to work in respect to manner. So in case you feel you are you witness someone who may not be treated well or even harassed, there are people beyond the chairs on IEDE who may help on May handle the situation So in case you feel there are situations in this you in this kind of this kind, feel free to contact the Humboldt's team. They're there exactly for the camera of this kind of situation and they'll be helpful to provide you any guidance in case it's need as usual the meeting is using METECO I'm myself using it right now The session is recorded as well, so make sure that you use"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "on your mic only when requested to do it to avoid any scrumble audios When you come at the mic, at the meeting room also try to state your name, that will be particularly useful for Hamru who is taking care of the meeting notes and minutes so if you want to give a hand to Handru, here is the link visual typical one, based on it up a like And as a reminder, on the queue, my name there's an app to suppose to click on either the light one on your mobile phone or the full one in your laptop, whether you're want to join the crew, the queue, room or from mythical, please make sure you are using the raise your hand button to make sure you are properly entering the queue and the Draveni will give the floor to people on a step-by-step basis That's a chat also on Zulip, which is tunaled on medical so feel free to use it along the station if you feel like it Beyond the Meteor, today, the usual reminder, please try to make sure you discuss the technical documents and especially the working document using the mailing list. We regard to see people discussing technical topics in interesting thread, but not copying the PC list at each thread so try to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:03",
    "text": "tunnel on the include the PC magnetist on your technical discussion That's the way the chair we use to gouge the consensus and the traction on the given work So this is very useful and we are an open community so everyone in the working group should be able to follow and catch up with the technique discussion on any worker item We have a couple of tools online including the PC Wiki on the PC GitHub So if you want to follow up on some of the progress beyond the or between the work group status during the meeting, you have everything in the wiki and the GitHub also for Document Edition if you feel like it, we have DC Working Group GitHub GitHub Reminder also on the existing early point allocation procedure I guess that many people are already familiar with it because we have regular requests on early codpont allocation so I are already familiar with it because we have regular requests on her liquid pointi location so I'm quite confident that now people are aware of this option for progressing the work and progressing implementations So the agenda has shared by as prepared and shared a couple of weeks ago So I hope no one intends to bash anything I don't see anyone to lean to you So let's proceed with the working group style status So the document that are beyond the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "working group, we don't have any new RFCs since the previous IETF meeting, but we have three in the RFC edition of Q, so we can hope that throughout them will be published as RFCs before the next IETF meeting. We are four with the IESE IESG the IESG so at different stage of reviews they are progressing as well so those will probably move forward in the future so there's a let's say that from the working perspective, we are pushing regularly our work towards the age which is quite good we have many active working group items, and at least we managed to close and progress some towards the AG on the regular basis process. Harley cut point allocation. So that it seems that the working group is aware of the process to request help cut point allocation because we have a bunch of documents that have early allocation code points and we even have two of them that have two batches of code points one that a set that has was allocated quite early in the process on another section set that was requested later in the life of the work items so at these two of them are in this situation so it's quite interesting to see that it's a clue that implementations are progressing and including more on more feature on the requesting the Isociety platform for implementing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "all the feature. It's also a good sign on the maturity of the associated work and we hope that those documents will be able to reach the IESG in a very near future as well well Other matters, we don't have any new era we have legends coming from the ITUT. One was received highly this week so Deborah has a lesion and is in charge of preparing the response So no specific action on our side, usually just share the progressing work in progress in the PC working group and include them in the list of the point in working groups to produce a collective response to the IT UT 15 and make them aware of the work which is reached a material level on us side So let's move to the detailed working group ID statute Drive will take back to the floor Let me use this, the screen there is kind of time So hi, I'll just go over quickly the status of various different uh documents working group documents if any of the authors wants to come and clarify, please come. If even if as a participant, you have any concerns with any of the documents, let's use this time to have a discussion So let me go over quickly We'll start with documents that are past working group last call. We had the PSEP color this time to have a discussion. So let me go over quickly. We'll start with documents that are past working group last call. We had the piece of color document that we did working with last call. There were a bunch of comments that were received These are currently not handled. I had a conversation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "with the authors. The authors have promised that they would be coming up with an update very soon. So thanks request everyone to like, you know, let's progress these working group last comments timely, and thanks Andrew for shepherding this document the next one is a stateful PC vendor. We recently closed the working group last call thanks authors to actually updating the document and handling all the comments that we have received in the working group last call. I would be shepherding this document and I will start my shepherd review and other handling very, very soon on this. Thanks Thanks, everyone who commented on this document Documents which are nearing working group last call, we had a document on flexible grid. The authors have made an update They did a good cleanup, added an implementation section. There is still some pending comments from past and cleanup needed. The authors have to that they are working on it so we are looking forward for the next update. Moment that happens, I think we will be programmed this document next authors of SR by bidirectional path have told us that they are at this document is ready and we can progress this there is nothing blocking this work so if any have told us that this document is ready and we can progress this. There is nothing blocking this work. So if anybody has any comments or issues with this document, now is your time to like no address it before we reach working with last calls all authors are here. If you have any concerns, let's resolve this. The other two documents, the state sync and sedalgo is on the agenda so we will discuss it then with respect to PCCC there was an update mostly editorial, in my view it is ready for getting ready for working last call If folks have concerns, now it's a good time too raise it Now coming to the rest of the working group IDs"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "we have a document that we discussed quite a bit in the past which is the PC multi-path document We need to progress this technically also because we have an INA early code pointer location expiry coming in and we want to like you know of course we can ask the IESG to give us an extension but let's target it this document is important we know there are implementations So I request the authors to handle the comments that we have already received. They are still not handled when it was presented in the last IETF meeting in 116 So let's get with it If there is confusion, let's use the mailing list to resolve it. And some of the comments were very fundamental whether some of the things beyond SR policy architecture, should it be in the document? or should it be handled in a separate document let's resolve those things pretty quickly. So that's a request to the working group authors as well as the rest of the working group to prioritize this work. We have SR part segment. This has no update, but it is still depending on some documents I think SS MPLS path segment has made progress. There is also SRV6 part segment, so this still has dependencies. So let's spring resolve those. Then we can take this document up. It's actually dependent on the PCC document as well. So we need to progress the document before this before we come to this one we had an update for Interdomain. So thanks to authors for doing it It's a bit substantial update They added a new association, they added new notification between PCs, so they are handling some of the things that were raised in the last time this was presented. So request the working group to review and give feedback to Oliver and Julian who are working on this document. We have SR SRP2MP policy on the agenda. There's a request from the authors to also do the early"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "INA allocation. We will start on it soon With respect to PSEP L2 flow spec, the document only has minor updates. It's basically also pending on IDR changes on flow spec V2, so low priority as of now PathMTO, the good thing is that Spring has adopted the associated document, so that's pretty good PathM2, otherwise, our document in PSEP is pretty straightforward, is just if defines a new metric type, and we have to just do this in tandem with how the spring document is progressing IFIT, I believe this document now is nearing working group last call. So if there is any comments, I think we can move this up There has not been an update the associated documents in other working groups are making progress. So if there are any thoughts on that, please let us know with respect to s rv6 yang uh it was updated, but there is an error that you will see the error is because of imported document from the spring So we have written to the spring authors that we please make an update quickly as this is all the documents that are importing this one is currently failing so the spring. So we have written to the spring authors that please make an update quickly, as this is all the documents that are importing this one is currently failing. So, and it's a minor issue with respect to the code begin and code ends and that's why the model is not being exported out and it's causing compilation issues for everyone else SRV6 and BRTE have no updates. In fact, BRTE has been expired. Authors try to push chairs to adopt documents and call for adoption, and then once it's done, it's document expired that doesn't look good come keep work on your document even after adoption just a reminder so this is the only working group document that's in expires state. Please refresh it and keep progressing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "We have some newer documents, which are the circuit style one and entropy layer one. Again, only minor edits, but making progress Recently, we adopted PSEFLS document as an experimental They were commenced during adoptions, which were handled, which is good. We also adopted control ID space. There were substantial comments, and I think the authors will discuss that on the agenda today. So it's good to see a lot of working group documents on the agenda and so that we can make good progress on this during the meeting today This is our queue. As I said, if you have new information and you want to prioritize, please reach out to chairs. The wiki is also open. Give us the reason why your documents needs to be prioritized but we have a queue and we keep adding to it but let's we are progressing as you've seen pushing documents out to the 80s as well as get we have a queue and we keep adding to it but let's we are progressing as you've seen pushing documents out to the 80s as well as getting more and more documents between each cycle adopted as well but that's our cue as of now cheng do you have a question no again again up to you i can go up to you yeah no i think uh have just one more slide. Go ahead Well, I just want to say that thank you so much for your help on a lot of drafts, yeah And we will have a new ARC which is RC 96 and 0 very soon, right, which is about the PCP as of the six extension right and i will follow up the priority of the document to handle the rest documents, at least the four or five working group documents. So it would take some time, but don't worry, I will handle it very soon Yeah, yeah, don't worry okay thanks thank you yeah Okay, so the final side that I have is some of the discussions that we have been having on our mailing list Some of them requires a little timely action so I just wanted to give time to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "folks in the room or online if they have any time thoughts that they want to share on these. The first one which came based on the AD review, of a review document where we have some of our older registries which are IETF review i think around the segment routing time we started moving towards some registries on standard action When we move our registry to standard action, what would happen is any of our expectations documents that PCF wants to use will not be able to use those registries. And that's will force us to do a only documents in the standards track and we don't want to do that we have various documents like PSEP LS which we recently adopted as well as some documents which meets the correct requirement as an experiment work rather than a full standard So to do that, this document simply goes back to the roots and makes all our PCF registries as IETF review There is a question that whether we should do it blanket to all or should be do selectively. And the documents gives us just a justification as well. There are past examples as well that how we handle the issue when we had less number of flags how we created an extended LSP flag quickly. So we have handled those cases And I think irrespective of whether it is standard track or IETF review, we will be able to handle it in this same way so right now we aim for a blanket update, but if anybody has any thoughts, please reach up standards track or IETF review, we will be able to handle it in the same way. So right now we aim for a blanket update, but if anybody has any thoughts, please reach out. Even we can talk about it right now as. Okay but we want to progress this quickly and I'm would request julian to see i'm the author so i would request julian to consider if this document can be fast-tracked to handle pretty quickly, since we would also have the document which is in the John's queue right now it will depend upon us progressing this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "So we can maybe fast-track this adopted quickly, for instance yeah andrew uh andrew stone um yeah I think it's probably fine. I just go ahead and blanket all the registries because I took a look at them. There's not really that many that only have like, a handful of bits. And then, like you mentioned, we have that process in place anyways. So if somebody does want to come in with something experimental and they're trying to steal very rare bits well, we can kind of block it at that point and ask for a formal standard to basically get it extended. So sounds good to me thanks Andrew uh second one that we have is the document from Adrian which says that some of our key registries like PSEF messages, PSEF objects and PSEP TLV these three have set of code points allocated for experimental range We don't do that for error types So should we do it? It's most of our extensions when we do experiments, error types are pretty common to add Adrian takes a conservative approach where he says that let's just do it for error types I put a question that whether should we do it for error value as well, because that's how, if you look at how usually people come up with new errors, they try to club it into the existing error types that already exist, and it will make it easier when we move from error from experimental to standards to keep it in the same error type so that was my intention to ask that question this didn't get that much feedback on the mailing list. So if people have thoughts, reach out to the mailing list, give us feedback, reach out to Adrian, reach out to me. And we want to see what the working group thinks about this as well. There was one more proposal from Tom during an earlier allocation request asking that the final value in our registry, like for instance, if it is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "saying 0 to 255, should we mark 255 as reserved, right now 255 sometimes is unassigned, I asked the INA. INA says that there is not no unified best practices though it's not wrong to reserve it We don't, it's nothing wrong, but do we want to do? it only for one registry? Do we want to do it across? so we want to get more feedback on this and maybe even this could be something that could be discussed across registries rather than just having a policy per se only for PSEP So we have kept it open for now, more feedback here and of course we can get some inputs from our ADs as well on whether this needs broader discussion or not. And that's it. That was the last night any feedback anything any words Hi, Samuel Let me pass you. Let me pass your side control control I have it. Thank you Hi all, I'm samuel weiler from Cisco. I'll be present draft about as an algorithm in peace on behalf of Outpers or beta route So I presented it a few times already but at least to summarize what is this draw developed it has three major parts. This is an extension for a encoding of as an algorithm of C2 least to summarize what is this is there are developed. It has three major parts. This is an extension for an encoding of as an algorithm of sit in the arrow sub-object. So to be able to protect it between piece of years. Then the second part is about the as an algorithm constraint. So to be able to rest its seeds"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "used in the path connotation on P to specific Algo. And that third part is about defining the behavior of the flexibility path commutation on PISA. So there are this current all these algorithms which are listed so SPF straight SPF and Flex Algo So, the draw, I think I don't even if one of the drought versions were some submitted since then with mostly smaller changes done based on the comments. Thanks to all who provided it new metric types were introduced to be able to encode, accumulate method of parts computed based on the metric types included in Flaxalgo definition And clarification was done for a minimum dealing metric type which was already defined in the previous versions of the doubt Manageability and security sections were added mostly just inheriting rules from existing P-Sep and IGPRFCs We also wad it some explicit direction to IGP ANRF analysis for algorithm types So we don't have PSOP speculate registry for algorithm types and we are just in anything one from IGP And plus some minor content addressed One of the new videos in interviews which is introduced into the ground is bandwidth metric just to avoid any confusion, it is not same information as already covered in the existing PC bandwidth object, but bandwidth metric represents some of the bandwidth metrics, individually ring along the path So, for example, for flexible path computation, it must follow"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "the same rules as IGP, as already defined in IGP So for example, a link then with metric value is not advertised, then automatic a metric calculation will be done based on the object view the fourth global definition sub-teories So like the one or two mentioned here so the reference and then with results For non-flex algorithm computation, PC may have either local configuration which you'll define something similar as already defining in thought, or PC must follow the same procedures as already defined symmetric type so either fall back to some default values or use some hard-coded value The last one is the user defined metric. So basically complete range of the metric types from another to 255 We have introduced this metric range, which is same from point to point to point to multipoint Specifics for those metrics are more defined, so operator can use that fairly for example, completely separate metrics type, paraplegzalgo, meta type ranges in IGP and pieces are aligned to avoid any any complicated mapping. So same let's say, meta type 100 million 30 these encrovid is a piece of number 1 in 2020 And as you can see the example, we drew Mettaire 1 at 1 at 1.30. So we entropy. So if we have, for example, user define metake 118 and 30 insert, then it represents some of link metric metrics,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "link metrics, one and third entity at LTEZ-1GP Thanks and many comments are welcome I have a plan to update the draft with the code points from these new meta types when the code point allocation will be completed, when the process will be completed rather than that, then we will receive that problem comments any comments, anything, any questions? Any comments from the room? uh samuel did we had a chance to discuss with the LSR authors? Like getting a review from them would also be pretty good since especially the update that we have just made on the bandwidth thing? So I can, I can stand demote it um all that. I don't think that any study discussion happened at least i know there so yep we can definitely discuss with you. Yeah, I think it could be nice to just send a message CC the LSR working group and so that people are just aware that we have made this up update. Thanks for working on this I have also requested early allocations or sorry early review for routing direct trade and ops DR for this one and once these things can handle I hope we can move this document forward That would be good. Thank you thank you Any other comments from anybody? comment on anybody or any question no thanks for doing good thanks for keeping the working group mailing list engaged with all the updates that you're doing. Thanks No, probably, no. Thank you Come on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:05",
    "text": "Thank you All right, on the point to multiplying policy so I'm presenting on behalf of the co-artors and andrew alston well he's been extremely helpful So here where we are standing with the point to multi-point policy on different working groups One of the reasons that I put this a slide together is I want to make sure that if there is any comments on the PCE side we make these comments available ASAP rather than, you know, even in November or the next couple of IETF The reason for that is, as you can see, most of the draft have passed the last call and they're becoming RFC. And obviously, the overlay being the PCE or maybe I should say the underlay is the PCE, point to Multi-Point policy doesn't have an underlay. There is no IGP ISIS, OSPF, none of these stuff involved. So there is an overlay which is the NGMVPN, Draft 6540 I believe, that figures out where the root and the leaves are. And as an underlay, or overlay, whatever we want to call it, we are using PCE to program the replication segments throughout the tree. So PC is a major component of this and this is why, you know, we we are using PCE to program the replication segments throughout the tree. So PCE is a major component of this, and this is why we keep reminding every single IETF that please, please, if there are comments, bring it forward sooner than later, because again, multiple vendors are implementing the PCE and in November or next year, it's just going to be too late to change the implementation. So with that, said, when it comes to the replication, segment itself, it has become an RFC in a spring. So that was a model draft and that's good to go. The next part"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "so the replication segment is actually the forwarding information that is downloaded on the on the router itself So the next part is how do you attach? a point to multipoint policy to an next generation MVP and service? And that's the PIM draft that we have Obviously, you need to ping OEM this puppy end to end from the route to the lead So there is a PIN draft as well and that just passed the last call, and that's sitting in the PIM working group The overlay, as I explained, seems to be very as stable as there are multiple implementations, multiple renders that are implementing that, and that's in the best the MVP and EVPN draft The PCE is this one, which I think in November we are going to call for a last call i think it's sitting in a good state that the can take it forward and I just have a surprise who is going to shepherd it, a good surprise So hopefully that's going to go forward And then there are two other drafts that we haven't been working on them too much. One is the Yang Some of the vendors they can program this replication segment and the policy through CLI, like a static LSP So the yang comes into play. And then there is the BGP, SRTE, point, to multiply policy, another way of configuring the router as you guys know, then you need to work on the northbound so that's going to open up a can of forms. But that's the next thing that we're going to work on so with regard to this draft and i do apologize for the formatting here, the first thing that you got to understand is that when it comes to the capabilities, we did come up with a new optional TLV. And the reason for that is when it comes to the multicast state, you can have different OIF on different"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "data paths. So not every single data paths supports the same number of outgoing interface for a multicaster state. So that's one of the things that we are actually signaling in this capability And then the other thing is the number of instances, which I'll explain later on. But there is a new optional TLV for capabilities. So the next part is that when this tree becomes, disturbed, meaning that a fiber, gets cut how do we recover the tree? So there are two ways of doing it. Number one, for multicast, you do have global optimizes usually on the tree. So that's one way of doing it, but there are other ways that you can optimize the tree locally between the two routes by figuring out a bypass around it. So there is local optimization. Again, read the draft. It does explain all this stuff Another part is that obviously, we are reusing most of the concepts from Unicast with exception of some, which I explain. But one of the concepts that we are using is for recovery and that uses the multipat draft which is another good idea that, you know, why that should be moving through the working group But for backup, meaning that LFN LFA or fast reroute, we do use the multipat draft to create that backup ERO And one thing is that when it comes to multicast and ECMP, especially weighted ECMP, they don't go well half in hand. If you start spraying multicast packets they start arriving at the leaf at different times and then you get pixelization you're in the middle of your World Cup and then you don't see the goal, and then there's going to be riots in the street. So not a good strategy at all So that's one TLV that we are not going to be supported So one of the main differences, I guess"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "I'm bringing up between the unicast and the multicast is on the Unicast, you have the Canada Pats So if you want to do redundancy and resilience, multiple LSP's north and south you use the candidate path with different preference to actually create that backup resiliency. As I explained, on multi-chance there is another concept under the candidate path for global optimization, which we call it that backup resiliency. As I explained on multicasts, there is another concept under the candidate path for global optimization, which we call the path instance. So really, the path instance is the LSP of object, is the 3 LSP itself from the root to the leaf, and each candidate path can have two LSP objects under it One being your primary, and for whatever reason if you want to optimize that primary LSP, you know, the PCE can recalculate the tree and download the second path instance under the same candidate path to make sure that the do a make before break from your primary to the new, new calculated path instance and that's how your global optimization will work in these scenarios So that's one of the main differences between the multi- and the unicast that we introduced is path instances under the Canada back From the CCI, object point of view, again, we wanted to bring in the Flex Algo in the equation. So that's why we went with the CCI object that is already introduced into the PSEP extension PCE controller And again, the main reason was for bringing the algorithms tying a point to multipoint policy to a specific algorithm throughout the network. That was the main reason for that So we've been asking, again, the draft is to a point that we have all the TLVs and everything set up there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "There needs to be a cleanup. I know Drew brought that couple of time in, you know, I'm worried on that. I'm trying to get my head around some of these objects of stuff that you guys are using. So I'm definitely working on that I understand the importance of that. But the TLVs are done. We are asking for INA head around some of these object that stuff that you guys are using. So I'm definitely working on that. I understand the importance of that. But the TLVs are done. We are asking for an INA assignment. I already mentioned with regard to the suggestions, please read the draft, anything that, you know, you want to bring in we are all ears. And yeah next ITA for the one after that we are going to ask for last call for our all the authors that are on the draft. That's all I go. Any comments? Any questions? So you already have my comments so the earlier location we will start once we have an update. And even with the update, I think if the other updates are taking longer, we can just focus on cleaning up the INA part first And then we can start the earlier location process. I was asking just before the meeting, like, you know, assign and shepherd early since especially because you brought up this idea of that, like, you know, since this is your first document in the PCE, having somebody from the PC working group passing on that knowledge of how we do our BNFs and other things which are sort of unique to us would be useful. So I asked Andrew if I Andrew would be, want to be a shepherd for this document. Are there any concerns in the working group? for that for assigning andrew alston a shepherd? I see some hands going up all good That was a good news, by the way. Yeah, so thanks, Andrew for supporting and let's clean up and then we can progress this document thanks thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:11",
    "text": "Shank, oh hear you yes thank you so so this topic is about the controlled id extension draft next please okay i can control it yes you have the . Yeah the controlled ID extension draft. Next please. Okay, I can control it. Yes, you have the comment. Yeah. So basically I will introduce the background and what is about the draft uh roughly and then we will go our and what is about the draft roughly. And then we will go, we will discuss the issues received in the working Group Adoption Corps, and we do have mainly two concerns yeah and then we will have some like brief discussion of this kind of issues let's take a look up if we can get some consensus Yep yep so uh issues. Let's take a look if we can get some consensus. Yep. Yep. So this document mainly describes a magnetization for, you know, a PCC to inform the PC that what kind of the ID range that can be used by the PCE directly, right? So the use case will be the PCC can report a range of the ID space such as the M MPR's label space, or as a the PCC can report a range of the ID space, such as the MPRS label space, or SV6, a function ID space, something like that, to the PCE. So the PC can allocate some ID, I mean the controlled ID proactively to the PCC, right? So here we also list some use cases such as the Bidding seed allocation, the SR proactively to the PCC, right? So here we also list some use cases such as dividing seed allocation, the SRGB, SRLB, you know, information reporting something like that, and NGIB, LIB information"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "reporting, and allocation yeah So in the past, we used the open message to carry this kind of information from the PCC to the PCE, right? That is just quite straightforward idea but it turns out that that may be not the best solution in the working group adoption call so yes so next next page should be yeah, we need to have some discussion of the encoding design So right, right now we are phasing mainly to main issues. The first one is where should we encode the information? Is the open message? or other places? I don't know Yep. And another one is, once we make the decision of which message can be used to carry the information and what kind of format is the best design, right? Agent Farrow proposed another solution and I also i i i also propose another solution in the job draft already, so we can have some, you know, brief discussion regarding this And in the poll, that Drew raised in, you know, several weeks ago, we do receive some comments of which message or object is appropriate to gather information you can take a look at here. One is open message and then peace errors, object, and notification message, and maybe we can still you know, create a new object on new messages to achieve this or in the end we can combine some above options"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "into one single solution yeah But yeah, we do have, you know, online discussion right you can go other directly to review what's going on right there and you're welcome to not done anything you want, you comment, yourself solution, your preparation, something like that, yep And this page, shows the comparison of each, you know, encoding design option. The option one is that use the open message, and it is quite easy and straightforward, but the disadvantage is that when the session, when we need to update the information of the you know the controlled ID right, the range of control ID then we need to resent the new a new open message that it would cause the session you know, reset reset, something like that. So that is not what we want. It will also create a lot of of troubles. So, uh, honestly, for me right now, I don't really think this original solution is a good choice, right? lot of troubles. So honestly, for me right now, I don't really think this original solution is a good choice. And the option two is that we can reuse the mechanism in PC PCEPLS, right? Cause such as like we can use the S object just like the BGPRRS right? But I don't really think we should rely on this stage extension because I personally, I think PHP errors extension is a huge extension so it would cost us for you know long time so personally I don't really prefer this option and the third one is to use notification message it is quite easy to implement and it is quite easy to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "understood, right? And but the thing is that we it's strange to use the knowledge notification to report the initial information such as open, such as the information encoding in the open method or open object, right? So I also feel a little bit, you know, misuse of the notification that is also the feeling of, you know, from Doof And option four is that we can use some new PC object in PC report message but yeah you can see we also have some pros and coms, right? And the fifth option is we can define some new PCP message It is quite clean, but it seems to you know, to wait Yeah, too heavy, yeah, too heavy So, and the sixth option is that we can use the open message to report the initial setup of the controlled ID, right? to the PC, and then after that if we have any update modification, delete, deletion, something like that, we can use the notification message to report the update event from the PCC to PCE So by this way, we think the logic of using message or object can be appropriate So this option is preferred by Samuel Andrew, and me, right? So you're welcome to comment on this, which option is better, yep And the next step of this draft would be you know addressing the pending issue"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "and then and then seek for more reviews right that's it thank you So comments are welcome yep let's come back to this table Just one in the queue is Zafar. Yeah, Zafar welcome zaffar hi uh this is a zafar ali from Cisco So it made me think that are we doing the right thing. I mean, this is something from marriage plane is more suitable to do it for setting up this from the management plane. It looks to be this is feature creeping in PSEP. I know it's working with Rob but doesn't mean that like now then we're walking and we're handling this. It's Rob, but doesn't mean that like now then we're walking and we're handling this, it is clear that it was not designed the protocol was the design for such things and best is to just do solve this problem through the management plan plane Uh, Drew, you're next. Yeah, thanks, Julian In the notes page, we also had a section on what are the desired properties And I think it would be good to also talk about that a little bit. So I've just that open right now We said that most implementation would consider this contract ID space as static. So we want to know whether that true in more cases, how flexible it is are people changing this too often One of the key things we had was even if there is an addition because there could be like, you know, an expansion you are in, enhancing things, but are you going to go and change the previously? allocated blocks that you have given control? to PC because that will be a huge change and it will have a huge impact on the existing things itself? We want to make sure that we don't, in any of these solutions we that we don't allow that and if that's the case you need to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "do a reset And basically session reset in that case could be okay. The third thing was, There was initially a comment about the size part as well like whether open message, one of the concerns was that in the open message, if you have too many distributed blocks, the size of open message could be an issue So I wanted to understand that feedback from the group as well, how real it is what's happening. And maybe on second thoughts, actually, the sixth option can take care of it You can put all the things that you can put in the initial open message and even if the size concern is there, you can find further handle this with the future notification message So I think one of the concerns or cons of open message can be removed if we move to open plus notification so my, I wanted to just clarify now my feedback I can live with six, six meets our requirement The preference for two wars mainly because that seems like the right thing to do. It's a property of an LS node. If we have now a mechanism, for a node to give, advertise its property, to a controller, this could easily be one of those properties where each nodes saying that this is the set of label blocks or function IDs that they want to be controlled by PC Chang said that that would tight it too much. Yes, you have to use PCP and but it doesn't mean that you have to implement the whole jabang of all LS types and L-S object. We can just do an L-S report, and this LS report only supports notes, doesn't carry remote information and only advertise the mandatory TLVs and this extra things So it's possible, at least from the implementation point"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "of view, it will not be too much effort that you have to improve the whole PSPLS. The part that I'm worried about this, it's going to be coupling the fate of this work with PSEFLS. PSEFLS is an experimental thing note this is also an experimental thing we can merge two experiments. It's not the end of the world It's possible. So just wanted to clear that part to the people who feel that, oh, PSEFLS might be too heavy. I feel it might not be as heavy, but it has that tight coupling that would be my feedback So let's move to the next in the queue and get more feedback Yeah, thank you. Thank you for clarification Samil Yes. So Samel, Sidda, Francisco So one small comment so I still pay for option number six but I can imagine that if, for example, some implementations, does not need to basically change the advertised range in the future or they know that the strategy is statically allocated then I can imagine even, let's say, combining with some capability so still is even option one can be used for such input implementation so so basically if they anybody is implementing it knows that they will not need to change the range of later, then they can stick to just implementing the open message solution and do not advertise the capabilities so the notification message would not be supported in search the open message solution and do not advertise the capabilities so the notification message would not be supported in circuit. So it will be sitting somewhere in the middle For somebody who don't need to change, the label and in the future, they can still omit the notification message completely. If the will be implementations in the future which you need to change the label range, then they can implement the notification message"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "on top of that and avoid flapping the piece of session itself Thanks, Samuel. Thank you Andrew andrew stone. Yeah, Samuel actually just said kind of along the same lines that I was going to say, which is the nice thing is we've got it in bed and open. We use open for a lot of capability and nodal specific information So that's covered. Now, in the event that you do want to do a manipulation of that without having a force a session reset, notification can be bolted on top And then now coming from the other side, so like Safara, you mentioned that, you know, perhaps that this is a feature creep scope kind of problem here that we're bringing. But I do think in general as a PSEP group, the idea of changing values that were given in the open message without forcing a session flop does have value in itself. And so I see this almost this opportunity to say there is a gap today in PSEP where you can't change open messages on the fly and there are use cases where that might be needed right and you don't want to have the impact of flopping that session and so I see this as saying okay well let's take the concept of the open message and we're going to say generically we want to solve updating open messages by using no notification. Now, if your PCC doesn't support updating, PC, you know, open content on the fly, well, then you just don't use it. Right. And there's no difference from a PCE perspective. So thanks excellent point Adrian. adrian farrel yeah I like the way Andrew uh presented that However, let's not use this draft as a way of shoehorning that we might want to do this for other things So my question is kind of do we really actually, have we identified? a a need to update this specific? piece of information on the fly? We don't have to rule it out, but if we haven't identified a need, let's start"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "with the open and then look at Andrew's bigger problem space and suck in this as an update if needed Andrew, yeah I totally agree. Like if we wanted to say that this draft is not going to solve, how do you update open message, and we're going to solve that independently. And then ideally that independent solution can obviously just be used for this. I mean, yeah, that's sounds good to me. Do folks have any idea? on what other open message anything on top of your head that you think i have to go look back MSD yeah MSD is a good example So there's obviously chassis limitations on different hardware, so segment running MSD Person installs PSEP, they start using it, they realize that the MSD relayed in the open message is not quite what they wanted. So they need to update it. The only way today to update that is to flop the PSEB session. Yeah, that sounds like a predictor So, oh, Cenk, maybe option 7, but we know one let's call it one one and with a few future way of handling this, which is like the best solution for you. You don't have to do much of an update anymore Yes uh so what does the working group thinks Is there any thoughts on this? I think we should take this, of course, to the list as well, that at least the people in the room feels that the right approach, and we want to solve this in a generic way via notification outside of this document. And let's people who are in interested, start working on that output. Thanks Okay, thank you. I'll come up with another new revision and share to the list and let's discuss based on that tip. Thanks, let me pass control for this one as well. Yeah, thank you so much"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "so it's me again right the the topic of this is about inter for post-computation element which is PCE communication procedures And I have to say sorry that I forgot to up update this draft after the IETF119 So much. Sorry so much, yeah And yes, let's come back to the document First of all, these drafts, was presented in the last IETF meeting. And in this draft, we describe the need and the mechanism of synchronization between the synchronization between the PCEs, right? And the reason why we need to provide such kind of mechanism is add PCEs, right? And the reason why we need to provide such kind of mechanism is, in some cases, we may provide you know, additional resilience for the the system right and and then you can see we may need to provide some solutions to solve the split brand things or provide some you know prime prime and secondary piece for the PCC just for, you know, low balance something like that. Yep. And in the drafts, we do provide some capabilities such as the PC can have, you know, the PCEP sessions to monitor PCEs, and then between the PC they can build up some, you know, connections as well and by using the connect between PCEs, they can use PC reports message to synchronize the information, the states of the LSPs, something like that. Yep So that is the main information of the draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "And then right now, we still have some open issues to be at addressed. So the main issue is that currently we do not have the way on the mechanism to synchronize the information carries in the open message from one PC to another PC because you know using the PC report message, you can only sync up the RSP state right but what if we need to sync up the piece uh you know, using the PC report message, you can only sync up the RSP state, right? But what if we need to sync up the piece, the information carried by the PC? the open message? There's no mechanism defined it right now. So we may need to address this before moving the draft of the war Yep. So regarding this, we are proposing some, you know, a solution here. So, uh, think a possible solution would be we can use the notification message and we can define a new notification type just for you know interpea state synchronization and then we can create two basic uh uh uh value i mean the notification values one mint adding you know piece then we can create two basic value, I mean the notification values. One means adding, you know, PCC's open information. And two means adding removing, you know, PCC open information, something like that, but we can definitely definitely add more value notification values if we need to right? So also, we can encode something more I mean more information in the notification objects such as the speaker entity id TV right it's quite normal and it is straightforward and yes I think that is the main information And then, okay, this leads the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "details of the design of the whole solution by of using notification message yeah you can see the value one it's about adding the PCC information and value too, yep. So I will not go into the details. Let's leave some minutes to a full discussion. Yep. So the next step is, do we have any object of this proposal or? do you have any other solutions? welcome to proposing, to propose the solution and we do have some comments from agent to be addressed. I'm so sorry that I didn't have time to adjust them but I promised that it would be addressed in a month several weeks after the IETF meeting And comments from ANR review yeah, that would be addressed as well And after addressing this existing issues personally I believe the draft is quite stable and maybe we can move it to another working group last school yep there i said Thank you. Yeah andrew stone, this is just tying back to the previous conversation actually about the different use cases of why you might want to update or refresh an open message. At the time, I was also thinking about this case. Now, granted the identity, like the different of the messages, but the pattern is essentially the same of saying I'm going to send a note notification message that contains open content. And this environment, it's just not about the PC itself, it's being relayed from the underlying PCC. And then in the previous presentation, it's just about a PCC itself. So I find it we maintain a common pattern there. Thank you Yeah, thank you so much. Maxi Bacu Any other feedback from anyone? I think we already put this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "on the mailing list people should have enough time to, I guess, read it. We discuss this today as well. So I'm feeling that we can start, we can confirm that this notification mechanism is the good way forward and so I would suggest authors to update it in the document right now it's only in the mailing list to add this into the document, handle Adrian's comment and let's move the document forward Yeah, no problem. I would do it as soon as possible thank you no problem Thank you given you a slight control Okay, thank you Can you hear me? Yes please go ahead. Okay, so this document is about PCEP extension for distribution of link state and T information for optical networks First, I'd like to introduce the background of this document I think we all agree that PCEPLS describes generic mechanisms average link state, and T information can be collected from a case networks and shared with a PCE with PC and T-E information can be collected from package networks and shared with PCE with PCEP. This is achieved using a new PCEP message format And secondly, generic links data will was adopted earlier this year So in this document,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "we provide extension to the link state for OTN networks Here are two reasons On the one hand, given the development of recent OTN tech knowledge, for example, fine-green OTN, this approach is becoming more valuable. On the other hand, the desire for PCEP LS in op optical networks may be stronger because BGP is not usually implemented so we don't have an option with BGP BGPS LS. The document status is not usually implemented, so we don't have an option with BGP LS. The document data is moved to together with draft IETF PCEP LS PCEP, LS, but not presented in recent years So we want to restart after the adoption of a draft IETF, PCEP, PCEP in recent years. So we want to restart after the adoption of a draft EETF PCEPLS to cover the PCAPLS applications in OTU Yeah and this slide introduced the applicability cases. First case, one, there is an IGP running in the optical network, as there is a need to collect LS and T resource information at a PCE from individual or specific optical nodes more frequently or rapidly than IGP allows So using PCEPS"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "a PCE may receive full information or incremental update Case 2, there is no IGP ground in the Optic Network and there is a need to collect LS and T resource information from the optical network no IGP ground in the optical network, and there is a need to collect LS and T-resource information from the optical nodes for used by the PCE Case 3, there is a need to share abstract optical link-state and T-E information from child PCE to a parent PCE in a hierarchical PCE system. For example, this requirement may exist between a PNC and MDSC in the ECT architecture So in this document we give the PCEP extension including node attributes following optical specific attributes are extended in this document document Oh, sorry. Yeah this slide, we present the node attributes and in this slide, we present the link attributes. The following optical specific attributes are extended in this document Next step, we will continue to cover all OTSA technologies, including a fine green OTN, which has specific demand on the link-state mechanism and implementation under progressing we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:03",
    "text": "also call for WG tablogy adoption and across also call for tablogy adoption and a course review by CCAMP to check the technology details That's all from my set Any contribution and comments are welcome Thank you Any comments? Thank you already sent a message to CCAMP working group or is this? something that you plan to do? Oh, well, I yeah, how may I? Howmien, he's on the line. Yeah, Highwayne, go ahead Yeah, I'm trying to help this. Actually, uh, uh, uh, J-Doh G2709.20 the fine green OTN is the next significant topic we are going to work on for every protocol extension including the PCB And there is applicability check draft ongoing in the CCAM working group, and we are going to discuss them tomorrow. So in that document, this document will be mentioned. So not a formal email on the list Thanks. I also wanted to confirm the end encoding of all of these TLV value types. Those are already defined somewhere else right? Yeah in the current version, we didn't call to that new capability yet. So all the encoding on the subterr with are based on the existing ART RFCs got it thanks thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "Any other comments from anyone? Otherwise, we have our last presentation Yes, please was looking Thank you Maybe sit down and do it Oh, so okay, should I use this So hello, everyone. This is Luis from Telephonic. I will present an update of the draft called Path Competition based on Precision Abilability Metrics and I will do on behalf of my co-authors So I recap about the idea of the draft the idea came because the fact that some communication services require the performance requirements being expressed in the phone of service level objectives. This is the case of the that some communication services require the performance requirements being expressed in the form of service level objectives. This is the case of IETF networked slides services that are described in ERC 9543 but could be also the cases of other services like the terministic ones and so. IPPN working group has defined and released an NERFC about performance availability metrics. This is documented in RFC9 9544 and the idea here was to leverage on that on those performance availability metrics. So to do calculations and selection of the paths in such a way that we can have this paths according to sLOs and according to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:03",
    "text": "behavior along the time so compliant with those SLOs So yeah, the draft was already presented in ITI-11 and 119 and I will present here the updates So the changes from previous version, we have been working on applicability on subsection, so added to describe the scenarios of interest that are basically a path provision path selection, and the new incorporation will be the incident management. So leverage on this as well for the incident management we also have added than initial description of the PSEP message extension following the routing backus now form So it's a first attempt. Not sure if it is correct at all but well, we would like to assess with your help And it's inspired in the RFC-8-2 3 3 3 we added some additional comments for sure from from different people showing interest on the draft and also we added Kwan as co-author We, for sure, we have updated references like the NFC for the president availability metrics that were released during this period Regarding the applicability, I'm going into the detail of the different scenarios one scenario could be the provision of paths according to the decision behavior along the time. So here the idea is to have some measurements of the path and with that measurements to build somehow the statistical behavior of the path so that we can use it for provision in the path and be sure that will be compliant with the expected behavior along the time so not only the precise measurement of, for instance, thinking on this latency as an example, so not only the complete with the latency at a given point on time but being compliant with a statistical decision of that latency along the time So for instance, the path is 90% of the time below 10 milliseconds, 99%"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "of the time below 8 milliseconds and so far. A second case, we do the selection of a path according to the long-man characteristics So in the first case, the path is not yet established In the second case, it would be established and then we select that according to the behavior. And the final case of application would be the fact of triggering corrective action in a selected path, so maybe selected another path or so a link with the idea of having this anomaly detection and this network incident stuff Regarding the structure of the PC message, we did our first attempt of having the PSEP messages described with RRMBE of the PSEP message, we did our first attempt of having the PSEP messages described with an R&B form. And this is what we have writing down in the draft but yeah, we I mean, we need assessment to understand if this is correct or not but essentially what we have added here is a new precision metric list for both the request message and the report message So regarding the next step, I said, access the message messages are correct. We have doubts, so apologies is our first attempt for this Also, we would like to collect more feedback from the PC working group. This is why we are presented today, but also the idea would be to collect feedback from other working groups that are around these SLO-based services like T's and then net. And this will be done, yeah email and yeah, trying to have to have to collect some feedback before next IETF also we lin the first versions of the draft the draft we were towards the option of extending the metric object In the latest version, we have defined a new precision metric object. We receive comments from Drew in the past. This could be the convenient approach or not. We don't know with think that having a new object would be better for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "purpose, but yeah, for sure it's an open point and we would like to get feedback from the working group and then also the idea would be to align these ideas of precision metrics with the metrics defining deadnet. There are, there is an error scene deadnet around these topics So we want to have more relationship with the deadnet staff to understand if this approach is valid It's shown in case the draft is progressing the idea as well would be to change the status from information to standard track. And our idea is with all these new next steps to prepare a new version for next IETF. And that's all from, I say thank you should I try Okay, so please go back to the requirement, the first one? Yeah, so there you mentioned, uh, the selection of path or calculating path calculation using these metrics so in in about the selection of path or calculation, path calculation using these metrics. So in IGP or topology, you have transmission information and not these kind of metrics information and then even if you have, I mean, so that's one issue for that particular type of calculation. So you can do stuff like delay bond which is already supported and all, but this is like an metric for computation at the device and something like SLA style for the policy so I do agree with the degreeing of collective action, which is the next one, but the calculation is what I'm struggling with And even if you have the information, the problem is that if you compute and the trigger happens right so you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:03",
    "text": "go to the next part, and then you recompute and you may end up to the same path So even for triggering, there is an obstacle that we need to overcome But for park calculation, there is even a bigger obstacle So I think I'd like to hear your opinion on these two and then we were discussing online about this. Certainly for the first case, we need to figure out how this could be done what what mathematical sense for that? So considering the sampling of the different segments and how to to aggregate maybe and assume an extra value for the queuing and so on so far. So this is some homework that we need to do to see how feasible will be to address the first case. And as you said, for the second and the third probably there are no no much issues. So the key point here is to understand the feasibility of the first point and how it can be done having mathematical and realistic meaningful sense and if i mean and also this having this information of panelling basis at the PC that's the only way the PC can do the part two, that's part competition in that in this respect, probably different information could not be necessarily being collected by the PC Maybe the PC could have access to some databases and all that device this is not we are not entering in those details or probably could be another different element the one providing the information, the process information. So in the way that we don't overload the PC for that okay anyway it could to see what are your thoughts in them, the feasibility of the path compute requirement for these metrics And for the second one, we're triggering or going to the next candidate path, there is a couple of drafts"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:02",
    "text": "in spring that do talk about different criteria for invalidating a candidate path So this could be a metric added among those criteria. So that could be another, like you could take it there and then work on the feasibility of the path side of it. It will be great. Safari, you can send the pointers to the there are so it would be great to look at them absolutely thank you thank you so far excellent comments let's take this to the list. I think it's, this could have a long list discussion on this. Thank you I'm next in the queue So my comment was, I think, from the last time itself, I kind of prefer. I want to understand a little bit better from you why you feel that a new object is needed. When we can always define a new metric object type, and that could still have all the characteristics that you want of the precision object itself so we have object type 1, which looks exactly like our current metric metric object but metric type two which is for precision. So without creating a new object class for call precision object i'm not getting the benefit that you are getting from that maybe what i can do is you will see without creating a new object class for call precision object i'm not getting the benefit that you are getting from that maybe what i can do is you wish is to send to the list pros and cons maybe do uh initial analysis or from our perspective and yeah, with the conclusion that we reach yes we can take the direction in the draft of this agree Thank you. Rakesh Rakez Kandi from Cisco Systems, just to add to what zafar ali saying, right, so for the link delay measurement, the goal is to measure the fiber length and that remains fixed, right? So here it's about our availability and how many times, how many packets violated, you know, 20 milliseconds is 90% and then 99% would be 20 and things like that right so it's more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "for services and things like that, like you have available matrix for the service but for link is fixed, like the distance between Vancouver to Calgary is fixed. There is no violation, there is no, so this is how the park competition works. So it's just not clear to me how all of these things fit together, Pam, and PC. Thanks Yeah, I acknowledge the point that the place has a these things fit together, Pam and PC. Thanks. Yeah, I acknowledge the point that plays as we have commented with the first point. For the second point, I think is clear because when the path is established, we can some the samples and somehow see these variables taking into account as well the queue in time and so on so far. What you comment, like, is certainly true for the first point, so we need to elaborate a little bit more and finally end up with makes sense or not for the selection, for the for the provision of the path so to be take the action of analyzing that and maybe bring into the lease as well and see it makes sense or not. So for the second point do you mean to say that once you know the segment list and you have end-to-end multi-hop measurements you keep some kind of statistics and then that when PC gives you that path, you use that statistics and then say that this path has this kind of history and it's not suitable for my service. Yes, yes Okay, thank you. Thank you And that was our last presentation Thank you, everyone bye see you in Dublin Thank you Bye. Bye. Bye. See you next time Have a good one, bonjour bonsocki"
  }
]
