[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:13",
    "text": "hey good morning to the deprived chairs um i don't see your slides in the slide set for the um the session are you guys all set with your slides hey glenn yeah yeah we're all flat okay just wanted to make sure everything was okay and i didn't need to approve anything for you well i got a travel voucher you can approve um oh it's so approved um and put a little something on for yourself on that awesome i didn't know all the power is to actually pay it but i approve it you're in the same boat i am yeah we'll get started about another miners though um okay okay this is a pre-announcement before the the chairs will open the working group so this is combined deprived atd working group meaning the chairs are all remote so alexander and myself are delegates just to make sure that if there's something unfortunately happens we can jump in and help them out but it's it's run by the chairs remote and please uh scan the quad code because we use it also as the blue sheets so please register yourself and again if you want to go to the mic create your hand on your mobile app"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "thank you oh all right why don't we go ahead and get started um as um as benno said this is this is the joint meeting of d5 and add and um i'm brian haberman uh along with with tim we're the co-chairs of deprived and first i want to thank vanilla and alex for for taking our spots at the front of the room um they're probably doing you know all the hard work and we get to sit in our offices and just you know rattle rattle off on different topics uh next slide please um just as a note um you know we do have the jabber room going through roomie deco so feel free to have whatever back channel conversations you want to have eric is probably floating around somewhere he is our a.d who keeps us in line i don't know how uh and the minutes uh are at that link tim will be keeping the minutes but he will always appreciate any additions uh to those minutes as we move along next slide please uh no well um given that this is third day the iehf meeting i hope everybody"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "has seen this and read these documents um it's basically giving you all the the process guidelines for for how we operate and the things that you have to understand about ietf policy so if you haven't read these please go read them especially the code of conduct next slide please um i'm not going to read these these are just called out for everybody understands you know what we're asking as we as we move uh through the meeting um one key thing here that i'm going to highlight though is is the make sure that you identify yourself when you're speaking with the with this hybrid mode making sure people both you know on meet echo and in the meeting room know who's speaking will make much easier for people understand next slide please a couple of tips uh benno actually touched on one of those for those for the insight people about you know being able to sign into the session uh the other the other key thing here uh will help move this meeting along very quickly and efficiently is is using meet echo to join the mic queue so we know who to call on as as we have topic discussions um other things i think are are pretty self-explanatory uh if you have any problems you know feel free to let us know or one of the meat echo or the secretariat folks and they'll help you out next slide please all right so a relatively light agenda for for deprived today we're going to do a quick update um we'll have a an on the fly discussion of the unilateral probing draft we had a little bit of a mix up with getting slides submitted but um we do have the authors here to talk for a few minutes about that and then tim and i are going to raise uh you know some discussion points for what we want to do next within deprive itself"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "any comments questions proposed changes to this agenda before we move on okay next slide please so what are we working on if you want the details welcome to the data tracker it shows you all the fun things that deep private has been doing uh current state of affairs and all that fun stuff next please alex so uh where do we actually stand with the current work uh the big news you know i i think everybody has seen the note to the mailing list the dns uh over quick document has has now been moved to the rfc editor view so it's been approved by the isg i want to thank not only um sarah christian and allison for for their efforts in in you know moving this document through the working group i also appreciate all the comments and feedback that the working group has given and the hard work that uh eric and the isg members uh provided in order to to get this done so thanks to everyone that is now for the most part off our plate and should be in rfc relatively soon and then we also adopted uh the the unilateral probing document um i'm going to let uh dkg talk about that for for a few minutes uh the big thing that i want to make sure everybody understands is that this document has actually been marked as um taking the place of the unauthenticated draft that paul and peter were working on so this will be the main focus of the working group moving forward um i do want to thank um you know paul and peter for the effort they put into that other draft and and they were actually the ones who suggested that that this one replaced their work so hopefully this will get some traction and move through quickly with that uh dkg you want to say a few things about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "your draft sure thanks i'm this is daniel gilmore let me see if i can share my screen with a handful of slides um [Music] yeah so uh joey salazar can you all see the slide that i'm presenting there sorry for the um not having uploaded it earlier yeah so joey and i uh put this draft together uh trying to document um reasonable policies that can be adopted without much coordination for the second encrypting the second hop of the dns traffic i know that as you just said this is supersedes other drafts that were in place we don't mean this to necessarily replace their work but we see it as a sort of more of a formalization of the kind of work that we've been talking about and we encourage the folks who have worked on the other drafts that this is marked officially as superseding to join us in contributing to it um so in particular we want to think about both sides uh what the recursive resolver and what the authoritative servers can do without worrying about any kind of signaling we think the best that you can do here is protection against passive attackers and the basic rules are you know authoritative servers can listen using dot or doq and recursive resolvers can probe by authoritative ip address um for dot and doq and not worry about authentication failures um so but doing this of course it adds a few concerns specifically about uh the additional latency about resource consumption on both the recursive recursive resolvers and authoritative servers and potentially of course if this doesn't work that there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "will be some data leakage so we try to provide specific guidance for what to do we do not cover probing for doh because of the path requirement which makes it non-obvious as to how to see whether the authoritative server offers doh and we don't cover how to do signaling because again this is unilateral this is something that doesn't need a signal to do you can just try to do it we do try to outline what kinds of signaling you would need in order to get better protection but that's uh that's relatively small part of the draft and we're not attempting to define any signaling mechanisms here or even say how you would use them specifically um the main changes that we've seen thanks to feedback from several people on the mailing list and privately we've adjusted some of the parameters obviously the adoption is is a big change but we've adjusted some of the parameters in the proposed algorithms to be better tuned um to be to specifically avoid excess resource consumption um and excess latency um we've tried to clarify uh the rationales for some of these choices and in particular dealing with how they might interact with pools uh we hope that those clarifications are useful uh but maybe there are some still i'm sure people who read this and attempt the deployment will give feedback i hope they'll get feedback i'm sure that they'll discover things that they understand better uh after deployment than they understood just from reading this and so i want to encourage folks to try implementing this both if you're an authoritative if you're deploying an authoritative server um or if you are working on a recursive um you know we encourage people to try this out and give feedback to the draft about what gator didn't uh make sense um there's two sort of open uh fixed musing the document one of them is about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:03",
    "text": "how the probing policy interacts with different connections like what should you do maybe joe you want to jump in and and and fill this in for me i'm forgetting what the specific fix me is but of course folks who can just read the document and find fix me the other one is about how we imagine a signal to be combined with this might be nice to provide a little bit of text there although of course given that we don't want to define the signal itself we can't be too specific i think that is the main thing this is about sort of the history of other work that's gone into this um and again you know our goal here is not to to claim that any of these other insights and these other drafts is wrong but rather to provide concrete guidance uh to implementers and we hope that other people who've done this kind of work will will uh join us on this draft um so yeah so we would love to see more comments and review on the mailing list um we're doing this uh it's on git lab actually not github so happy to have issues and pull requests or merge requests there and of course substantive discussion does belong on the mailing list as usual so i think that's all the slides we will upload a copy of these slides to the data tracker apologies for not getting that to land in the right spot earlier paul i see you're in the queue hi this is paul hoffman so i'm one of the two co-authors on one of the previous drafts and i want to be super clear that peter and i i don't normally speak for people but peter's in my other window here um are fully supportive of this draft and for people who haven't been following or got confused because it took so long to get to this point the main reason that we are very happy with this draft and more than ours is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "we could not get traction on ours from uh the wide audience of the working group um that is the people who insisted on strong signaling would not contribute on weaker signaling the people who wanted sort of mid-level signaling uh were not able to contribute on the higher or lower so by going to and so when when dkg and joey came up with this draft we were like oh okay completely different than where the working group was bringing us but maybe this will get interest and it obviously did so we're really happy with it um i will contribute um um my biggest thing that i would say right now is i would say that that the working group would is likely to only finish if we get rid of any signaling at all in this current document if we don't even have whiffs of signaling um that is that i i believe that signaling could come later but only after the folks who want the signaling and have figured out exactly what their requirements are not how to do the signaling but what is the requirement of it which is what ecker uh had gotten at initially although he didn't run down that the road too far on it but with the the um adot document um was saying we need to figure out what you know what level of security is needed i would say for for the current work rip it all out don't even point towards a possible future because the future could come people could come with new document and peter and i are not intending to do that we mostly went with the signaling because that's what the working group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "seemed to be asking for um i was personally now because i'm not sure that peter agrees but i'm totally happy with signal free i think that this will get us going and will lay down a good framework for anybody who feels that they want to add signaling to this um so yeah now i'm um we're really happy that this is happening um i have one suggestion on keeping the work going because we obviously had a problem with that on our documents uh which is that um when people propose new issues on the mailing list that either dkg or joey add them to uh the get lab um issues list i mean people can add them on their own but if you know since some people really don't like doing issues list um themselves that the authors take any issues that appear de novo on the mailing list stick them in git lab and um that way we do the tracking because what we really you know a thing that peter and i that came to us was we didn't we didn't have any signal sorry for the pun there of when issues were closed so having them open and close on get get lab um will really help on um getting at for the chairs to know when we're ready for a working group last call um so anyway sorry i'm blathered on about a document that i'm no longer author on but we are really happy with uh the current document so thank thanks to dkg and joey for doing that thanks paul um i just want to say like the draft is very clear that it's trying is deliberately not specifying signaling i mean the name unilateral implies that there really isn't any signaling to do um the um and i wanted to briefly respond martin sorry just before before you um you step"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "up i see you in the queue there um ted raises a concern in the chat about musts that have that that are like you must not serve uh different records based on the s i that's difficult for the client to understand um or or detect right and and i wanted to explain why those kinds of musts are in this draft this kind of draft is saying look this is the most straightforward way that recursive resolvers are going to do this kind of unilateral probing and for this to work servers need to also do this other thing right so in some sense the the only non-unilateral part of this proposal is assuming that both sides the recursive resolvers and the authoritative servers do adopt you know roughly reasonable um implementations there right that that they adopt implementations that stick to these standards then it will work if one side doesn't cue to the standard then the defenses against resource exhaustion the defenses against um you know the assuring that records come back correctly those start to fall away so that's the that's the reason why those kinds of musts are there i agree it is worrisome that we can't tell but that's also true in general for dns requests but i don't know if that fully addresses your squeakiness i'm sure parts of it still remain but just wanted to explain why that's there martin you want to go ahead uh hi martin huneck i would like to see in this document the a little bit higher recommendation to gain over the x 509 uh i would like to see that because of the this gain it's possible to do it automatically on dns without so it might be uh more uh useful to use today over the x 5.9 i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "would see a lot i would like to see there a bigger recommendation on that so let me make sure that i understand martin what you're asking for i think what you're saying is you'd like to see dane authentication of the authoritative server by name for the tls channel itself uh yeah i would like to see this over the x509 i see so i'm not convinced that that belongs in this draft because this draft basically the the unilateral part of it basically means that it's going to be opportunistic and so to the extent that this draft talks about authenticating the authoritative server at all um it basically says you can try to authenticate if you like but whatever you do don't don't ignore like don't uh block the connection on the basis of authentication yeah i understand that but uh there's also some for the smaller uh i don't know how it's actually written there uh that some smaller uh dns servers might use a self-sign it so uh maybe also recommend there that they could be a better alternative to it um i think that would belong in a draft that that uh is not opportunistic right in a draft that says you know that tries to to lock in the security guarantees including against active attackers that would be appropriate and i would support it but given that this draft doesn't lock in i'm reluctant to have it weighed into you know here's a recommendation you should do this kind of thing because this draft doesn't even say like what name should the client expect right we're leaving that deliberately this draft is deliberately agnostic about that because we want to say look here is the way to get defense against uh passive monitors right you could you can do this thing and you don't have to worry about any of the rest of it and a recommendation throwing a recommendation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "in here about how to authenticate means that we're sort of opening the door to discussions that this draft isn't willing to contemplate i should be clear i i am with you in the bigger picture but i want to keep this draft simple so that people can implement it we can get some experience and we can see what percentage we can get protect against passive attackers just doing the simple thing um and i think that will motivate the kinds of recommendations that you're asking for in other drafts okay thank you very much thank you martin then i see you up in the queue hey uh just to emphasize dkg's point um i don't think there's any conflict here if anything these these fit together nicely self-signed certificates are entirely compatible with dane yeah in in dany e-mode you can just drop the hash of that self-signed certificate into your dane record and uh now you have dane authentication so i think the draft is saying here's here's a simple thing that you can start with and that will set us up for uh for future authenticated modes that are trickier to standardize thanks ben eric i see you there yeah i mean maybe um i feel like there are two uh perhaps you know three different framings of this document one document one framing of the previous emails ago pkg um namely that it's the um you know uh uh it's about seeing how much deployment you can get um you know with for passive attack right um uh another framing is that it's about getting experienced with um you know the operational uh pressures of having increased the dns um to authoritative and the third is that it's a bridge to um uh to to a mode that is stronger right and um the ascent to which uh it's i guess one and two then yeah it doesn't matter all what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "what what the server is serving but um but to send to which it says it was a bridge then um then certainly something which you know be bogus um uh is is it for is unfortunate because it's a new hurdle for for for any any future scenario mechanism so i mean to be like it's like as a sort of like not done fishing is the right way to do it but as um you know for for example if you serve a valid certificate um via whatever mechanism um then it's possible to have um some sort of hsts type that kind of uh you know signal in the uh um in the dns but if you're serving your presumptively invalid certificate and yeah and they're then um then it would be unfortunate um and perhaps i think um extraordinarily undesirable to have an hts mechanism served over like an unvalidated self-certificate because then you have to worry about um you know about uh temporary attacks being boosted up into long-term attacks so i i guess i i think i'm less sanguine with the idea of encouraging people to serve um like not even in principle validatable um credentials so uh eric i uh let me first say that the three different ways that you describe of reading the draft i think are all valid those are all things that i envision this draft as doing and i hear your concern about uh encouraging things that would that would make things worse for future signaling but here's the way that i'm thinking about it this draft i think doesn't need to specify any particular recommendation because to the extent that we do want to have signaling hsts style or whatever other kind of style the point for that signaling is to upgrade from whatever this mechanism is and if that signaling description says by the way now you need to make sure you know when you're doing the signaling you need to ensure that you are offering the following kind of certificate or following kind of authentication mechanisms that's part of how you turn signaling on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "right and yes i agree with you any hscs style mechanism should not work over a presumptively invalid certificate therefore if that signaling mechanism that we choose you simply haven't achieved that if you haven't given a validate certificate we i think we can defer that authentication question to whatever signaling draft we put in place after this i'm hoping that we will get to that point does that make sense uh i think it makes sense i'm not sure i'm not sure i agree strategically but i'm not sure but i think getting something better than nothing so i'll i'll be quiet for now okay i'm happy to talk with you more later if you want to strategize about um this kind of problems i i care about that too yeah i think all i'm trying to say is like i don't want to get into a bad equilibrium where like where like everybody has self sign search with it we have no way to boost strap up and then that and and then and then the um and and then and the two open questions really are about any kind of mechanism like this one whether or not like the sort of operational aspects of running the um you know of like like having all your formerly 53 traffic turned on to like dot or doke like our pro probabilities and i've heard a bunch of complaints about that and the second is like where the operational aspects like of having like actually serving a valid credential right and so my fear is that we get this equilibrium where people if i feel comfortable surfing like tls in general but then they're like well it's too it's like actually having like a valid credentials prohibited evidence and so i would and so like we until then we can't please drop off so that's so how we get there i don't know that's my concern the main gotcha that i hear in the scenario that you describe is where it is not possible to change the authentication credential um right where somehow people feel like they've they've gotten used to serving it in this unilateral way um with whatever weak authentication is and then they decide they want to go more secure and they find that they are trapped because they if they try to change the credential that they offer they run the risk of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "right uh no i don't think that's not quite what i mean i mean maybe but i think i guess i guess what i'm saying is like i think the history of like deployment on the web there was like a lot of talk for a whole long time about how we how he or she saw certificates right and um and there's a feeling that it was too hard to get um you know web pretty high valid credentials and that it turned out to be the case obviously uh after after like some work but i guess i'm i'm just just frantically concerned about having people feel like they've done all the work and then having a new barrier to have to climb and i'm going to climb that barrier but again again i think like you're you're raising a valid diploma theory i'm not sure i share it but like i'm happy if people are enthusiastic about this one i think like let's go with it yeah okay um yeah i think this is one step and we're looking to climb a bunch of steps eventually and i think helping people climb the one step first and then yes have another step to take i think that's the right way to go but we'll see what happens paul you're next so thank you to eric for the uh um the three purposes um i would very much like to say that um i don't i think that the third purpose this is you know that this draft is going to act as a bridge to the future one should be completely out of scope and not done there should be and and you know because eric brought this up a few months ago and i thought it was a really good discussion on the list there should be nothing in this draft or or in the draft that we adopt you know that that gets out of the working group there should be nothing in that document that prevents any sane fully authenticated system from being deployed so absolutely no prevention but there should not be any feeling that this is a bridge towards one or many of them because it will turn into a bridge towards one but not the others and such"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "and so that goes exactly to what eric was saying with the oh you know well if people already have self-signed certs then you know this this they may feel like they don't want to go up to the next level that desire to go up to the next level is what needs to be motivating for the uh you know whatever the document is so i would really like to see us not try to bridge but very actively try not to um to block and the exact point here is you know ecker was saying um well you know if people just have self-signed certs you know that's not good we should try to get them to have real certs but we don't know what the name is we i mean we've had discussions on the list of what name do you put in a cert for a server that has a hundred thousand names or what name do you put in the cert should it be an ip address or things like that until we have that discussion i believe the world is better off with people putting in obviously self-signed certs with crappy identities in them that would that will shine a light on this is not meant for that next thing over there so i'm happy with it but i would love to see um eckers uh trilogy or at least the first two parts of vector's trilogy uh clearly reflected um up front in in the document of these are the design goals um and it might be okay to say as a design goal we don't want to get in the way of future things um that's sort of a topology because you never want to get in the way of future things but it might be worth you know at least uh bowing in that direction thank you paul it looks like the queue is drained to me i don't want to steal more time from the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "working group than we need um so i think i'm going to step away from the mic and stop sharing thank you for the discussion and i look forward to more comments yeah thank you yep that's the right one alex thanks um so the last topic on the on the agenda and and this is kind of more to spoiler discussion on the mailing list but um you know with with with the adoption of unilateral probing you know what we're really looking at here is is the last milestone that the working group has identified uh alex i think there's one more slide if you could jump to that yeah so so we've completed the work on on the confidentiality between stubbs and revolvers and you know we've been talking about doing both on unauthenticated and authenticated uh work or connections between the recursive and the authoritative servers it seems that at this point where we're really kind of focused on on more of the the unauthenticated uh as the time being and and waiting on on what to do for the authenticated side um so the the key thing here is is is to really kind of focus the working group on on getting this this document you know you know you know get it quality reviews get iterations encourage some implementation so that we can we can understand what's going on with the um with the functions defined in the document um so and that one more slide alex"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "so with the existing milestones we originally had a a milestone for developing the requirements we we tried that um the working group didn't seem to be all that interested in it um so it's been marked as abandoned the um the work the milestone focusing on the the solution for adding confidentiality to exchanges with the authoritative servers we think that the unilateral probing drafts is going to provide that functionality and so we really want to focus there and then at one point we had a milestone that talked about defining and collecting and publishing performance data for measuring the effectiveness of deprived published technologies um tim and i had the discussion about this and we were struggling to figure out you know who in the working group would be um you know really interested in doing those kinds of measurements uh and being able to structure it in a way that gave us useful data and we really didn't come up with a great answer so we're actually suggesting that that perhaps tim and i go and talk to the to the map rg chairs because this seems to be far more in their their bailiwick of expertise in in doing these these types of measurements the one thing i will say here is is that you know because we were talking about the performance against pervasive monitoring we would just probably want to you know get that point across that it's not just measuring you know traffic to and from servers it's really measuring more of the the capabilities to um you know prevent that kind of pervasive monitoring so what this really means is is you know right now tim and i see the working group as being tightly focused on on getting unilateral probing you know move through the process and and out the door so that we can we can start seeing some deployments and some some experimentation so if anybody has comments on that and we have a couple"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "minutes left otherwise we'll we'll probably focus on moving the discussion to the mailing list paul uh paul hoffman so one minor comment is on number two i know that our charter says experimental um i didn't agree with it at the time i don't agree with it now the current draft is definitely protocol like i don't think of it as an experiment we've heard that there is interest both on resolver side and on authoritative server side of doing it once we it's moving forward um i don't think we need to change the charter at this point um but as as unilateral probing goes into uh towards working group last call it um it's currently marked as informational which is is particularly uh um inappropriate um i would like to see this just beyond standards track i there will be as there will be more implementation of this than many other working groups have for some of their standards track documents i don't see any any reason to call this experimental um as long as still at that time there are a couple resolvers and a couple of authoritative servers and a couple of operators who are doing it yeah so experimental actually came from the original form and a formulation of the of the charter and and so i kind of see that as the the minimal bar uh if if the working group thinks that it is standard track um that's not going to force us into a recharter or forcing it to be experimental it will it will be what the working group thinks it should be alex thank you alex mayor um i want to make a comment on the third point on collecting performance data and effectiveness of the technologies um i think that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "that is a nice uh that could be a nice outcome of of the map rg working group and i want to remind people that we still have an experimental rfc um about the padding policy uh you remember that dkg back then did like a single measurement study about what the appropriate betting size would be and i converted it in a document and um that outcome of number three could actually be good inputs to like a revision of that document with updated security properties of the padding sizes and my question is then where would you do that then as soon as we have the results from aprg and the other thing is if we ever do authenticated resolver to recursive where do we stuff that work so if that that would actually be in deprived it's like right now we don't have a proposal in the working group so you know what what tim and i would like to do is really focus on on getting a unilateral probing draft done um if you could could you actually uh post a link to that draft you mentioned for the measurements to the mailing list that may spur some conversations and maybe encourage thanks and um and if there are people interested in doing those measurements from participating then you know we can revisit that but i think the the big thing is that we haven't seen anybody really standing up and saying they're interested in doing that kind of measurements but that those are both good points alex thanks uh eric yeah thanks um uh we we can debate this later but i just want to register that i would not be in favor of taking a lot of appropriate to put it i think it's a good idea because i mean you approach that okay yeah it's like i said it it's a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "discussion for the working group and in conjunction with our ad to see what what makes the most sense for the status all right any other comments before we wrap up all right hearing nothing um i want to thank everyone for attending both uh in person and virtual i hope everyone was able to get youthful information out of it uh i also want to thank benno and alex for for being our our hands on on site and um hopefully we will maybe actually have like a real in-person meeting the next time around um and with that i'm going to wrap up and and say thanks for attending deprived and stand by for the add meeting thanks all hey whoever got controlled can you transfer over me please that is one uh you probably would need to share the slides then yourself because i'm not a delegate can you transfer the control client excellent thank you there you go well there's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "a new version of how to get that uploaded confusing chair slides are uh maybe very similar for seeing that how do i get the um the slides that are being shown to refresh i can throw them away the chair slide should have six six a six slide but the one that are currently active only have five so i refreshed the documents so and uploaded the 80d chair slides can you reopen them let me try that i i did the refresh too i didn't seem to affect the slides that were in the system but let me try again oh i see we've done it thank you sir this one yeah exactly thanks okay for those who are waiting for add we will start at uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "15 minutes past the hour so you have a couple minutes to grab a coffee or whatever you need to get you through the next session and i promise the folks that are that are remote in california that we won't start before 15 minutes past the hour so they didn't have to get up too early the sun's just coming up here uh this okay at least tommy we were originally scheduled at um at uh i think 2 a.m california time so this is the better slot we we we we did good now here's 2am on friday but that's why my working group got scheduled at 2 a.m on friday whoa i'm sorry oh that's terrible anything"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:10",
    "text": "and uh if anybody from deepwood is still on here i see that we got a set of slides proposed by uh dan gilmore um for unilateral probing that need approval from i guess you guys but they're in the add cue okay i show 716 shall we get started with um add is my uh my awesome coach here around right here hello hey mr laura hey buddy sun's actually up here but uh not for long it's actually pretty crappy but that's probably all you need to know well welcome to add at itf 113. um i'm glad dean uh one of your co-chairs um of course this uh meeting uh is conducted under the uh notewell from the itf please be aware of it and follow it and we really really mean it um you know we we carry this over the slide over from the last session because last week i thought it was really great um you know we are kind to each other here and we respect each other uh in our words and our actions uh as i said i'm blending i'm from comcast embassy universal i'm one of the co-chairs mr lawrence you want to introduce yourself dave lawrence um probably anybody here already knows both me and glenn so i don't think any further introductions are needed well there's one eric link our area director who's awesome um so first order of business um we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "three giraffes currently that have been out there in working group last call um these are the three of them listed let me start at the bottom um the dns binding mapping for dns server service funny mapping for dns service online cut number three of coffee today so i'm still waking up um that one has not really received any uh negative comments or any any changes requested uh on the list so uh i think we can go ahead and call that one as a passing working group last call that brings us to the other two drafts um there have been a lot of comments flying around around dnr um from both ben and uh chris especially uh and i see today some discussion on lists about some sort of changes or small editorial uh commentable priority uh flowing over into ddr so i'm wondering do the the various editors for those documents want to make any comments about where where they think we're at with regard to some tommy i see you're in the queue yes thank you um so we we do have uh two open issues on ddr they are both what i would consider to be you know pretty editorial but you know they don't change the protocol fundamentally one is about uh explaining kind of nx domain behavior around resolver.arpa and the other one is what was discussed on list today about hey we should give a call out to dnr so i i think that's all the feedback we have um based on that you know i i i would say that the next state for this should be kind of like last call closed but we need another revision right so we'll come up with another revision and then it could go on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "uh from there but any problems getting that next copy out in the next week or so okay thank you bobby that that's sort of my feeling too um mr lawrence do you have any different opinion on this one we're all on the same page okay uh so then that brings us to dnr um uh our our chris uh box around with the queue want to make any comment tyro i see you're in the queue as well potentially do you want to make some comments about where you guys think we're at with this draft and the various changes that have been proposed yeah we just posted uh the changes uh today and i see that we have addressed all the comments from chris except the one that ben had rise which is with regard to ndp and we have posted and questioned back to the six-man working group i have not seen any response i see ben added his clarification regarding rfc 4861 uh i think only after that feedback we will be able to update this option so we have an external dependency and if we don't get a response maybe the js can intervene and help us get some experts in a six-man working group to respond what is the right way of whether we need an implicit uh service priority or an ex service priority so i think that's the one that needs uh some more discussion and we need uh some clarity from uh the other working group uh the other one i see uh just now ben had posted saying it's not alias mode but rather a mode in which only the adn is published restaurant feeds or will be ignored so i think we'll have to think about it and get back to him so i think this is only two pending comments that i really need to be addressed okay and i see chris boxes in queue chris hello um so yeah the week there has been a flurry of activity on the list so most of those have been um accepted i think so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "there are a couple of areas where um i'd like to hear from other people in the working group if they've got opinions on it um i'm not sure so if we don't hear any then you know maybe the next step is issue a revision and then people can talk about that okay so then i guess to summarize that and i i realized also that i forgot to call for a a scribe for our notes so uh we'll get to that in a second but to summarize the conversation i'll capture these in the notes so number three is is past working group on number one we're pretty much ready there's just uh the two edits that are going to go in and then it's ready for passing on to a um the the the shepherd and then on number two we've got a few outstanding issues with six man and stuff like that uh and and and what not to resolve but it looks like we're in pretty good shape to have that closed off fairly soon is that an accurate reading does anybody have an issue with us for a summary okay now with that can we have somebody volunteer to take notes alex thank you alex just quickly take a note of the last conversation and then um so moving on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "let's go to the agenda um uh should i should i add that to the 80d nodes or to the deprived nodes uh they're actually one the same if you go down down farther in the the uh ad notes you'll see it where is the agenda see the chair slides where's the agenda does it not pull up the agenda i got it i'm gonna add it to the deep private uh notes because i think that the other one is canceled and so oh i got it alex you have to be a bit closer to the mic when you're talking i'm all set for note taking so go ahead hello i'm back me back or crashed on my browser okay um glenn i said i'm i'm i'm ready for note-taking so you can go ahead i didn't know i'm looking for do the [Music] the agenda deck does not get outback be loaded"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:04",
    "text": "the the the markdown agenda is i don't see that in the list of decks to share here i can share it off my screen directly there okay like i share split horizon so um yeah okay so let's do this um so the very first one will be uh tiru europe for split horizon dns um do you want me to show the slides or do you want to drive lights say game uh dan william yes okay and i'm presenting that dan wing um but go ahead and uh show the slides that'd be great well actually i just passed you control dan is that good enough that's good enough they seem to be sharing yes they are sharing oh sweet uh so i am dan wing uh one of the changes we made uh to split dns was uh had ben schwartz join us as an editor and contributor to the document so some of the let me run through some of the changes we've had from the last ietf meeting until now so uh there was a allowance previously for insect that's been removed to tighten up the domain camping that we're trying to avoid um and also remove the subdomain of of ns allowance that we had which was more complicated than necessary for the the solutions that we're trying to aim for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "ben also added a section on dns based validation and we've had a slew of editorial changes that make doing a diff more hard more complicated during the interim one of the things that we uncovered was some slight confusion on the scope for the document that uh it doesn't allow domain filtering uh and that's correct it doesn't uh it's it's only intended to work with a domain that you already own uh and we can verify by talking to a public name server or by doing a dns sec validation so we added a small scope sentence to the document and we might even start talking about tweaking the title to a verified split horizon as well and then as a these graphics didn't work out well um sorry about that um as a um reminder of of how the protocol works we're we're doing pvd and dnr which is up in the blue to get everything started so that's not new what this draft is proposing is the validation that happens at the bottom so what's shown there is talking to a public name server similarly we can validate by uh checking with dns sec which doesn't require going out to a public dna to a public dns server and asking it the question um but in both cases with what we're doing in the green section for the split horizon is verifying the ownership uh is legit you know that the the local dns claiming to own this zone really does have delegation for that zone from the public name servers and i'd really like to have some discussion we've had some good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "discussion at the interim we had some good discussion on the mailing list but certainly things in person are good looking for adoption as well as comments on the content um perhaps most interestingly or most important is are the secure validation mechanisms that we have in the document now sufficient for everyone's needs do we need to add more do we need fewer um you know the the same you know the the the typical we don't want too many standards to solve one problem issue but we want to make sure that we cover the use cases that folks are are concerned about and interested in that's all i have for slides i'm looking for a browser window here we are any questions our discussion around this mr lawrence you want to manage thecube yes ben ben schwartz has seen the queue oh you bet well ben was and then he dropped okay he's back now uh hi ben schwartz um you you mentioned the title um i think that's a really really good point i would go a little further even i think that maybe maybe this would all be a little clearer in terms of its purpose if we change the title to something like uh validating local claims of authority because that's really what this draft is about this is about uh situations where some some local entity tells you claims that they are uh authoritative that they have authority over some zone and you want to check that claim and then we have uh we present in the draft different mechanisms that you could use to to validate that local claim combining a bunch of different technologies that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "are that have come up in this in this working group uh the draft i think still references um uh provisioning domains as the example of where you would get these claims from but actually there are already other standards out there that do this in fact there's there's even an ancient dhcp option that allows the local dhcp server to claim authority over a particular set of domains uh you know no matter where the claim came from this draft describes some mechanisms that a client could use to validate it okay great thank you ben martin please uh hi martin munich uh i would like uh to mention uh two things uh one that uh in the process there is the requirement that name servers had to match between the step one and step 10 i think uh what if they are in a real uh split horizon when the addresses don't match because there are for example internal addresses used there's a one question i don't know if i have this right and the second one uh it seems to me that it's quite a complex process uh as i understand it there is first some dnr then detection of the domain then downloading json through uh https i'm not also don't know if i uh read it correctly uh i don't think every dns had to also run on https it wouldn't be impossible to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "do it by a record placed inside the zone for example srv or txt eventually the cnames to other zones um so yes it might be possible to do that um and and that's why we're asking if there's other secure mechanisms that we could use um and propose text and and we can add that um the reason that we're uh that we have the the two mechanisms we have there today remember what's what was shown on that one slide in green is not this not this document it's just you know how the information is conveyed to the client um so pbd is in there um and and those those steps are not part of what we're extending or creating or defining with this document it's just those last steps which is going out to the public dns and asking for the name server for the claimed local zone that the local name server is claiming ownership of and checking to see if the public dns agrees that that is supposed to be delegated down to this name down to the claimed main name server on the local network that's the only thing that we're adding as well as doing the same steps with dns sects and yes that does mean that the local name server needs to somehow get that authority from the public dns that it owns that zone and how it does that and where it does that when it does that is its own is its own problem um and not not something that we specify in the document okay thank you very much thank you dan uh eckerd please howdy i have um [Music] i have several questions about actual practicality um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "um the first is uh as i understand it from the discussion we had previously in many cases um enterprises do not wish to disclose the existence of non-existence of certain demands so you know say i have mail.example.com but i want to hide this and support.example.com um um in that case it seems mechanism will not work am i correct about that you would have to disclose that you have example.com you would not have to disclose mail.example.com uh okay okay i think i mean you should walk me through that because as i understand it um uh um uh what like so so let's take it let's hit the version of 4.1.1 right um if i guess maybe it depends on how you think the name servers work so i mean i'm imagining a situation where i have two names where i have like one name server which is like host like my external names are hosted by like say dreamhost and my internal name server is are hosted internally by some micro resolver and so um and so um when i um and so when the public resolver goes to resolve corp.example.com um uh what answers it going to give what is the ownership again it's going to get the internal let's get the internal resolution right but that how does that disclose jesus of course at example.com for his endless record like and its record for example.com um the points stream host um but then when i try to resolve corp what happens uh when you try to resolve the internal one that is not published uh publicly um you'll get an nx domain or some other failure and and so nx domain is considered sufficient to demonstrate that it should be resolved locally no but i don't understand how this works okay ben are you joining to add clarification"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:04",
    "text": "you're muted then oh thank you uh attempt to clarify it um the in the architecture you're describing essentially yes uh the existence of corp.example.com if it's if it's delegated separately uh from the rest of example.com the existence of corp.example.com becomes a matter of public record but the domains underneath it do not okay i have no personal problem sorry and that i think is in my view that that is a an entirely workable and reasonable architecture generally the existence of corp.example.com is not a secret but people might have then thousands of names underneath it that they would rather not resolve publicly so i personally agree with you however that was not the impression i got from the from the previous discussion in the discussion in the latin and that last ad hoc meeting um uh the um uh the the second question i had um and i'm sorry like i i did review this draft previously but i sort of like lost um i i sort of lost uh uh uh uh um the plot a little bit um is um are you assuming that there is um that the uh the the internal resolver is identified by domain name um and that that you have to know enough to make anything a secure connection that internal resolver or is restored to resolver um potentially if i i'll probably buy ip address um and you make it to v3 connection by name okay thank you tommy paulie please hello uh just following on on the conversation here and ben we're having"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:04",
    "text": "in that corp.example.com you could also very reasonably just have example.com so like i joined a network and it says i get all of example.com because i am the company that owns example.com and i have lots of private stuff here and there's also public things and in that case if the delegation is for all of example.com i i would just end up resolving both the internal and external things to that encrypted resolver on my local network and that's presumably okay is that how it would work yes and and that was the example that's on slide five that got corrupted during the meet you upload but it's also the example that's in the specification welcome back that eckerd work correctly because um uh then then what because as i understand it the way this works is that the um is that the public name server um responds with uh um the publication server responds with uh the name of someone to contact and um so now you're replicating they replicating the names both internally externally but the blue records this just seems like actually quite a comprehensive version to have like the idea of the who own who the name server is for example.com be different externally internally great thank you and that was the cue all right thank you um dan can you pass control back over please should have it now thank you so much sir okay so the next item on our agenda is um the never policy to use network"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "designated dns resolvers uh who's talking to this one you have it sir okay can you see the slides because we do okay wait yeah uh uh yeah i'm through from akamai so this draft is uh the problem that this draft is trying to solve is there several networks which wants endpoints to use the network signal resolvers but unfortunately they don't have any mechanism to inform the end point about this network policy if this network policy is not informed and let's say the end point is using let's say a non-network signal resolver it could cause various adverse effects like security alerts or blocking the client entirely or it could be quarantining the client so we were looking at ways to solve that problem uh beyond uh using the extended error codes if the client is directly reaching some other resolver using an ip address or other mechanisms for that what we have done is we have picked the explicit web pvd very similar to what the split horizontalness does which basically gives you extra additional information of the network and in that we have added two new case one is the key to indicate that the policy allows only using network signal dns resolvers and the reason why uh and code basically to indicate the reason why uh it wants the end point to use its the networked signal resolver and not some other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "resolver a very simplistic example is this web dvd is giving various information about prefixes when this prefixes expire and what is the identifier it's also giving additional pvds that we are introducing in this draft which is to say that it's requesting the end points to use the network signal resolver and and then internal security policy because it which it wants the endpoints to use the uh network provided resolver and the signal is just just a feedback basically it's an internal security policy expression by the operator of the network and it's definitely not a policy prescription uh the endpoints can definitely ignore and try to use uh public resolvers if they are reachable and and they can continue to establish communication uh this this uh we are currently proposing it as a strictly opt-in for explicitly trusted networks by the end user it could be used in any network it would also be used in let's say enterprise networks without mdm for example nowadays we are seeing various uh types of pod devices with uh a very lightweight host agent which only conveys the poster assessment back to the enterprise network and we don't have a fully uh managed mdm kind of a device so in those kind of devices where we don't have a configuration profile or an mdm this would also be quite useful uh any comments and suggestions are welcome whether this is the right working group for this so do you think there is a there's interest to solve this problem polly please all right um thank you so i i had one comment on the use and interpretation of a provisioning domain here which is that it seems a little odd"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "for this provisioning domain to tell you don't use another resolver because using another resolver implies that the device is essentially using another provisioning domain because a provisioning domain is the set of all of the configuration like ip addresses and prefixes and dns server so you know even if my system is choosing to use other dns resolvers for particular use cases it still has the provisioning domain defined for this network as the one with the network resolver and that always should be the case um so i i think it's the problem i have here is in how do i interpret this because let's say i have another provisioning domain which is a vpn that i'm using that vpn has its own dns resolver since one of my pvds told me don't use any other dns other than mine should i now say like i'm not allowed to use vpn or i'm not allowed to use my cellular network which has its own dns like it gets a bit complicated and perhaps if we wanted to go down this route it would be better to express it as a upfront claim that by the way this network will intentionally try to block traffic to known public resolvers or to vpns or to proxies or essentially telling telling you up front here is the kind of adversarial security stance you're going to encounter on this network rather than telling a device oh you shouldn't use someone else's dns because that interpretation seems to be much fuzzier okay so you're using just uh had a flag"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "to indicate that and we're good to go okay i was that it tommy it looks like it uh ben please hey uh as i said on the on the mailing list that i don't uh i don't like this general direction um i think that that we're we're this draft is really trying to trying to fix a problem that that isn't fixable and it's trying to work in a space that i think is not where we should be focusing our efforts and not where the the future of secure networking is you talked a little bit about lightweight host agents as an alternative to mdm you know the the behavior that i'm seeing more commonly is um is device is partitioned device state where the device has an mdm inside a contained profile that is separate from um from other profiles so you could call this i guess you could call this byod if you want but actually the network only ever interacts with a container that is effectively a fully managed device so it's not really byod in the way that we usually talk about it it's a like it's a secure network where only fully managed devices or contacts can access the network and in that context we don't need any of this because the network ad administrators have total control over the network configuration inside that container yeah i agree ben i mean if you have a body device within container which is a split configuration profile which is fully managed mdm you don't require that but this is this use case is specifically for networks where you don't have that kind of configuration profile specific mdm great thank you martin"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "i would like to point out one thing i uh the thing is quite uh important uh i think that uh any uh other for example doh third-party resolver should be opt-in by definition not opt out so uh if is this this is the case then we would not need uh some signaling that uh use on in this dns because uh usually at my point of view uh you don't have in most of the cases you won't have any benefits running third-party dns in the first place there might be some cases when there's a censorship or dns of some filtering or something like this but it should be the user it should be the one which says the computer to use other dns and if so then there should be no way how to block user from doing so some implementation like i think the mozilla which activates that uh by default the third party i think it would be even harmful to user privacy by giving the information of a resolution to a third party which wouldn't have this information in the first place so i think it's uh uh important to uh somehow state that uh make some even a recommendation rfc about using those third parties in the first place and then uh maybe solve the issue of signaling that okay don't use it if there will be no the link to update such recommendations or do such recommendations then yes we probably need some standard form of signaling"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "of not using third parties but i think it should be first opt in i mean whether it's opt-in or opt-out what we have seen is we have seen endpoints joining enterprise networks with using third-party resources we don't know whether the user has explicitly configured its use or it was a pre-loaded software which came with and pre-built third party resolver that it was hard coded and allowed to use but then with all these metal boxes and dns filtering we are forced to basically block those and what we are seeing is uh the end user basically seeing that it's unable to connect to the internet and that's causing lots of turmoil and uh and concerns with regard to uh not able to uh use the use the enterprise networks and if you see any dns filtering enterprise genius filtering service that you see today has a policy which is basically categorizing some of these non-network provided resolvers as anonymous resolvers and blocking them but i i see that as an uh half-baked solution it's not fully solving the problem that it's actually causing the end point to degrade to uh dns or 53 uh and and that's the whole reason this graph talks about that hey if somebody's downgrading you prompt the user and let the user make a choice if it wants to connect to the encrypted results provided by the network whether it's a trusted network or not and and then then make a call whether uh this this blocking by the network is something that the user is willing to uh agree and fall back to clear text dns or wants to just abandon this network because it doesn't trust the network and wants to do some connect to some other network but but it's it's basically trying to improve the user because what what is happening at the network is just happening and in one way without giving them a hint to the user on why why it's not able to reach this resource whether it's because the server is down or or my routes are down or is it because the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "network is blocking it that's the feedback it is giving back to the user okay and what important model user or end implementation would do is is this it empowers the endpoint and the user to make right choices after that okay i just wanted to say that it should be a good idea it would be a good idea to do some kind of recommendation or even bcp for for this uh usage of these uh third parties thank you great thank you martin and tiru um lorenzo you are the last for this draft uh hey lorenzo collier um yeah i'm sort of a little bit confused why you know what what effect this might have right like in general like devices will default to the network provided dns resolvers if they don't do that it's usually because they have a reason not to do it and you know that reason might be an application that wants to use its own dns resolver and uh or the user configured it to use a different dns resolver in none of those cases will such a hint help um it will just basically tell the device what it already knows that this network doesn't meet its security requirements and you know present the choice to the user um the device already has to deal with any network that blocks these third-party resolvers without using this option and it doesn't seem like having this option would be any sort of meaningful improvement in security or user experience or anything really because the choices that are that are presented to the to the owner of the device are the same regardless of whether it's blocked intentionally or not it doesn't work and so the user has to decide whether fallback is appropriate so i don't see why having a hint would be useful yeah it could be that yeah i mean if it's blocked and if there's an alternative that the user wants to pick"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "because let's say some resolver is not reachable versus a network actively blocking it is a quite different scenario which is probably fixable after a few seconds uh if there's a router flap or my routes are not up but this is this is saying that if you join the network it's blocked indefinitely okay thank you lorenzo and teru and back to you glenn well not for very long teru you are up again you have one more uh slide set to present so why don't you just keep control um the next topic is uh dns resolver info uh the draft uh interior of 10 minutes plus some discussion time sure yeah i'll keep it short i mean this draft was discussed several times in the working group in the past there was a lot of feedback that we got on this draft but at that time the high priority was to make progress on dnr and area and this draft took a backseat so we're trying to bring it back to the just remind the working group of this work and whether we want to adapt this work because at that time we had addressed all the comments from the working group so this was basically introduced because we had in our charter that we would like to provide more information about the dns resolver beyond what's being conveyed with the discovery mechanisms that are there and that would probably help the client making a selection decision i mean we already have two mechanisms for discovering uh dns resolvers but we don't have a mechanism to discover uh what is the appropriate dns interesting uh dns resolver information and that functionality is missing and that's what this craft is trying to provide so what we have done as part of this draft is introduce a new resource record type called resinfo it could be either used with dnr or ddr with dnr it will be used with the domain name and with ddr it would be used with resolver. and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "we're basically retaining structured json and uh we have defined several feeds based on the discussions that we had working in the working group to remove several ones which were not agreed upon and we we stuck to an minimal uh set of fields that there was strong consensus at that point of time and the and the two mechanisms which basically that this draft talks about either uh after you establish a secure connection you can download this resolver information from the encrypted dns server or it could be prior to establishing the dns connection you could do if you have the local dns validation enabled you could use you could use dns as well to make sure no one samples this data so basically the current list of uh discovered information is basically whether the resolver supports q name minimization whether it has support for extended dns error codes whether it requires any client authentication or not and an url that points to a generally constructed resolver information it could have various http status error codes it would trace it return whom to contact for troubleshooting and the do jps supported and an url that points to a human-friendly description of the resolver identity and we could add a lot more information based on the discussion in the working group and the request and adoption for this draft and any comments on this draft has become hi ben schwartz uh i i think we should probably adopt this draft um i think of this as uh finally a replacement for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:02",
    "text": "the like weird chaos zone bind dot version thing or like various other weird implementation specific uh resolver configuration info records that the different implementations have kind of just kind of put out there in in on squatting on different names uh i feel like you know there's proof that that people want that kind of information and we should provide a more standard way to do it i'm not exactly sure that the specific metadata mentioned in this draft is what we want to present but uh but i think some mechanism like this is worthwhile and this is a good enough starting point yeah thanks ben thank you ben uh dkj um i it's hard to hear you uh sorry is this any better yeah um i can i can see ben's point about uh we should probably adopt something like this just so there is a standard way to do it i want to flag two specific concerns um one of them is that uh reporting lots of details about a given machine's configuration in other contexts has caused uh concerns right i believe for example a lot of web servers are reluctant to report things like the version of the web server that they're running even though they used to do that so that typically i think is for security concerns but in this uh thank you for going to this slide this this slide in particular i'm concerned about the bindings between the urls here um and the actual service and what's to stop me from pointing to a url that describes some other server and people using that to make a decision i feel like this is a there's some really sort of problematic uh dynamics here if if this discovered"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "information is actually used to select a resolver um i don't even know how you know that you're getting the resolver that these urls describe um and that seems like an issue i also am very reluctant to to include this required client authentication just because client authentication for dns resolvers uh is not generally currently done and uh you know the idea that somebody has a list of every dns lookup that i made associated with me personally is is pretty troubling so i you know those are these are these are my main caveats about the data that's being offered here um and i i agree that if we're gonna define something that's worth having it in this group that's good feedback thanks daniel i i think i get your point with regard to i think you're referring to an attack where and malicious dns server basically points to an url which which takes you to somewhere with regard to uh some bad feedback to the user in prompting to do something uh which would uh damage the endpoints poster i get that my concern is more that like i set up my own resolver i know that uh say cloudflare publishes some policies where people are generally fine with i set up my own resolver and the discovered information i say oh by the way you can check out um details about my resolver you can see that it's um uh it's and i just point to cloudflare's data is that anyone looking at the at the pieces of information is like oh yeah that's player i'll use that but it's not it's actually my server thanks thank you dkg echo please yeah i think the key point actually is the one that the just made a second ago which is it's not actually that the terms of cloudflare offers are great that you look and you're like oh it's cloudflare this is totally criminal right um because like obviously you could just copy the terms right um uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "um i think if if so i think i i would just i would say especially spanish in two ways um one is is anybody gonna use it um and i guess i'd like to ask like um which uh which client providers um seem likely to report this data in any void of the user um i don't believe we would um and i'd like so i guess i like that you know i don't see time policies here maybe tiny jensen's here um maybe they could talk about whether they'd be i'm interested in providing this to users because um you know we can publish as much as we want but if no one's going to surface it then it's not worth doing um second i think that the point dkg made um i think makes it really clear that like it has to be that there has to be some cryptographic binding between the published information and the server itself um as opposed to merely a simple assertion so i guess i'll be more excited about adopting this if i hear from someone who just think it says they would use it sure great thank you ecker please all right could you hear from google i think extending some of the comments just made i would say it makes sense to separate out the information which is provided into two parts one is purely protocol specific like where the queue name is supported ede is supported etc and any other information which is more policy like like the urls or anything else maybe even two separate endpoints or two separate uh rr types for them just to separate them out and in terms of implementation i would say maybe for the protocol features we look at extending edns zero to encapsulate that information and i can share more thoughts there on the list itself"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "thanks for anything great thank you penny and glenn that looks like that was the cube well um thank you could you uh pass control back over to myself please yes and uh the next one we're gonna have up is um ben um schwartz and ben let me pass control over to you so you can present i don't see ben in the queue did ben drop okay thank you ben hello okay this should be this should be quick so this is about uh a an individual draft that uh is from me and chris box although it's it's based on observations made by a lot of other people who've thought about the problem of how ddr acts with good old-fashioned local dns forwarders on your home router and that sort of thing as a reminder this is the situation we're talking about you have a client with a local network ip address they're talking to a dns forwarder they were told you know your dns server is at this local ip address it's actually they don't know this necessarily but it's actually just a forwarder to some upstream recursive probably operated by an isp a lot of isps have have set up encrypted resolver support which is great but these clients aren't able to access it because ddrs default upgrade rules say that the uh the the ip address has to match"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "in this case and effectively it doesn't it can't match and you can't prove cryptographically you you can't prove ownership of a private ip address so so could we get dns over tls here and what this draft does is it describes it's purely informational because it describes a client policy and clients have all kinds of very strong opinions about what their resolver selection policies should look like so this draft doesn't attempt to tell anybody what they ought to do it just tries to go through and describe a client policy that would upgrade in this in this situation or really a family of client policies that that would be able to upgrade in this situation and also identifies as some some of the problems that come up when you try to do that and also offers or describes some mitigations that apply to those problems although um you know don't necessarily totally resolve them and you know ultimately the judgment of which of these problems are relevant which of these mitigations are sufficient uh you know this draft doesn't address that and leaves that in the hands of essentially client implementers to consider but it does try to describe in detail what the consequences are likely to be so this has been presented here before it hasn't really changed since the last ietf one change that's been valuable is that the ddr draft language has been slightly adjusted so that it's clear that the the ddr default client policy is not the only policy that's allowed uh that's now very clear in the ddr draft and we're seeking adoption here for this draft thanks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:01",
    "text": "thanks ben and let me let me make a couple comments on the adoption um so the main concern that the chairs have expressed was that this particular draft was bad you're on the air uh glenn was when are you done saying what you were saying no no all right i did you repeat that i i had my audio set up wrong okay man i i was going to say that um the chair's main concern with the adoption call was they had little discussion on the list um so that's why you know been presented here today he's put some stuff on the list um you know i think we're ready to issue the uh adoption call uh but it would be really great to hear from the members of the add uh family on on their thoughts on those drives so i i guess then the short answer is we will be issuing the the adoption calls soon um and we look forward to hearing what people think okay thank you terry please hey hey ben i've configured the draft and uh it's a good start and i definitely support adapting it but i had several concerns on some of the deployment models that you had captured in especially if you go back to the slide we're talking about uh the legacy router not being uh uh upgradeable to support to activity servers i see one i see two types of legacy servers that are always there legacy servers whose firmware could be updated versus legacy routers whose firmware cannot be updated and this seems to be supporting both the cases and the third one is basically hey the isp can manage the home router and it can change the configuration in which case this draft is not required right and covering the threat models in all these cases and especially uh one uh security considerations that i saw this mitigation this draft talks about was uh the two mitigations that he talks about was basically one relying on a trr"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "i was wondering how this would scale with so many diverse trrs being used by browsers and operating systems how would this be deployable and the second one was with regard to uh relying on end user uh empowering end user is something great but my bigger concern is what if what if let's say there's a phishing attack and an attacker shows me and resolver identity which looks and feels like it's provided by let's say comcast right and and that would basically you know the end user would be assuming it's connecting to a comcast isp resolver and uh uh but in fact connecting to an uh phishing uh or a malicious dns encrypted dns resolver and how do you plan to address these issues thanks to um that's a lot of different things i'm not sure that um that i can track them all and respond to all those points um i'll try the um on the topic of upgradeability um i think there's a lot of subtlety there there's uh for example it may be possible to change the configuration of certain routers but not really add major new features like tls termination so uh probably they can't we can just uh expect routers to just add support for tls um that would leave the you know the only thing that they could do would be to synthesize a a null and you know an nx domain or a no data ddr response which doesn't help so uh let's see um on the topic of um of user interactive mitigations uh i think you know as i said this draft is informational it's not designed to recommend particular behaviors here um if you think there's a concern you know some of these mitigations are really essentially impractical or irrelevant we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:02",
    "text": "could remove them but otherwise that we're just trying to be descriptive here the i do think that the attack you describe is not something that seriously concerns me because any attacker who's in a position to do anything like that would uh equally be in a position to simply prevent ddr altogether uh leaving the user sending their dns and clear text and leaving the attacker in full control of the dns stream so uh in general you know clients shouldn't if if the client is encrypting their their dns traffic and sending it to a dns server that they can identify but don't know anything about that shouldn't change the client or user agent's threat posture in any way they still don't know whether they're talking to the attacker so uh so i don't see a big difference there sure uh i would like to have a question about the this private ip thing for changing the policy of the client uh how this would actually work with the v6 when there is no typical private address uh there shouldn't be is there some kind of policy of matching uh prefixes or uh something like this also with the private ipv4 address i suppose that it would uh it's referring to fresno dns uh resolver uh not uh when the resolver has a public ip address and the forwarding server does not hi"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "uh i'm i'm sorry my i actually lost connection for a couple seconds while you were speaking um but let me i think i can answer your question but if i get it wrong maybe you can repeat some the so the this draft um the concept in this draft it describes cases where the the dns the local dns forwarder is identified by a non-public ip address that is obviously very common in ipv4 networks it is definitely somewhat less common in ipv6 networks it is not ruled out in ipv6 networks ipv6 gateways that are operating forwarder are free to use a a local ip address a link local or whether there's a few different ipv6 non-public ranges um there's and i believe that's well supported um relatively common so uh so that's always an option um otherwise the recommendations or sorry they're not recommendations it's it's uh you know it walks it it's a little delicate but the um the the situation where this applies is um [Music] is logically applicable to each advertised dns server independently that is ddr applies to each server separately rather than to the collection of advertised servers so on dual stack networks um this will apply to the ipv4 resolvers even if somehow some of the resolvers like ipv6 lovers are not eligible and then again it's a matter of client policy to figure out well i have several different resolvers i was able to do ddr for some of them but not others you know does that how does that influence the way i send queries"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:02",
    "text": "okay thank you very much and i do have also uh one point to ddr itself i know it's probably a little bit too late uh but uh why the ddr itself uses the resolver.arpa when there was probably the pvd that would allow to use something like underscore resolver dot pvd domain this would allow a dns uh validation of this information and also ddr seems to solve uh the detection of doh problem with the path uh wouldn't be better to update rfc 8484 to reso to limit the path to something like uh uniform d url url sorry uh uh also i've seen in ddr draft dot with a different port is it wise to allow different port and ddr thank you very much so the for the path and port comments you might want to uh you might want to take those to the the comments on the the service bdns draft which the chairs just closed the last call on but that's that's where those are specified um i can i can speak to those topics but um maybe the chairs should should tell me how much time we have we actually have enough time but we do have two more people in the queue so um okay so so briefly i'll say that i i think the path component issue is um is fundamentally there because do was was already specified and widely deployed with uh with path components so there are um many dns many doe"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:02",
    "text": "resolvers already out there that that have a specified path and and we wanted to make sure that it was possible to uh to to specify those dom servers in the in in the ddr context um for the port number um the the port number specification is uh is something that is it is optional for clients so and it's up to every client to decide whether they support this but it's it's especially useful when running many different servers on the services that need to be disambiguated instead of you know if you're trying to for example run dns servers with different behaviors you can share an ip address and run them on different port numbers uh and uh it's also helpful in in other contexts related to dns um where where non-standard port numbers are an issue but uh maybe we should talk more about that yeah i think um at this point uh we are getting near the end of the session and i'd like to get tommy and eric in the queue so thank you martin and please continue on the list or as necessary out of band thank you tommy please let's see okay um yeah i agree with ben's points to this last question so we can help explain what's there but i don't think those aspects are going to change i think those are the right calls um so ben on your draft um i i appreciate that it's not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "normative but i'm wondering if in section three that defines this relaxed validation policy we may want to be a bit more prescriptive not necessarily normative but it essentially just says it defines the client policy as you just use opportunistic and you just try it and it points to that the fact that this kind of validation can be valuable when combined with some of the mitigations but i wonder if we should have a bit stronger of a recommendation to say that no really you need to go and read the security considerations blow and you need to think about the mitigations i'm just a bit concerned someone would read it and say well look they've defined a policy where i can just use whatever i get back from this dns record willy-nilly and i don't think that's we should indicate that that would not be a good idea even if we don't make it normative yeah it's a little unclear to me whether normative language is allowed in informational documents i'm not suggesting making it normative necessarily we just say like you would have a bad privacy time and yeah you'd be probably making a wrong decision if you don't have a mitigation right uh speaking with only a partial hair a hat on i will say um that i personally am in favor of it however when i've tried to do it i've also been pointed out by other people in the itf that not so fast so it is an unresolved point okay um i i think that that we can take we can definitely incorporate tommy's feedback here and improve the the you know warning about sharp edges eric"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "um uh eric you have the mic but you might be muted locally uh eric please come back eric nygren is back okay yes um now unmute yourself there he is oh what's going on there eric well maybe it's time for jabber yeah permissions issues he's having so um was it going to be your question no probably not oh he just went offline he may be back in a second so why don't we give him a second to join by does anybody else want to jump into the queue while we wait for eric to return nope we're not accepting anybody else in the queue glenn oh it looks like eric is going to work this time yes we hear you whoo um i that um following up on some of the conversation in the chat i think it's worth looking into the ipv6 side of this a little more um in particular i'm doing some more review of what's actually and what what's used in practice here um there may be a lot of it seems likely that that a a common use case will be for um um to use the um like this is the gateway address which would be a or a public or a public address in the same 64 as a client as the resolver and if that's a very very common scenario it may be worth having some guidance around those common ipv6 scenarios so we don't get um stuck there or not work in in some of the the commonly deployed ipv6 only networks hopefully not the same 64. no the a very common case would be the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "same squash 64 it's a client huh that's definitely not in keeping with the ipv6 group guidance for isps i think this is one where where it's worth looking at it it's worth looking at what which what a client support and what do um and what are isps tend um tend to deploy and then based upon that seeing what to use i i think that we have um there we have kind of a more fundamental problem um of trying to trying to figure out what what it would mean to [Music] essentially validate the locality of a public address [Music] you know if i have a dns server identified by a public ip address ddrs baseline logic says well it's a public ip address they could get a certificate to prove control of it and essentially the the the questions that we end up with here are things like well how do what if i could prove that i'm so close to this address that i'm just as good a judge of its authenticity as anybody um you know and so we've had we've had suggestions on the list for example about like well could use the hop count could you you know set your set your ttl to 2 and ping it and see if you can reach it uh and then you know that's close enough uh i think we've we haven't seen any of those that seem i think plausible enough that that they would be deployable so my my question to flip your question around would be okay that's you know the common deployment practice uh maybe is is to use a public ip address there but how hard would it be to just uh you know also drop a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:00",
    "text": "a link local address into the dhcp or into the ipv6 ra rd well the link localism um introduces a whole bunch of scope issues that i think there's a question on how will clients support those and it's unclear what the the security property how the security properties between a a link local versus a on link in the same 64 differ uh yeah so well there's a difference between um there's a difference between link local and onlink right um you know depending on how your network is structured uh you know the the router's ip address might not actually be in the same like you know neighbor discovery collision segment as as the client or whatever um but uh anyway i think this is certainly if if we can find reasonable ideas here this is definitely something that we can incorporate great thank you eric and thank you ben over to you glenn for the wrap up yeah hi everybody so um great great session um today uh add is always a place where people talk and exchange ideas and it's been pretty awesome i want to say you know reflecting just for a second we started out as and i can't remember if we've ever actually met in person for add i remember we had several boss before we went live but i kind of think we did all of the last two years and all these drafts all virtual and so i just kind of want to thank the authors and all the commenters and everybody who's been along for the last two years of this ride we've got a couple documents that are pretty much ready for working last call or in working group let's call it and about to move forward so well done everybody so thank you for all the time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:01",
    "text": "and effort people put into adv over the last two years all online that's amazing so we'll see you in philly um that's the next uh destination i guess for add um and we'll see you in july be well everybody the meeting has ended yeah yeah yeah this is yeah right i'm not sure i got all of eric comments but that's like my usual i don't know native speaker challenge but again he can edit them"
  }
]
