[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:25",
    "text": "hello welcome hello hello hi Mark yeah I think that I think the microphone works yeah I do Mike good idea now anyone going to fast them I am"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "yes I would be there I'll be there on Saturday but train work that forces me to leave on Sunday on the uh on Saturday for me too uh I do presentation about ffv1 foreign pause them on 2023 oh two oh four yes in media Dev room what what what time are you know okay good to know uh three minutes after Dave we have Dave does he have a microphone yeah I have a microphone today hi wow good uh did we have a meeting in December uh I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "I believe we had one meeting after uh after uh no time to wait okay maybe I missed it do I need do I need to grab do I need is that the one you had the the uh migraine for maybe maybe that's why I don't remember it I will I will chase that down and okay I probably put the wrong uh minutes then here uh to um confirm can you throw the right correct minutes in there then uh absolutely um so I probably yeah got that wrong uh all right so um attendees mostly meet Echo will take care of that uh we have uh uh Michael get that wrong and Michael Michael we had a meeting on uh on December 6th and I just found that so yes we did and I'm moving that now okay anyone get a chance to read those notes they I will say that they were said to the the uh the mailing list which doesn't mean yes but so it couldn't have been that this must still be wrong okay you're deleting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:27",
    "text": "uh so yeah yeah okay so the new the the fresh meeting should be in the right place okay thank you okay okay all right so let's um dive into these um and are there any objectives to those to those minutes any corrections you know um okay I turned this uh status thing into a table um thank you Kodak parmie thank you codex control ffe1 uh flock still waiting for Shepard right up I think yes okay and you're the shepherd right yes you know when you'll finish that not today okay is that is that a forecast date that you're putting out there or uh no this was the date the last uh post update okay yeah and yeah and then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "um foreign I'll put that then um okay matroska so I saw that lots of merges happened in the last week we had the 80 evaluation uh come back and uh let's talk about that in the matroska slot any other updates to any of these documents that we should mention from anybody I mean I think I posted a new version of sfv1 version 4 but it didn't actually have any content differences it was just implementing it to avoid exploration yeah I think you did that on the December 4th probably according to this yeah oh I went through the I actually went through the doc through the data tracker thank you um oh yeah somewhere's here I was supposed to uh remind you of the note well you've all seen many times and the code of conduct to be kind to each other having done that let's go on let's talk about matroska so uh documents returned from the 80 with comments we had lots of issues merged do you want me to pull up Steve do you want me to pull up uh any issues that are giving you problems um left two I can put the link while it's 700 and 719 um that's a pull request yes 719 and this one no yes 700 is from the 80 review"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "so basically uh I realized from the review that the uh ietf uuids are actually a the values inside actually have a meaning there are Parts in it with difference meaning and this is not what we have in matrosca and it was never like that I don't think we should move it that way so basically the UniQue Ideas we have in matroscare are not actually you your ideas so I went back and reverting the change that we made to do that so that's the full request I think it's correct the only issue is whether we keep on naming them uuids or we go back to New IDs as before as well it might be confusing for people if they're called uuids they might expect that they have a special meaning but then if they read the space they'll see it's not special meaning [Music] um on the other end it's nice to keep the name because there's a lot of existing code with formatting and things like that that could be useful so um I'm gonna mention that actually uh the uid spec is actually being revised um and I wonder if this version 4 which is random random random except for a few bits there and there um I think that matroska used them as just random just expected them to be completely random yes so what I would say is why not say they"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "are uuids uh version 4 uuids um are recommended to be used but that uh readers must tolerate must treat them as opaque 128 bit strings or uh and um and that's it yeah we can do that that way you get to call them uuids and uh it tells people how to generate them which is just random um unless you want some other version uh um which probably you don't time ordered so some of these are are designed for instance to be time ordered so that um um they will insert into databases in the particular order for instance you can sort them um uh and then there's version eight which is basically uh we don't know do whatever you like yeah so V4 is the one with the most random Beats yep so we want that to be uh uuid V4 I would say just recommended to use uuid V4 and expect it to be whatever uh there uh uh that's what I would say okay I'll do that uh randomly generated okay let's talk about the other issue then do not deprecated IDs yeah so I wanted to discuss that one as well because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "uh basically [Music] in the spec so we have a lot of deprecated ideas or some a lot of elements that were never used that had an idea assigned to them so technically right now the spec says that you couldn't reuse these IDs and my proposal was to not be allowed to reuse them for maximum backward compatibility on the other end it's that means we lose a lot of uh very valuable ideas especially the ones in one octet one byte how many is that nice it's I think I listed them in the issue or in the comments [Music] yes so that's like a dozen or more yeah so where where have they been used experimentally when have they been used experimentally uh probably never because when we deprecate something that's because no one used it or used it wrong but mostly never used it so is it out there in the field in any dot any media I don't think so well then I would just say I mean put them back respect we're public for 20 years so people who found the spec may have used it for something and we don't know I mean what I suggest that we do is that we move them we mark them as uh returned"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "rather than reserved um and we simply instruct Ayanna to use these last we're curious so we would have to run out of all of the other uh one byte codes which could take us to 20 years or I don't know um and then we would come back and use these okay for the two byte and three byte and four byte and five byte IDs I think we can afford to just lose them yeah there's room I'm more worried about the one byte right okay so I put that down so I don't forget I'm capturing that in the notes also if that's helpful thanks so what this means is that we would have to before we started using them we would have to have exhausted all the other ones and yeah then when we went to allocate them we would know that they were uh returned and so we might actually you know that point ask a question like is it has anyone seen such a thing um and you know we might get evidence that it's actually out there and it was act then we might might provide some um like Telemetry some reviews the fact that it might be out there or yeah also in the NX I think NX in the document there's actually each deprecated element as a name and what it and a short"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "description of what it was used for so at least it's not some number that people have to be to find out right was it already there in document so let's mark them as returned um that way uh I think that's the right term Spencer do you think so I think so I think I think that I think that's a perfectly I think so it's a perfectly fine term and someone will tell us what the fine term is if that's not it and and we're and this is only for the one byte IDs right yeah we went through this with DHCP option codes where for instance one of them which are also one byte um and and worse than that half of those were at one point uh turned over as vendor private or something yeah um and then we we said okay no no there's a different way to do this but like uh like the cap Port working group got a number assigned at first and then discovered uh when doing an experimental deployment that polycom phones all crashed and it's because they had used it as a um a code for their configuration file and uh well they got confused when the wrong thing data showed up and they crashed which is really their own fault um uh but anyway calport managed to get another code assigned to it instead to switch codes when uh revising the document so it happens um but you just uh yeah it would have been good if we had known that this was used or if someone had done it okay anything else not from me I'll do that this weekend and then I'll push a new version which can be sent to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "further back to Murray okay that's perfect anybody else any questions about where we are in this document I did send it I did send the No Doubt uh to the group about remembering that this is a uh the output of a working of the working group so if there's anything that you're curious about in the document this is an excellent time to point that out I mean especially if we've made changes since it left the working group okay should we go on it'd be good for that Martin do you have any Flack issues you want to uh bring up I guess you're waiting for the write-up week we did have that we did have the one question that was uh and uh asked today on the mailing list oh I must have missed yeah the document really describes the format and it explains how to decode into parse it and there are some remarks about encoding what what should be written or should not be written but uh I was looking at the Opus um that's another codec Opus RFC a few days ago and I noticed that they had a sectional encoding so how to encode certain stuff and I looked in the MP3 specification it was also a section about encoding um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "scope but well I was just curious I just wanted to put the question out there but I would be well and useful well people tend to focus on getting the decoder right because once you know the rules for the decoder then you can innovate on the side of encoding within those within that space um and uh every knowing that everyone can do it and that's what Jerome says here I guess um um and people sometimes don't want to nail down the encoder too much because they feel that it unnecessarily um it unnecessarily tells the decoder things that may not always be true right yes I agree yeah so I would say that's up to this working group to what extent we we would like to have an example uh of doing this or a reference and I think it's okay that it doesn't have to be normative I think that's the whole point is the encoding is is done which with whatever the best technology is right now um and as long as the decoder can can parse it it's it's good right yes yes I agree I was just curious whether for example everyone uh was in that line of thinking um so we agree that that there's there is no need to explain anything about what possibilities there are to encode and what strategies you can just leave that out right I think so yeah I think that was the only one that uh was mentioned on the mailing list though"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:04",
    "text": "all right anything else I I had nothing else for Flack yeah waiting on the shepherd's write-up um I did find a few because I keep experimenting with the flag software the the reference implementation I sometimes find some small details usually do a pull request for that so yeah I think you're fine too I think they should keep doing some minor minor edits as uh as we get you know uh thing and into review so so what will happen next is we'll get reviews from other areas um and some of them maybe extensive and some of them may not um but um uh and then we'll get reviews from the area directors uh and our area director right we've we've we've had a couple of documents that have gone all the way through the or you know further than this through the process so far um so uh where everybody kind of understands the uh the process here which is basically uh it gets out of the working group and then goes to the area director then goes to the ietf including review teams and then goes to the isg for uh final approval um the first time through all of this that's why I want to make sure he knows what to expect yeah yeah I've been reading up on how the process went with ffe one and look what the timeline was so uh not to get any uh well it might probably be more a a year or more I guess before that uh maybe not it doesn't it doesn't have to take that long I would say uh I would expect to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "finished by June is what I would say you're able to respond to comments right so yeah I mean you're you're super responsive and uh this is something like an 80 some 80 something page spec which you know at least it's not 400 Pages or something some of them are yes okay no nothing else for flock so I I think I know where we stand with the next step is ffv1 anyone have any idea and now I've been we've been paused on it for some time and I'm not upset about that um I just want to open the floor if there's something else that nobody said still start okay any other business um some of us will be at fosdem Iowa uh I feel the the link about the first damn presentation so the ffv1 presentation across them with date and time um I could say that there is a patch for ffmpeg for having fav1 in mxf for for mixing ffv1 in the mixer so it is waiting uh for merge so some some review and match for mxf so if everyone in mxf because ffv1 ffmpeg is the reference the encoder decoder so this one yeah and sorry I didn't catch the word in n m x f I can write it and it is a container format MX I will write it okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "it's from medical exchange format so I've never heard of that container before but apparently it's something for archival use or uh for broadcasting many uh a lot of broadcasters are using that on Netflix also at some point um so it is a very ugly container format but a lot used in the podcast setting a sandwich uh everything thrown into it right four different formats so it is also used Now by archive because archive gets some files from broadcasters and so on so um so there is a request from archive to have everyone in mxf support so there is already the decoding in ffmpeg and now there is a patch a batch proposal for a web mixing one document to reference the Senti specification that describes how to store ffv1 in in oxf because we have like um how do you how to use ffu1 in a container section in the ffv1 document it might make sense to cross-reference there I would I would sound the uh a a PF for that too and then I know there's no uh you know not much to discuss about version four of ffp1 right now but I wanted to point out there's um a small kind of wish list of what could be included in ffp1 version 4 and the issue tracker of the ffv1 spec I think there's like four or five yeah it looks like there's five items in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "there right now do we do we want to uh do we want to add that uh as a topic for next meeting um yeah I wonder if we get uh Derek uh boitness put in two of these issues two of them came from redo one was from me um the right people if we want to show up Very pository Yes somewhere else yeah they're all labeled before but it'd be good to like kind of get a list of issues out and prioritize them see who actually has interest in writing any of this stuff right okay so the homework is to go read them and have an opinion on them sounds good perfect we just wanted to make up opinions we could do it now but I think it would be more valuable if we actually do some homework all right um good man you guys I joined like a minute late and you guys were already flying and we're 31 minutes in go yeah yeah it's because we started 10 minutes before that no oh okay we did we didn't do that we did do that I connected and left the video empty and went to get water and then and when you came back uh everybody had taken over awesome that's right exactly we'll both try that next time start the meeting yeah okay well I'll see some of you at"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "fosdem in a week and a half going skiing with my brothers and we might die we never know yeah we're we're returning to the mountains pardon me if you cross the streets you can die too so yeah that's true yeah yeah apparently my apparently my dad went skiing at this at this place in in sharmani uh around this time just before I was born and leaving my pregnant mother you know alone and uh now my youngest brother will be doing the same thing as he is expecting a child in the spring uh so this is the last time he'll be allowed to potentially die and that's about it all right so good day have a good day is this my big chance to say make good choices yes that's right yes please do all right bye-bye thank you all you're right bye"
  }
]
