[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "i didn't scare her too much mike i promise just enough that's what i did yesterday it helped me anyway sessions [Music] some of some of them are just the same presenter oh yeah i don't care about the presenter i care about the time hello thank you thank you sure three minutes really you're gonna keep them oh you got you have the wrong you've got the wrong one and i just downloaded them from the data tracker kathleen if you can help us with the note takers so giddy and and i armstrong data to help but as i believe we'll probably be getting into deep discussions it would be great if you can make sure that we have the items captured yes the only i'll have a problem the last 15 minutes just because that's when i have to get my kid ready for school okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "so step three from eric start off and then basically four from ink but the the presentations and the times haven't changed right they're just the order so you don't have okay i got you i was looking at the wrong one ah i see said the blind man oh my goodness you know what no i can i can slip back and forth yeah that's true this is the only way i can keep track well given that we have a packed agenda and we're only allocating three minutes to some i'm trying to keep everybody you're being serious"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:05",
    "text": "okay well we're gonna get started so uh welcome to uh rats working group session one and uh we're gonna we're gonna go through uh a few of the chair slides to be to get started so uh just a reminder uh the uh in terms of the no note well uh information pilot i have policies on uh on ip so this is a reminder that the init that the ietf policies are in effect for various topics such as patents code of conduct that is meant to point you to the right direction exceptions may apply uh the ietf's patent policy and definition of the ihf contribution and participation are set forth in vcp 79 that information is here on this slide and available and these slides are available on the data tracker there's some meeting tips for uh for meeting today uh if you're an in-person participant make sure you sign in the session using the media echo data tracker uh also use mediaco to join the mic too keep audio and video off if not using on-site version and for those in the room please keep your mask on for those who are would like you to do that remote participants make sure that your audio and video are off unless you're sharing or presenting during a session and use of the headset is strongly recommended uh the resources for this meeting are are here and available on data tracker if you wanted to access those and uh just a reminder for the code of conduct uh extend respect and courtesy to your colleagues at all times uh have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "them personal uh discussion uh device solutions for the global internet that meet the needs of diverse technical and operational environments and be prepared to contribute to the ongoing work of the group anything else just quick agenda bash so um we're gonna flash through this really fast hopefully everybody can hear us fine if you can't you can put it in the uh in the jabber um and we'll try and do better get closer to the mic so as you can see and if you flip to the next slide we have a very packed agenda for today hopefully you guys have seen this because i don't know that we have a lot of time we're already one minute over in our our time slot to bash it um so i'm going to do a call once twice no changes let's go ahead and get started too late no sorry go ahead hank what's the change i think that i i subtly changed the order of the agenda i'm sorry for that because the the presentation blob is i think doing daa after uccs now so that that's just a minor thing but i think the root sequence is like off now if it's all in sort of a group yeah go in whatever order just as long yeah make sure that i'm presenting what it is you're talking to yeah and i have everybody's slides i think i have everybody's slides together uh and so i could present for you if you like that's what i want to say i think in the interest of time we will be presenting the slides you tell us how to flip them uh so the only challenge would be if the order is changed yeah if the orders changed from what was in the so so the first first up is eric eric hey everybody can you hear me yes we can good morning eric let's go"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "uh good morning to you guys um i'm gonna do an update on shara and as you can see we're up to version 18 if you've been following the list we've been going through the isg next slide and before i get into chara the details just to remind you and review the set of relationships between documents we have interaction models uh r4c uh network device attest you'll hear that from guy later and the rest that you'll be hearing now uh and uh so there's a deep set of relationships between a lot of the giraffes that are being progressed and a number of them are at the isg next slide we are just about at a pass at the isg there are two discusses which i believe are minor and might also be closed at this point we think we've answered all the comments that are there so we need one more vote in order to close the document changes that have occurred during the isg review include adding a appendix describing ima doing some reference changes and doing some xpath uh syntax tweaks uh i really don't think there's anything that's a blocker at this point next slide and that's that one so that'll help you get back on track right there any questions on chara before i go to the next one all right thanks for watching event stream subscription and this one will be even shorter just to make sure we uh get through stuff uh what uh what event stream subscription is is it uh takes chara and the subscription work over in the netcomf working group to make sure that you can get a stream of uh tpm uh measurements off of a router or another device"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "and the goal here is to be able to not have to do challenge response which is what chara really talks about but instead get a stream of information when the pcrs are changing in a tpm and so the result is a verifiably fresh set of evidence flowing from one device to another next slide status uh it's stable there have been many comments have been some updates we've been doing this mostly because as we close out chara we should be able to after char is done with the iesg to go ahead and write a social and socialize a security considerations document and then go to working group last call it really is not a big document it should not be a controversial one but since we have a dependency on chara we are sort of completing that work before going and requesting working group last call out of this group and that's pretty much the update for this any questions on um on the subscription work none from the room excellent and last deck and here's the r4c and we'll keep on going so next slide it's broken into two parts the first part is the information element definitions for attestation results that are generated by verifier to support interactions secure interactions between a tester and relying party and so the first part is really about claims effectively claims that are generated for secure interaction support between two devices the second part is end-to-end implementation options"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "via a background check model and what we call ar augmented evidence which is a combination of a background check and a passport model there are two implementations of this out there trusted path routing which does things with a tpm as well as verizon which is an open sports project and i haven't updated the slide because it actually has been adopted by the confidential compute consortium so that you can make the interaction models with the information elements work in confidential compute type of deployments and so this really is a general uh draft aimed at multiple types of uh testers next slide now there's been a number of changes since uh itf 112 first thing is working group adoption and thanks everybody for chiming in and providing comments it was a good set of discussions on that we've done a bit of text clarifications on the values of specific trustworthiness claims and trustworthiness claims are types of attestation results again that are generated for the purpose of understanding the trustworthiness of one device for another there's also been mailing list comparisons with the eat security level and mailing list comparisons of the eat software results we'll have one slide on the software results but again we're just doing a quick update also we've been aligning the trusted path routing document we have a new uh author there because of the the additions from meling ching from china mobile so we are continuing to percolate that draft but we're not requesting working group adoption until we really get some market uptake there are at least some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "people that are testing the service out but there's no point in standardizing it until we have some more general uh adoption to make sure people are going to go and stay with the same type of deployment next slide now quick highlight on trust reminisce claims and trust rhythmist claims uh as i said before this is an older slide and i say it's based on the passport model it's really a combination of the top half of the interaction model which is a background check with a passport model and i highlighted from the slide verifier b and this is because we've had some discussions on the mailing list about what's the difference between attestation results that are being sent from uh in the passport model effectively from a central place to again a a relying party that also has a verifier on it and so highlighting that there's a difference between attestation results and the new evidence which is then sent off to a verifier b in the last step here is very important because the relying party and verifier b is a multi-uh role that is gotta be well understood as we define the information elements that are part of the ar augmented evidence next slide uh other thing that i'm going to pull out and we're not going to read the text here there are a number of design principles around the ar and in this case the ar for trustworthiness claims and these are important as well for when you're designing attestation results and these have been in the draft for about a year or so at this point and it's very important to ins understand what you're trying to to nail down as the rules that you're using to create ar in this case they're exposing a small"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "uh enumerating very explicit states making sure that you have very explicit definitions that rp developers understand and you ex support standard and non-standard extensibility and as we go through the trustworthiness claims in future itfs making sure that these trustworthiness claim uh rules are hit makes things a lot easier for the implementer of the creation of the attestation results and their digestion by a policy language sitting in the relying party policy uh on the foreign device on the right from the last slide all right and last slide we're going to probably talk about this more later in the day here as we go ahead and talk about some of the items that lawrence wants to do this is a table that has undergone some discussion on the mailing list over the last few weeks and that is the comparison of the intent and design of some of the trustworthiness claims for executables and file system and some of the claims over in the east side with software results which i think might be getting renamed and while we dive into it i wanted to highlight that there are certain things that we want to make sure that we handle when we look at the various uh specific objects that we're handling for example these things are what is the target that's being evaluated what are the number of includable states and how understandable are they and how complex is the language for then having a policy on the um target device what is the purpose of the of the um of the claim what are the different encodings and serialization that is needed so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "i don't think we have time to dive into this but i want to keep this in the back uh pocket to understand that there really should be some commonality of the claim designs as we try to figure out what needs to be encoded for passing across the network particularly when we're talking about writing some policy language on the relying party for interpreting what's going to be coming from the attestation results and please chime in on the mailing list if you have any specific comments about these but there is a lot of meat in this slide we don't have the time to digest but i think it's a important for your your consideration and i think that's all the slides i have at this point now if there's any questions on r4c no but um eric i want to go back since roman put in the um chat for the chara draft yes uh he noted that it would be good if you can get the discusses addressed before the turnover completes so roman i don't know when that turnover completes anyway because you have enough votes now to make it move forward you just need to address them and and read the draft all right as far as i know the discussion has been closed covered i just need the responses from people on yeah correct so this is roman jumping in since i i got invoked yeah eric is exactly right i'm in contact with kind of rob to please ask him to to re rob rob wilton to revisit his discuss because i believe the edits that the team put out thank you eric uh uh do address the do address the feedback and the ballot turnover will happen on wednesday at the at the plenary so we're all pushing to get things cleared as fast as possible excellent right so if anybody sees rob in the hallway grab them and take them to a computer and i know and i saw him on sunday"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "but i'll keep that in mind thanks eric all right thanks everybody okay up next is architecture hi i'm hank i have been have been told by the list to present my name i'm hank and this is about the architecture so um michael richardson most uh mostly did all of this content so this is a report because we are in uh in a good state the tiny little letters on the left side are hiding who's um contributing in the last half year and longer uh helping us getting this document uh done uh there are some little star asterisks at some of the names these are the editors of the documents so we have now uh no remaining issues uh 185 in total the tuesday's meetings are and hiatus at the moment and we have addressed literally all of the pull requests except the ones after uh my uh editorial cutoff so we will not touch any uh content of the document until there will be a next action um that might be i don't know actually so uh next slide which is what is happening next that's the conclusion so we have a diff you can look at it we added a few things at the end we um upgraded the references and our state is a very limbo state of uh being submitted to isg which can mean everything i assume it's not dead and so i don't know what's happening next now so we will not edit anything at that document at the moment until we know what the further steps are so that is my question to the room what are we doing now so roman you can help me out now that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "it's an iesg publication it does go up to the isg i expect to have reviews from the ads you'll get feedback that would be great there has no been has no issue no no no doctors no directorate no area has done reuse yet so that might be the next thing i guess well so roman help help me out here do you want me to trigger a directorate review i mean i apologize i was uh i was in the chat window are we talking about the rats architecture document correct yes so right so none of the pre working group last call reviews were triggered it's in pub wreck for me behind a much larger document i have it half open so i would say just for expediency give me the rest of the week and i'm sorry the rest of the week after ietf week and i should have it because i think that my early review dropped all the comments i would have and they they largely appear resolved i just need to double check and then we can go to ietf less call and trigger their direct reviews so the action is with me so we are not in the final last call yet we have had the last last call and now we initiate the next working group last call is that correct no no it's the publication has been requested right okay thank you it was not matching what i was thinking it was on the slides so he said ietf last call oh okay i was sorry thank you okay then that's it that's basically what we're at um so uh as roman said the actions are now clear and we can move on to the next item i'm shocked ah interesting that's the next item okay um so we have uh we have a daa document in an adopted state"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "that has happened due to the split from the uh interaction a reference interaction model document um daa by itself seems to be its own thing that has is worth worth discussing having its own issue tracking and i think that's fine so now we uh recently uh convinced the failure to be a co-editor of this and now we have a few next steps to be done so um i don't know how familiar with da i think the timing is not for me enough for me to uh to highlight all of this but there's a daa issuer it's about anonymity so then you can't really distinguish one a tester from another so that's done by having a third party it's a daa issuer and that might be very similar to a rat's endorser and and that has to be fleshed out so there has been some comments on the list and some comments on the uh on the document itself that we have a strong relationship here we haven't addressed those yet so that is the next step one next step then we have a trusted computing group concept called the privacy ca uh privacy would also be literally in support of being a dia issuer so we haven't been talking about that in the text right now but it's i guess the same function so that has to be uh again elaborated on and then we have the dice concept the composer identifiers from tcg that's using not hardware root of trust about the existence of a certificate and if the certificate um creation chain uh has been is there so if you with an existence of a rule of trust certificate exists so then then you can can imply that all the other certificates were fine so there's a the trust consumption of the dust chain in the dice concept and that again would have to be addressed and correlated to the daa issuer flow that's been done so i think that's been done outside of tc of our atf in the tcg but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "again the document doesn't talk about that so these are the three items i think we want to uh um do on a working group level next i i'm pretty sure that not everybody is super interested in all of these but this is a group attestation thing and there are a lot of identical things and i don't know cloud centers or iot swarms that would uh really benefit from this because you don't really know that that exact thing was wrong but maybe the concept of your whole swamp might be wrong and so so that's the attestation uh our scope that we are targeting here for and so that is our next steps but i have to admit that we haven't prioritized that work at the moment so that's just a status report any questions on that can you get up and recognize yourself sure yeah hi this is lawrence um i just wanted to understand um is it focused i mean dea could apply to eat as well as chara i don't know what you're thinking is about that i mean it's uh so i just wanted to yeah i i bring that issue up could apply but i have no clue how it would okay so if you have an idea how to map that we are welcoming any input on that i think that's great yeah but that hasn't been done yet so that we literally knew work right and it might even be another document i'm not sure yeah but but yeah but i think yes uh testing a group of uh sorry i'm i'm creating a trustworthiness assertions about a group of similar things that you don't want to be distinguished i think it's a real world application that a lot of people want and if it can help us there sure yeah or maybe it's just maybe it's kosei work also yeah okay all each work summer was cozy work i think um so you might you might have split off some some uh input there so thomas arjunu is putting in the uh comments"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "that daa has been designed for the tpm and the current draft would need more work um if we wanted to look into privacy ca for dice yeah that is exactly true that is my point because it hasn't been done yet that's item too that's precisely this is the envelope that's precisely to understand this because this is new to me and i wanted to so the goal is about as you said to not necessarily distinguish among many similar things that you don't care or is about because looking at the private cca the first impression you get is that what you want is to protect privacy of the of the attester for whatever the reason yeah whatever the reason exactly yeah but but we're talking about many similar things privacy doesn't make any sense there just to understand what we're talking about so if i'm talking about i want to say some cell phone and you know all of these are kind of identical and we're not talking about the sim card thing the individual part but the rest of the composite device and now you can do a group attestation for all the cell phones at the same brand for scope let's say it's an enterprise yeah but but this is a let's say this is a case that is related with privacy because a cell phone is associated with a human that is moving around and that's why you have the daa issuer they give you a certificate that's not individual okay so it's a group group okay so that's it but it's applicable there and on the other hand is applicable to i don't know one million uh i don't know uh temperature or humidity sensors that we can spread exactly with the devices nothing to do with privacy in the on the other hand exactly the devices do not lose their individuality they get issued something they can say but i'm of this group that's basically the role of the issuer and that's why it might also be an endorser because endorser is very similar to that so there's a bit of some discussion how to generalize it for example for it yeah diego would you mind re restating because uh gidi missed your comment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "for the minutes and if you can just go to the notes and update it that would be great okay uh lawrence again one one you have to make it quick because we need to move on that's fine uh i just wanted to respond to thomas d.a.a my understanding is a general cryptographic concept it's not bound to tpms for example fido supports the da protocol in some ways and there are a lot of flavors of daa and so there's a it's a big rich space and it's not associated with tpm's solely so i'm not thomas so i'm not putting worth in his mouth but i would say yes but the only specification existing are we tbms thank you that is not wrong but fido has no dice extension because we are working on that right now on my institute and i'm pretty sure about that yes okay can we can we take that to the mail list please and but i think what i'm hearing is there's a distinction to the two use cases tpm versus otherwise so it'd be would be good to clarify have the authors clarify it as well as you lawrence as to what your intent is but i'm pretty sure there's no dice extension in fighter please do that on the mail list okay sure we do that so next slide please uh it's an action model it's cool um so yeah that's where we split the dar stuff off and we've already heard eric talk about the um background check model about subscriptions and challenge response so the yang module is about challenge response the subscription model is about apparently something else again and then we have the time-based new directional models these are general interaction models how you convey evidence and to some extent always could apply to attestation results because they inherit the freshness characteristics so now um the uh um challenge the chara the challenge request response attestation and the subscription and the time-based"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "are there but in the architecture of rats we have defined the um background check interaction model which is a composition of interactions and the passport model which is again a composition of interactions so these haven't been covered by the uh interaction models id yet but there is a um a project linux foundation project out there that's called a c2pa it's a coalition of content provenance and authenticity and um and they want to implement all this so they switched already to sieber and cddi and they really they really wanted to have uh we need a document to refer to these specific implementations specific interaction combinations here for the models so that's why we pull that in to the mercury at the moment and eric for example also highlighted the uh ar augmented model which is again a combination of the backpack round check model and the passport model so so that's also something we could consider to put in here we don't know where the demarcation line is but i think we won't go anything beyond that so but that is what's happening right now so c2ba was the reason to do the uh background check and password combinations and today now please review that but i think you're a very good state so we can also unders try to find out are we good with that can we can we can we close the feature like are we leaving alpha and i'll go to better so i think i think that's the point if you feel that the um the draft is mature enough we can do an early last call and same thing i can trigger earlier or some some um directorate or uh some other people aren't letting me finish that's what i was going to say i can tweet an early review i will let you finish that rhetorical we can move on what's the next thing oh yeah uccs so uccs by name hasn't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "changed but as lawrence is probably well aware um be included now in the appendix of the uss id um a option to accommodate both json cbor as a feature with cddi so there are two features in c sorry it's two capabilities of the cddi expressiveness one of them is called feature and another one is called a generic so by selecting a feature which is apparently sieber or json you can now switch to alternate generics that would allow you to uh use the json prelude or the sibo prelude and therefore it would not create any conflicts with any c detail definition whatsoever when you do a json and sibo compliant cdl is back so lawrence took note of that and and he already wanted to encompass it actually does incorporate it in the each spec because it uh also has a target of uh addressing jason and sibo so we haven't changed the name yet it's in the appendix it's an informal uh an informative thing so now i think the next question for the working group is to understand do we want this id to be about uccs and or also ujcs i think it would be called then right so so we didn't dare to do that just without consensus but this is basically the the the call out to uh um that we can start that discussion on the list um and and if we want if everybody is want to have that i think it's it's not specifically related to rats um but i think it's very important to highlight that um every any um specification about something unprotected has to come with a very prescriptive threat model that tells you why it's okay to have these claims sets be it in or sabor i'm protected so what we're doing here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "is we're introducing the concept and we always bundle it with at least the very first application scenario and that's rats so i think it's still very fine to have this in reds because we can't release the concept into the wild by saying and then you have to do a threat model and this is just how you do it because then people will just do it that way and don't have to write down their security implication about why you're doing this and how this is done i think that's a very important part of uccs and now if it would become something that you yet you jcs also yeah but it even gets more important so so that's why this is in rats it's actually about cwts but you can't just do this with any cwt they have to serve a purpose like eat and then you have the threat model and the security consideration about that that's what's happening in this id so that's why it's not in a cwt space that's why it is in the red space but in general to be honest the core of it can apply to any kind of cwt i hope that makes sense to you if not maybe look at the draft a bigger discussion on the list okay gary just mentioned as an editor he's recommending decisions on uccs be deferred after his presentation thinking they'll be deciding anything in the next few days that's what i was going to say i didn't think we were deciding anything i'm just i'm just highlighting that this is why this isn't right i think that's the last slide i think i have to present on yes yes so lauren's next and i bye-bye hello this is lawrence um so that's uh the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "slide i've always presented kind of the the list of planned eat claims because otherwise every time you turn your head around you miss the audio all right is that better yeah okay there we go i'm not i'm not into that kind of never done karaoke [Music] you try it out now um what no next slide okay please so here's a uh kind of a status of the the blue arrows of things that have changed in the dash 12 uh draft um so that's where work was done um and as you can see most of everything is green which means it's ready for last call so the two areas that are still need some work just in terms of the individual claims are you know measurements and results basically stuff related to attestation results ar next slide uh here's just a list of uh interesting changes from the the dash 12 draft um with the definitely improvement in the language mostly thanks to comments from hanus we added the hardware model claim so now that there's this oem id hardware model and hardware version as uh identifiers for devices that kind of a standard triple then there was the boot odometer claim was added um uh some privacy considerations um the hardware version claim was improved um and then the uh ayanna section was was filled in to some degree the main purpose of the the dash 12 draft was actually to get um things published for early allocation which uh that's uh i'm not going to talk about that today i think that's just administrative at this point next slide uh so here's a uh thing i wanted to bring highlight um planning for the dash 13 draft is to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "group the claims uh in uh you know they're all in just one big list now put them into four uh so one is claims about the entity so these are the things we've been thinking about a lot in the past already then there's claims about the token itself so these are things like the profile of the token what the intended use of it is uh you know what is expected to be in the token or not uh the and the timestamp so you're kind of separating what are claims kind of metadata about the token versus claims that are about the the entity and um that was kind of came to light partly in the ar discussion and then nonce is kind of a special case because it kind of goes through and then there's also some uh discussion about how to include key public keys um and that's not exactly a claim so there's a pr to um uh you know rearrange the sections that also has some good discussion about ar in it um that that pr next uh in the this is this is the um work queue one of the the items is just to complete the cdl um and get it all to work that jc generic is the one that hank was referring to um and that's the uh ability to write cdl that can be verified against uh json or verified against sebor [Music] that's an interesting thing i mean the i think the cddl tool is a little bit shaky on on the the jason parley so i've had some trouble with that um and uh so there's there's some work that'll that'll be in the dash 13 draft the um you know finishing that off um that uh jc generic actually is making the cdl a lot simpler so it's actually uh helpful i mean i think it's we're on the edge here in terms of the use of cvdl"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "but i think it's a good direction and then that uh rearranging the sections to to group the claims better i think that's a good one uh that that's uh that's basically straightforward work um next next slide so here's uh topics that i think we need consensus on still so there's some uh issue about the relationship between eat and uccs and geary's going to talk about that i think the real core here is is there a normative reference or not and what's the uh the sort of dependency and the ordering and like you know in terms of last call process and stuff like that we don't want it to get hung up by a hard dependency on on uccs um there's the security level claim uh there's been a lot of discussion on that i'm not saying that's a showstopper but we got to figure out what we're going to do and then um there's the the attestation results discussion so you know what's its role in attestation results is attestation results a separate profile is there a general result code what's its result relation to ar 4si and i think there's a discussion later today for that next slide okay that's it for for me questions do we have we have time for questions no you're a minute and a half over um we can save that for later if there's questions is it is it guy or who's who's presenting on riv guy or eric uh uh hi nancy it's guy guy hey guy you're up next how are you doing oh thanks for being in the queue hang on hang on roman were you in the queue i didn't see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "you there you go go ahead roman what did you announce the the really great news if folks weren't watching the mailing list that the early allocation for eats are now approved through the through kind of the the normal kind of processes so at this point what we are waiting for is ayanna to just perform their batch administrative action to get those claims posted thanks to michael for helping mike jones indeed thank you mike okay nancy mike jones of course um i think the discussion educated a lot of people including myself so i'm glad we had it no and i appreciate you helping expedite it all right with that sorry guy okay you can go yep it's uh it's guy for darko speaking uh on behalf of the um remote integrity verification draft uh um next please i think we're doing pretty well uh just as a reminder the objective here is to standardize the way that you could you that you can use uh tpm based devices to do remote attestation that is to assess the the the uh uh integrity of the software and of the device that you're you're trying to validate the point is to make this technology which has been around for a while with tcg equipment to make it into something that can be used by network operators with without requiring a proprietary work along the way to standardize the interfaces next please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "um as a reminder this is the following the so-called background check model that is you you go to the device and ask it how it's doing uh and then the verifier looks at the results to produce uh uh a passport if you will to say that uh sorry to produce a result which says whether the device is uh working uh as intended this does not include explicitly riv does not explicitly include the interaction with the relying party that that we declared out of scope at the start but is subject to the same discussions that we've been having about how you how you communicate between verifiers and and relying parties um next please um i think the status is that the discuss comments i think have been resolved um there are a couple of other uh none as i understand non-blocking comments which require resolution but i don't think those are hard and i think i can probably get them done even perhaps today or tomorrow and from there i think we're on to the rfc editor as i understand it next yeah so again the next step is simply to resolve the the couple of the couple of comments that are still open and i think that's all i need to say the next slide is eric's um eric's uh document chart so we've seen that in the previous presentations are there any questions on this no i appreciate your responsiveness in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "trying to get this draft done it may be the the first draft out of the rats working group well yeah you see it we're we've been keeping it more or less synchronized with chara as well so i i think phil well they're both going together their package still okay thank you all right with that um next step is for us to have the discussion on the charter there's been quite a lot of exchange on the mail list as the chairs we believe that um i don't know it may be worthwhile for you to share the charter text if you can so we started the this well we started the discussion a while back but back in ietf 112 there was agreement that um there was some new work that needed to be done that wasn't in the charter we needed to expand the charter there was some proposed text we did a call for interest to see if there was interest by the participants in this working group if they wanted to extend the charter and if they liked the proposed text and so there was a lot of discussion that went on in the mail list um and so we wanted to do the pulse again here i'm trying to talk as much well while ned brings up the text um to see if there were any other remaining issues vis-a-vis the revised text for us to recharter the group so um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "let's see hmm this is a hybrid so how do i do this pull show of hands do both if everybody's logged in is is everybody logged in here who's on site yes yes okay no no no no no not everybody not everybody let me do it the other way is anybody not okay so i'll take your poll literally um so i want to have a show of hands of who has read the um proposed charter text of course i'm the one typing this um and ned ned is showing the charter text um oh so this is wrong that's the old chart text that's what we already have that's the existing scope yeah the one on github that's the proposed new charter text that would have been interesting if people have checked now yeah wow is a test who is awake okay i did start the poll um so raise your hands if you have read the proposed charter text that's on github and ned will bring it up and we can we can have ned read the proposed charter text as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "so we do have quite a few and there was only one in the room who was not on the meat echo so hannes not to put you everybody in the room will meet echo and raising your hand okay good otherwise i'm gonna call you out you can't find it i'm digging for it it's uh github you want me to show this drug and clarifying so if you are using the a small light version you can vote from there or you're going to watch the full mutual conversion either one works so harness even when you have tried to get into the with the qr code you're going to vote still thank you ditto here's the link if you want to see it i think this is all right yes okay most of you have not read the charter text so ned will be bringing it up you can't do it of course i'm running the poll so i don't know right here yeah i will conclude the poll yeah so we had 24 participants they they had not read the text only eight had read the proposed text"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "okay are you sharing it um i'm sharing it okay you want to read through it little bit of a character size increase one size thank you okay so the main change to the charter was to expand the program of work to include endorsements and reference value endorsers and reference value providers so that that text was added to uh item six in the program of work which is standardized interoperable data formats to securely declare and convey endorsements and reference values there was some other minor cleanup of the terms in the in the program of work but no substitute change to the original intent of the other program of work items we updated the goal saying you know since we now have an architecture draft we updated some of that text but the substantive change is to add the program of work again just to reiterate um adding to our charter on standardizing the data formats for securely declaring the endorsements and reference values comments we are now open for comments and feedback so just uh yeah that's actually a comment so there's some a symmetry on the protocol work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "for the rats charter at the moment i'm not a super fan of that but i understand why it exists so uh um the chart allows for new protocols to be specified in the working group when it comes about through the conveyance of evidence from the test of the verifier and it is talking only about reusing existing things when it comes to conveying attestation results from the verifier to the lying party um i'm okay with that um there is enough um text in the charter that says sure that will work and i don't think we need to new protocols there um i just want to say that protocols that can convey evidence from an attester to a verifier could in theory also be used for that so they are not they are not literally invented for that as said by the charter but they invented for the other thing so this is like a weird loophole how you could invent new protocols for the other thing you know you recall five was there to begin with yeah i understand that and the discussion was that we needed the data schemas okay and i also understand that yes i just want to say that that for example 2da is a protocol for a test of the verifier and if that is getting standardized it's a protocol and then you can apply to the other thing so the asymmetry in the text does not really matter because if you did the one thing you can do it for the other thing it becomes symmetric so the asymmetric text in the charter does not serve a purpose i think but again i don't mind that because as you just said it doesn't matter so that's my only concern on the asymmetry and protocol design okay on the queue we've got kathleen"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "and then dave hi so um for the first item and sorry i didn't get this to the list what's the gating function for a document on extensions and the reason i'm asking is because you'll have cases where you have to register uh things into registries and some might require um might require a document you know into cozy and um [Music] uh jots sorry i'm still really tired you're nervous function right so that might be the case where we publish if a claim has to be registered and requires a document specification required yeah i think that's what six is going towards kathleen that that we would have a document for that format is that what you're you're trying to ask and and are you asking as a chair to the group uh yeah so i guess it doesn't read clearly to me that i didn't see the connection so you mean strictly use cases but use cases without a definition or an extension okay yes that that was the intent yes all right it wasn't entirely clear okay dave saylor you're in the queue uh checking audio can you guys hear me yes we can hear you all right uh so i got in the key i was going to say something very similar to what uh hank said uh and i think what uh ira just put into the chat i think it would be useful to clarify 0.5"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "yes it was in there before but we kind of have an agreement that says we much prefer existing protocols where they exist um and so i guess my original uh thought that i put in a chat was maybe it should be standardized use of interoperable protocols but uh maybe even better would be to say specifically that uh the group um will try to reuse existing protocols whenever possible right now it's more open-ended that that you know people can propose you know alternate protocols even if there's already a standard one that exists um and just being more explicit in the charter i think would be useful to say really the burden is on uh somebody proposing a protocol to say why would you not be able to use an existing one right and so i'm just suggesting some wording that does not preclude necessarily new protocols but at least raises the burden of of um of proof for those proposing it to say okay you can do one but you've got to be able to say why existing ones aren't aren't you can't be used in that situation so thanks thanks dave hank so yeah hi this is hank dave do you think that would put me in any position to again argue why tuda has a valid point if so i would not like to do that but if you think it's obvious that tudor is a standalone thing because it does things differently i'm i'm not i don't have a problem with it and just just as an individual because i don't like more work um i can't remember to what extent that would classify tuda as a protocol per se but i'm taking you you do um i'd have to go back and read it again i guess my point is that um there's a couple of different legs in the architecture document like a protocol between a a tester and a relying party and then there are protocols between say a verifier and one of the other two and uh protocols between the attester and their lying party might be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "pre-existing that you're adding attestation to and so the goal is to whenever possible put attestation into existing protocols and do authentication right now but your legs that go off to you know an endorser or a uh a reference value provider or a verifier you know maybe you need new ones that might be using you know http or something else as a transport and those might be okay but trying to reuse say a test you're lying party protocols um for the horizontal leg and the diagrams i think it should be a strong bias there and so but you could be layering things on top and so i don't have a specific answer to your question okay so so just as an additional comment to what you just said is i i don't know what a test i would rely to a convey to a relying party at all so well for example in the in the uh uh passport model it's conveying attestation results right in the background check it's containing evidence and in the background check of course neither of the it's just using it as a transport right it's it's putting evidence over the top of whatever that protocol is not that the relying party knows that it's evidence right it's just an opaque blob but it has to pass off to verify i'm on your background yet yeah i think both of you are are oscillating but agreeing on the the need for us to use the existing protocols just with clearance in particular to put into point five yes with the exception of the tudor thing that we are what i'm targeting for so if this is in scope fine if somebody exer assesses this what excluded i'm not fine that's very obvious so that's all i have okay um all right so pengling you're in the queue hello yes we can hear you yes my question about the number five is that what layer the protocol will be used in transport layer i think the tls will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "be a very good example to use the protocol i don't know that we've made that explicit uh i mean that if it's a transport layer i think tls will be a good example to use in this scenario yeah so we made that explicit as we said profiling existing protocols example dtls coab or mud which is a lot of layers okay so i think we've set some examples in the charter text yeah i oh okay i didn't think we called them out explicit but yes we oh we did i stand corrected we did hi this is hannes um what i hear is and i haven't followed that discussion is previously is you guys want to restrict what is being standardized on the other hand everyone who has a specific favorite protocol wants to make sure that the dex covers what they are have in mind uh which is kind of odd you essentially want to like it feels like well you should label this and and just continue start the work because otherwise everyone will anyway um as always people will do what they want to do and they will then just change the way that or reinterpret the chart and the way that it fits their needs well and and that gets to the question of existing protocols right if if we could not to be pessimistic but if we continue to delay there be maybe a new protocol and then we'll say hey we should be using that one all i'm saying is it's subject to interpretation right but but again what i'm trying to come back to was if you recall when we went to charter rats in the beginning we struggled to get the program of work lined up and agree on the text which landed us on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "those first five the discussions in the last few months have been the notion of how do we do the conveyance of um other information and admittedly to to get us to move along faster we we added that number six um narrowing the scope to number five or i would say tightening the language i think is fine we have put so i've asked ned to to update what's in the github right now and so we parenthetically just added you know the note um and the intent is to use existing protocols where possible so what's interesting was we took a poll on the mail list and there were no dissenting there was discussion by lawrence i believe right and i believe we we tried to do some of the methane on the github um i'm thinking we probably need to do another poll and confirmation on the mail list given that we've updated um we just updated the text on the proposed charter all right did did i just run this out of time oh we have one minute left lawrence it looked like you had a comment no uh i'll only one comment um yeah this is lawrence um uh most of my comments were around whether or not eat was going to be discouraged as an attestation results protocol because there was seemed a lot of consensus around that and i was hoping for a little bit of an adjustment in the wording to be clear that we're not excluding"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "uh eat as attestation results and that we're we have an expansive or basically we have an expansive view of attestation results not a narrow one so so that was that was my main concern if i look around at the architecture the charter other things i mean it's it's not as strong as i'd like but it's reasonable we do best effort so that we can get the actual work moving forward i don't think we would be precluding anything lawrence there yeah i think that's what this is saying um i think there's also another distortion item under exactly that the next session if i'm not mistaken about the attestation result scope and such so that would tie into that correct yes yeah so so i will postpone that that that content discussion and then we can bring it up in the next session yeah okay okay so um can i just get a show of hand i mean we're we're gonna shoot i have to do another poll um well we're out of time so why don't i just go back to the uh yeah um well i mean we're gonna have to confirm things on the mail list anyway so um please i'm strongly requesting that you guys read through the proposed text i will do another call for support for the rechartering of this text um and we'll go from there on the mail list okay reasonable okay um next up i believe we're going through milestones can you put those up so i'll fall on this one we've been remiss we have actually been updating the milestones we are behind"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "we need to make sure that we can tighten the scope of some of the work that we're doing just so that we can move them forward towards publication if there's more work to be done i don't think we are excluding new drafts to come in um but we wanted to review this and so part of the discussion there's some updates that are interesting oh yeah roman just updated it uh can you share it so we wanted to go through the milestones also to get an idea for for new added ones but given that we're not adopting you charter texts um we'll uh we'll hold off on the new ones roman you're in the queue thanks ditto hi uh yes i want to just uh kind of continue on with the discussion that you're narrating about what's in the milestones uh i will say i have i saw there were some pending milestones i approved some of them i did not release kind of some of them so that's why you may notice that things are in a halfway state based on the edits we're making and i think it's uh it's all informed by this charter conversation my meta feedback uh would be as we're thinking about milestones is first of course we'll need milestones for the recharger activity but i would really caution the working group to make sure that we're pipelining the work correctly that we actually in fact have enough energy to kick off and start everything uh you know i i don't want to say at the same time but you know we can finish kind of all the work and we're not in a situation where we uh fan out we start a lot of things and we lumber we lumber slowly toward completion so if the working group would want to think about waves or sprints of related work we want to work on this first then another kind of toronto work that may make things a little bit more productive but i leave it to the initial proposals to figure that out"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "i like that idea thanks roman okay so um i don't know that there's going to be much to discuss on the milestones but we just wanted to show you that we we are i can't read um you want to go through them i can go through them yeah yeah so in most cases we had work progress without updating the milestones so the recent flurry of activity is essentially to go back and provide um milestones that reflect the the actual status of the various um drafts uh and so uh several of those that are currently in every direct review are fit into that bucket uh and then there were a couple of uh milestones that were submitted that were in anticipation of the change to the working group charter um so those are i think those are in your q q roman they're pending yeah any comments or feedback nope i don't see anybody on the queue so i guess we can continue to move forward um what's next taxonomy eat attestation and results taxonomy so how long do i do i have for this i was little uh you asked for 30 minutes yeah okay so i mean"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "if the chairs were nice we can give you more than 30 minutes oh the chairs were already already nice for giving me 30 minutes so thank you thank you for that i'm often accused of not being that nice so actually you won't give it to him now this is to say you know we've allocated 30 minutes but we're actually we gave some time back because um the charter and milestones went quicker than we thought okay i don't have 30 minutes of slides or 30 minutes of talking to do myself that's for sure um mostly uh i wanted to have some good discussion about attestation results and kind of some of the framing around attestation results what we're trying to achieve here so i just have a few slides to kind of introduce some things and then i just like facilitate some discussion to try to back and forth it seemed like it was a little uh you know difficult some ways on the mailing list i would try some of this so uh next slide so um one of the things i really a point that seems really important to me is that attestation results are for a full range of security strengths so that ranges from a piece of hardware that is designed it's not a tpm it's designed just to provide authenticated a tested device identity maybe all the way to the rp so no measurements no software so the no tpm so i think that's that's a use case and i think we want to be accommodating that use case in both evidence and results another use case is um uh simple uncertified software so attestation like is built into an android app like a fido implementation inside an android app so it's all software there's no tpm there's no not much really going on to measure it can't really measure itself so but it is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "a form of attestation right we see we see implementations like that you know fido so and then there's everything between which is kind of where we're spending a lot of our time you know on things like uh tpm and tees you know without a station there and that's that is i think that's the right place to be spending a lot of time but um we can't focus just on that next slide so system architectures um so i think we need to think about attestation results for a full set of system architectures so again purpose-built hardware that just does attestation there's no uh software in it at all it's not and it's not a tpm again app-based so the attestation is implemented in java or swift or python or something like that so no measurements just some simple attestation and then everything in between so uh and actually uh i think back in august there was a discussion on the list about adding 0.5 to the principles for ar 4si and they basically said all that but and i think there was agreement on the list to add this as a principle these two things as a principle for ar-4si but i don't think it actually got incorporated um okay so that's uh so so i do think when you are incorporating all of this it does change how you think about ar um next yeah go ahead um so there's a thing adjustation results are intrinsically tied to evidence that's correct well that's a very general statement and i don't really quite know where you're going with that but yeah it's a trap okay so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "let's know so if evidence becomes stay at the station results become stale there come somehow a ghostly entangles right um um you don't know apparently because the the the technology around that you know that the nationalization result is stale depends on the somehow knowing that the evidence becomes stable now evidence not known to you and mostly so that that's in general the the challenge of rats so now you're saying um that everything that produces evidence uh can relate to attestation results and now what i would like to highlight is that the testing environments in the testers create evidence that's a first and then the testing environments can't just be signing fools i think that's obvious right yeah yeah so so but if you say everything can be in a testing environment by saying everything is in a tester it can be a signing fool i think that's a contradiction so how do you make sure that whatever creates the evidence in the tester and i think it's always of course the testing environment is not a signing fool i mean my answer is so when well hold on we've got eric on the queue as well can i answer that yeah no i just saw hannah's coming up i wanted okay so i'm when i say uh go back to uh if you go back a slide please when i say system architectures and security levels i didn't say that these were signing fools or attesting fools i just said you can implement them in all these different ways it's this is just implementation um and you know sorting out who's the fool and who's not the full that's really the job of the verifier right and so some and i mean you could be a verifying fool too but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "but assuming we don't have verifying pools it's the job of the verifier to say what it is and and they may say like okay this this attestation came from a python you know on a something or other and i it's not very good and then you can use it if you want but it's not very good and so that's that's what i'd say all right okay thank you hank says thumbs up okay adding one yeah adding one thing to the discussion uh that relates to the previous discussion it's important to remember that you can sign stuff and be sending it to or lying party the physical device and that's okay uh dave taylor really did a good job of educating the our forza people that the relying party also has a verifier in most cases because it has to interpret the evidence as well on the passport model is something that was evaluated before so just because something sent to our lying party does not make it at the station results it has to be evidence that's evaluated uh to become attestation results and so we really have to remember that split role where the verifier if it does do some kind of ai type lookup or other types of functions on the evidence that just because it's received by the relying party device does not make it out to station results yeah maybe let's go for some more discussion i'm not sure i agree with that one but honest it's not even really something to discuss because it's base architecture that the relying party and uh the verifier are often co-resident in the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "passport model so i don't even think it's something that can be discussed unless you want to argue the architecture hi this honest um i think both eric and hank um responded to the slide in a way that was completely unrelated to what's on the slide uh uh so which is uh which with great points uh but but if uh in my discussions which are unrelated to rats with uh the various people there's always an attempt to make a judgment about the security of a system that they are describing and interestingly it shows up actually very nicely in these and these different categories um and there is often uh um for many people like there's an assumption on what they consider the threshold to be what the minimum buy is and of course there are some preferences and biases that go along with it and i think i hear you um learn saying that you have these different models um but you're not trying to make a judgment of whether that's good or not um right and and i think that's probably the right way uh sort of like leave that policy decision out there and let someone decide but be aware that there is obviously a spectrum and those deploying the solution need to make a decision about what they consider useful and what which one not and it it i think it also then boils down to in in context of rad not just about like judging the overall results but actually individual values within inside uh of a claim as well so for example um you take a a security level claim uh sort of a lifestyle life cycle state claim so typically if you have some hardware id in there there's a life cycle state associated with it but if it's in certain states"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "any information for example if it's in a debug state you can you can have a perfectly secure solution but you can then switch it into a debug state different forms of debug state if it's in a certain level you cannot really judge make any useful judgment about the data you get when it's in that debug state because you could modify any of the values then and obviously someone needs to be mindful about those aspects and in practice that will be a challenge i could imagine in in deployments so i don't know if you uh lawrence if you plan to document these different levels uh and of course for example i wouldn't go there to be honest because it's very difficult uh many people tried um and it's part of us of certification schemes because they additionally they try to define different security levels and then match that up with ways to verify that to demonstrate that i'm actually meeting that security level um so um what i'm trying to get with this is it's it's difficult even for us technical people to really um talk about this without a lot of emotions because we have our own preference of where we put the bar on like i personally i'm not too happy about level this that level two part and i have a different perspective on level one of course but i'm sure everyone in the room is different so i don't know how you best want to convey that so that people in in future discussions who are not part of the group or iedf in general will then not stumble over the same issue yeah i'd like to respond to a couple of things there um okay uh and then the next thing the q so i spent a lot of years started out as a software guy and then i got a job doing some hardware and it really opened my eyes about like what's what's going on in terms of hardware i mean to me hardware was just a cpu you just ran stuff on then i started understanding what's really going in the hardware and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "how variable it is and how you attack hardware and all sorts of stuff like that then i spent a couple years designing certification levels for fido and that really deepened my knowledge you know understanding common criteria and how people you know actually uh evaluate hardware security so i mean so you know 15 years ago i would have been like i don't really understand this hardware stuff and it's just like it's we just need to do a good job now i see security as very as a huge sliding scale from a whole bunch of over a whole range and my main point here the thing i'm really after is that we can't narrow in on one security level in rats we should not do that all the protocols i mean if you want to design a specific protocol for a thing then it then that's fine design it and call it out as this is just for this security level or just it's not a universal solution but rats should be designing for universal security any core protocol so eat is definitely that way he definitely thinks about the whole range of security from the weakest to the strongest whether you and you don't have to use it for all of those things it's just that's what we're trying to accommodate can i can i just put a pause on that just you know having been a systems architect for a long time trying to suit everybody you'll never be you're never going to be able to please everybody yes and every design so i think as a goal that's laudable right but i think some of the work that you've seen have been very specific to some hardware platforms or architectures and we made sure that you know i'm speaking to the child one which is more tpm specific as an example that's fine i mean i i don't i i know it's hard i don't think we should just give up because we can't you know on the get-go i mean i think eat is doing okay at this full range so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:03",
    "text": "i think there's some possibility there and i just went up and we're recognizing char as tpm specific the question the real question for me is is where does ar-4si fit in this is it universal yeah for all the levels or is it narrow to a specific one i want another comment on hannah's statement that um you should somebody that decide if this is good or not it's that's a literal quote you just said right from coming from the target of every asian that is the attester so so you should let someone that decided that's good or bad that's what you said right that's a verifier that's a policy on there right so it's defined who and what and when will decide this in the architecture i think that's very important to sound because when you said it was like some miracle occurs but no the architecture really decides this and the very fair decisions and that's why this is defined through attaching results and i think this is to be discussed right here right now so yeah uh this is honest again so the architecture is a very abstract thing of course in the end it's uh people need to decide that's what i'm trying to get to like people need to make some decisions on what they find acceptable and what's not okay but those are the people later who deploy the technology is different from us here standards people deciding that only only on the the lowest one um the level three or whatever you call it is the one we want to focus on or we want to focus only on a dbm um slash uh i think we could do that too and some organization did that um but i'm i'm i'm there more with lauren saying that um support a wider spectrum because needless to say like you guys talk a lot about dbms because that's what you use i would want to have my uh our stuff included as well um and probably dara wants yet something else um and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "and so being content yeah um there is just here for the warm room uh but you get the point i i understand your point and i'm i'm going back through the charter i don't think the charter has precluded that right yes it's not clear to me that the architecture has precluded that either harness so i'm just trying to understand and frame the discussion right because and i'm not saying it's a bad discussion i'm trying to understand the goal because now you point into a specific draft and so if you're pointing to a specific draft perhaps and sorry i'm just very target fixated of you know is it that you're asking that draft to be more precise in its scope of where it lies or are you just objecting in its approach i'm well i've written extensively on the mailing list about ar 4si and i don't think we're done yet i just wanted to and i don't think we will finish today i i just wanted to have this open discussion about the framing here exactly and that's fair so and i have to say again um what i just said is independent of the assumptions on that slide all these are acceptable what i'm saying is that the decision made by someone is located at a very very defined not abstract not vague but very well-defined role in the architecture and that is the verifier if your policy says all of this is okay it says and if you don't agree with that that i think is the problem so that is the problem we have to discuss here because the verifier will tell you pure hw everything that's a policy decision and the only the policy basic decision maker here in this architecture is a verifier developing party then can make sense of the assessment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "the result that is created by the verifier that's fine and then i just want to point out policy of you can define the expectations but defining policy is out of scope yes and that it and that is the better the miracle occurs that that hana said because some people define something we don't express how but it's enforced by a single role in the architecture that is very very defined and not ambiguous and not abstract and that is a verifier and if you are contesting that that i think has to be very spelled out because the architecture is done at the moment if you didn't agree with this in the last five years that is a little bit curious so let me explain my comment on that sure i just want to recognize brendan is also in the queue so go ahead and then we'll let go so here's my example um uh i'm clearing a uh i'm a bank clearing a uh 100 000 transaction i want it to be done with something that's common criteria certified i'm a bank uh clearing a 50 cent transaction i really don't care if it's an android app so as the relying party the bank in this case is deciding something about security level and they're deciding it in the context of the transaction so the verifier i don't see the verifier as uh doing things like deciding whether a transaction is good because we don't want the verifier involved in the transaction amounts or who the people are or what country they're in or anything like that the verifier is about verifying the the hardware and the software and the device it's not about application specific stuff so i think we will have verifiers that are just about sorting out uh android apps one android app from another and we will have verifiers that are about sorting out um secure elements one from another"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "we will have verifiers that can sort out android apps from that so the verifier has a role a big role a super important role a critical role but so does the relying party so it's not the job of the verifier to make the final decision it's the rolling party that makes the final decision and they are the end user uh and consumer of attestation so we have to serve them okay nice brendan go ahead brendan you've been patiently waiting sorry all right um so so this took me a while to wrap my head around and i went through the the same um the same cycle that i i think you're going through uh so maybe i can offer my my insight on on how this all fits together um i was looking at this from a firmware attestation point of view and a firmware update point of view and when i first approached this uh this the the rats architecture i was thinking about it in terms of you know an entity that needs to verify which firmware is running on a device and a separate entity that says that the report it gets back from a device is trustworthy now that to me looks like two separate roles one relying party and one uh verifier but i have finally got it through my head that this is in fact three entities you have two verifiers and a relying party so what you have is a verifier who says yes this result is trustworthy a separate verifier that says yes indeed this is the version of firmware that it should be running and finally you have the relying party that says okay both of these guys said it's okay so now i believe you mm-hmm yeah good sounds good i think what you're looking at is exactly that same hierarchy you've got your bank that has multiple verifiers one of which has the role of selecting which other verifier to trust"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "i want to violently agree with brendan and and lawrence we've had this discussion please listen and i'm saying this respectfully because dave thaler did educate us before during the architecture that the verifier is embedded in the relying party it's a actually not something pretty about the architecture but you have to talk about attestation results as coming to our lying party even if they're co-resident it is not at the station results just because it's sent over to the same physical device it's the relying party okay this is uh diego speaking again i remember in the good old days when we were dealing with identity federations in academic space we ended up talking about something i mean the different uh um usages of the of the identities and the quality of the attributes and the sources of these attributes etc and people ended up with the concept of a level of assurance that is what you want to verify depending on the transaction whether we are talking about one hundred thousand dollars or we are talking about two cents just a suggestion that might be that precisely when going about which elements in the architecture could do what um and what kind of uh of uh of token could be useful or used or the the several steps of verification might be that now that we are with the charter someone's someone could write a draft on level of assurance or how to express them i would say that the the dloa's claim is kind of because that gets the certification and the dlla's claim actually is in that direction yeah similar to lawrence and and i think eric also uh repeated that as well as brendan i think we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:02",
    "text": "despite the initial differences i think we actually talked about the same stuff uh and have the same view i've witnessed the same debates in fido with regards to these uh sort of like multi-stage decision making processes um the question then is is that really documented well in the architecture document which i hadn't had now time to check uh and that's and maybe maybe it is uh but but maybe that's what the area where the disconnect is and there's the idealization that there's one single body to verify uh somewhere totally separate from the others uh that making the decision uh and then there's the relying party who just eats whatever it's getting uh being served uh and what i hear is it's actually more nuanced than that uh well if i recall it was it was it is documented in the architecture the question is based on the interpretation so again right um yeah the i think the architecture has has compound attesters exactly described in detail it does not have compound verifiers concept of uh collapsing roles on entities it just just there but that's different maybe from a composite that's different from a composite verifier i think um actually the composite verifier is a co-located air verifier and you can verify the verifiers with other things so so so there has been extreme pushback in the last two years on being more precise on that that is why we just boiled it down to a generic composition capability which has the obvious choice of co-locating verifier roles of the relying party rolls and it by no account ever says you can just have one verifier because there were some i would say um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:02",
    "text": "there was some pushback on on i think there's a difference between uh combined roles into a sim uh single entity versus what we have been just talking about uh where there's a multi-stage uh decision process or um kind of call it nested call it uh sequential or i don't know uh i think there's i mean i'm sensing some discomfort and and i'm trying to figure out where the clarification needs to lie because we debated some of this during the architecture hank one conversation please um and i thought we were staring towards the a like the a4 rsi draft but from the abstract i guess i'm looking at hanas right i thought some of this had been articulated perhaps not well i'm looking at you in the architecture draft or interpretation right i mean i i would say when for me relying poly po relying party policy takes into account the application the domain specific stuff like is this am i letting this thing on the network what's the transaction map is am i verifying a fingerprint or something like that the the verifier policy is all about device integrity and device trustworthiness so that's where i mean that's where how i pull them apart uh you know one is one is application specific and one is really the the domain of verifying the device um nancy i was i was merely sitting here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "and trying to make sense out of the discussions reading through some of the the emails and trying to understand like where's the disconnect and yeah that's sort of my from that discussion and from from uh some of the list discussions i had read um maybe maybe that is the disconnect but uh i would have to re-read the document to confirm and maybe i don't know maybe it's somewhat completely different okay thanks all right how much time do i get we got left um a couple minutes okay let me give you a few more minutes let me hit a couple more of the slides um appreciate the discussion uh next slide please um so this is i wanted to make this comment um i mean i think i mean at least the way i've been thinking about the interaction between uh the verifier and the relying party is it's mostly a sort of a back-end b2b kind of interaction and i think maybe some of you don't have have some other ideas about that but if it is basically or at least in the in the i think the b2b uh um use case is a big one it's one that needs to be addressed um that we need to really be cognizant of um so in that case i would say my understanding is you know json plus tls is what everybody does for b2b so in terms of that interaction we should just go with that and let the the the it guys have been doing that stuff for a long time just handle that that kind of thing so we don't don't need to worry too much about the security of that um and but i'm not i'm not trying to say we have to write a standard for this or uh go into a lot of detail i just want to be i think you know in fact i guess what i'm saying we probably shouldn't write a standard for too much of this uh next slide um okay i don't think we're going to have much time to get into identity here i don't think but i think there's some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "some discussion i don't think we have enough time to complete this but i'll say a few things here um uh i'm starting my my uh my understanding of device and identity i don't think we have a definition of it actually i don't know maybe in tcg they have one but i don't think i haven't seen one and i'm not sure what people mean when they say device identity for me device identity actually had a lot to do with telling the relying party the serial number the the oem the model number and the version i mean that's what was in the original eat draft eight zero zero as adopted by this working group that eat draft there was no verifier in there all the claims went to the relying party that was the conception and that was adopted by this working group in that form before the separation was really set there so um seems to me lots of people want to know serial number oem model and version of devices i mean verifiers want to know it and relying parties want to know it so it's like a good place to do some work uh the term identity is is misleading what if you replace it by identifier then you see that there are different communities or different industries have different ways to identify things they care about the cellular industry has other identifiers that they care about on that's on a device that has a sim card versus someone who has an enterprise equipment and so that's why it has been impossible so far to come up with a fixed number or small set of identifier types to have a good way to identify these different components that people care about that's why there's a long"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "list of them um and like i can of course provide you a long list of things that people use to identify uh the aspects like from this from the seller world uh and and from from other sectors it's just it's just a long laundry list so um better make it extensive it's it's um it's uneventful unfortunately so look at the uei id definition it is an attempt to unify them it does bring into account the cellular industry and it doesn't bring into account um ieee based identification and also yeah so we did it and it is extended some attempts to basically take all the identifies people are aware of and stump munch it into some new identifier format um and so maybe ueid is an attempt at that uh if you think there's a problem with it then then let's be specific about what the problem is so i'm i'm hijacking hi this is hank um this topic so um the uh to take up the identifier in contrast to i am absolutely with harness in the quorum work we provide an extensive list of identifiers to identify the testing environment explaining it to the verifier because it's a reference integrity manifest it's like the endorsement and stuff and the reference values and you have to understand what a testing environment is actually supposed to give you evidence evidence about which target environment that's very important for the appraiser process because if something else is doing that it might be the wrong source so as a verifier you have to understand which thing in the thing is giving you the assertions about it so that that's what column is effectively all about that's why the extensible list of methods uh how to identify a a testing environment and like a multiple of them in an attached i think that actually is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:02",
    "text": "that's the first thing i want to say and also i want to hijack this time to come back to the multiple verifier thing i'm very i said i will not touch the architecture again but if we want to say there can be multiple verifiers or multiple entities pro processing the evidence from a tester that's something i'm willing to put in that's a very small statement about how the verifier role works i think would address all the problems that we just said it could be a few sentences and i would be okay with it working that out live here on the site and then on the list so it's not a critical need for me um but the more yeah so just just just to point out on the architecture we had lots of conversation about the difference between roles and entities that host those roles and it's it and the the idea was that roles could be spread across multiple entities or multiple multiple entities could implement the same role sorry to go back there but i think there should be some discussion back and forth between you know on on identity um in particularly i mean you know if you can't use ueid for your your identification use case then let's talk about why and what's wrong with it uh that the specific comments on that i would i would really appreciate that okay so um i looked at the definition uh that you defined for ueid and it has three types of random number uh the ieee eui and the imai and what about uh um we used um uuids so so so hash the uuid and turn it in and make it random and then it's random you would stuff it into a random number that's what it is isn't it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:02",
    "text": "no not necessarily it's uh like the different types of uids uh one is for example to create the hash the domain name and and and so on so there are different types there's like so that's the detailed discussion but please probably don't have time for right now but i think that's yeah so i think i had one more slide um oh okay so uh i'm probably running out of time um so there is text in uh a pull request that i mentioned on the mailing list um i'm now calling them uh sort of verified forwarded claims rather than pass through to clarify that you can take a claim that came from the attester forward it to the uh the verifier can take the claim that came from the attester and forward it to the relying party but that is subject to the policy of the verifier and the relying party needs to know what that policy is so it's not just a blind pass-through it is subject to the verifier policy that the relying party should know and i'm hoping that resolves that question next okay then [Music] so this maybe is still um uh kind of a question of what uh what verifier does what and how you'd think about it but um i mean it's to me there's some some verifiers um verifiers are about not about are not application specific they're about the device some verifiers say the devices are good or bad and very in a very simple way you know thumbs up thumbs down um i think in some cases there's machine learning risk engines and they want to combine application specific things like the transaction"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "amount the user account the spending history and all that with knowledge about the device so uh you know they could be very complicated things that they don't want to know to know that they have the job of verifying all the details about the devices so what they want is the rats verifier to provide them a lot of validated information about the device but not transaction specific information about the device so i i see the range here of in antistation results is from very simple yes no all the way to just just check the signature know that you're getting validated stuff and pass or or forward all the stuff you you know uh on maybe even to add some other stuff so to me it's a very big uh very large range um of what can happen in attestation results okay i think that was it let me see if there's one more nope no okay i think we're out of time right well we're into the open lag time oh at this point we figured we just had open mic okay so that's it okay so uh yeah this is the second you want to choose a second session no so so maybe maybe maybe we could have a little more discussion about uh what happens i mean to me the big conceptual thing here is that uh it's emerging is that a verifier when in the rats context its job is to to do things that have to do with device integrity authenticity measurements characteristics about the device because rats is an attestation is about the device so a rat's verifier is about the device it doesn't um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:01",
    "text": "the relying party implements their policy and that's when they bring into the um the application specific thing like what you what are you trying to do what's the device trying to do play content uh you know give you a measurement that you're going to look at clear a financial transactions so that's the relying party policy so that's really where i pull apart um what's going on on the verifier and what's going on the relying party and therefore that kind of frames up what's going on in attestation results folks i guess so hey gary although hold on a sec hank was actually up before giddy i don't know no okay giddy you're up on the queue i can't hear you yet yes can you hear me yeah now we can hear you yeah on the subject of pass through claims i you know i'm speaking selfishly as a neat editor and i really don't want to see us getting bogged down in how a verifier would actually interpret a claim that uh that is presented as evidence uh before it it can be sent as a as an attestation uh in the document i think lawrence's i actually covered it pretty well on that last slide there's just two there's a there's a large gamut of what would be required particularly multi-stage verifiers for uh for um how a verifier would interpret evidence against an appraisal policy before uh relaying it as a pass-through claim um the other thing too is when we when this discussion started in the working group i looked at the rib document which i figured was the working group it was a insufficient working group uh um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:01",
    "text": "met the working group criteria for a finished standard um as far as out of station evidence and conveyance and anastasia results and it is specifically not prescriptive on how evidence is conveyed as results and i think uh you know i'm i'm not going to speak for the rib editors but i believe that that's uh that's actually a good thing because uh because i would imagine even from a tpm results can be uh results can be interpreted and processed in a multi-stage manner just like uh similar to what lawrence has mentioned in the last slide so that's my comment i'm not expecting any response to that so this is hank um so what i heard is are two items here that would be basically addressing the overall thing you can you could argue that the verifier has a policy that allows to uh take evidence values and their claim semantics and put them into attestation results but the relaying party should be very well aware that this policy exists and it was applied and then the second thing i heard was it's it's it's actually totally fine with the architecture to have multiple verifier roles one of them is co-residing on the relying party so it can actually receive evidence without any confusion and had a further ado and do the appraisal process of um evidence on the underlying parting entity and then pass it through the relying party role that's co-existing on the relying party i think that is more clear because now with this solution um the entity that is the relying party could also consume reference values and endorsements which a relying party cannot and so i think the idea that i think hannes was again going to that we can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:01",
    "text": "have fire nuances on whether multi-verifier things happens uh is the better solution because then evidence can be passed on that's unambiguous and and and at the end the relying party makes sense of it and it's entity that it is so so i think significant smaller leading towards the multiple verifier thing except instead of the policy that is re-kind of purposing the values without and then you have to understand it and might not be clear but that's just me for now this is a discussion so let's let's do this discussion okay we've only got two minutes left so eric and dave i'm gonna cut the cue at dave eric if you can make it quick i'll make it quick if you look at the architecture document relying party the term appears 125 times relying party device zero so relying party is a role not a physical item that's it yeah okay agree well it's important okay dave you're last hey yep dave taylor uh i just want to say first of all that i really liked uh lawrence's uh description of a bunch of the topics there so thank you lawrence for example the pass-through slide i really like that way of framing stuff so nicely done i guess my question is is the term passed through in any document i couldn't find it neither eat or or ar 4si or anything it's a useful word to use because i think that's the term that i'd like to update the teak protocol spec to be uh or keep architecture i think it's the protocol spec to be able to use that same term and reference a document that discusses it so that teep doesn't have to but i think it's jus it's exactly right so yeah 10 seconds yeah quick comment uh the the the pr to address this doesn't use the term pass-through it kind of says verified and forwarded and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:00",
    "text": "verified because pass-through was generating some reactions but um uh there is some text in in a pr that's uh to talk about this and you can sort out the terminology on which spec on eat okay 400 171 okay so then uh uh i will check that and i will update the uh protocol spec to use the same words and refer it as soon as the request is merged so thanks laurence all right with that we managed to be 30 seconds over so we are going to convene again is it tomorrow tomorrow yeah so we'll convene again tomorrow thank you everyone and thank you for those who attended virtually hopefully we'll see you tomorrow as well that's brendan so on this charter do i want to move this text yeah [Music] that should fight [Laughter] thank me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:03",
    "text": "so i don't know"
  }
]
