[
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:14",
    "text": "[Music] so welcome everyone to sip core we are in the business of needing a note-taker if we could have a volunteer please thank you sorry one more second and you\u0027ll jabber scribe thank you Roland is the note-taker thank you so welcome to succour and bankok ITF 103 we start with note well hopefully you all have seen this in previous meetings this week if not please read on the slides what you\u0027re signing up for if you make comments here or participate new sheets are going around we have a note taker and we have a jabber relay as you might notice we\u0027re not we\u0027re not Jean and Robert they couldn\u0027t make it here to Bangkok so we\u0027re like substitutes and that gets us to the agenda for today you\u0027re not Brian either oh sorry yes and this has been thank you very much for substituting that\u0027s very helpful no worries all right today\u0027s agenda it\u0027s pretty much like one presentation which is Christa on session time or glare any agenda bish doesn\u0027t look like all right I don\u0027t know if you say bendy and you know if Jean was planning to join remotely okay can you all hear me yes we can okay hey this is Jean Mahoney I am participating remotely and just wanted to give a brief update on the drafts first of Cour so last call has ended for the originating seed of Graham Ãªtre draft and Marianne is updating it with that\u0027s called feedback and I assume it\u0027s going to hit a teletype agenda really "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:15",
    "text": "soon the next three drafts listed are underneath the evaluation and then the next page we have our active working group drafts so we\u0027re going to be discussing social time erase today the rejected response code for rejected calls is of interests to the ster working group its received a little bit of discussion and so far and then finally the location source parameter for the geolocation header it has received some feedback the author\u0027s reviewing that and will be updating that draft soon so that\u0027s what I\u0027ve got for working group status and we can move on to Christopher\u0027s presentation Thank You Jean okay hello everyone this is something that\u0027s been going on for a while this session timer layer handling it\u0027s been on a hold for for a little while partly because on me having focused pretty much on the c.push stuff but we tried now to move forward with this so as you can see here we\u0027ve also open a github or actually the the we already had a github repo for this but we was in addition to storing the draft there we also open or try to say using the issue tracker for really opening and trying to log all the issues because we saw that or at least I it was very difficult for me to follow some of the email discussions there are threads which were jumping all over so we tried to address the issues there so please have a look so next slide please as you can see there there is also a draft and some people have comment on a draft and okay so for a first first yeah it is what it\u0027s all about so this is this is just a recap I and unless you have follow Dave\u0027s word before the current session timer RFC it\u0027s very unclear or actually doesn\u0027t really describe it at all when you have simultaneous session time a negotiation taking place at one simultaneously and what we mean by that is for example if you have the initial or even a re-invite transaction where where you negotiate the session timer and within that invite transaction what is still active you may send updates because so precondition or whatever the codec negotiation and also if in in those updates you may have session time area information and and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:16",
    "text": "then you\u0027re going to get different responses and and if the different responses have different session primary information expiration values the refresher role and all these things who are you gonna trust for example if you get the 200 in today invite and the 200 to enough date which which you know are you gonna trust and in some cases you may also the sinner invite me and may receive an update request and then you don\u0027t know you know what\u0027s this sent before the 200 okay or after and so on best ass message in this shift on the network so we really need to try to come up with a solution where you don\u0027t really have to guess in which order something was sent and and you know in which order the remote pair and and the intermediary and everything receiving and again this is actually something which is creating big problems in in deployed networks this is just not an you know an engineering exercise when you know I read their RFC and didn\u0027t have anything else to do so let\u0027s try to fix some bugs this is actually causing a lot of problems so next slide please yeah this swing like I was just gonna say yes at some point you should read it but but you don\u0027t really have to read a current version because it\u0027s not up-to-date with the discussions we\u0027ve had I haven\u0027t updated it for a long time there were some people commenting on a text but but really you don\u0027t need to do that it\u0027s gonna be changed pretty much based on the discussions we\u0027ve had and one reason for that is because initially I was maybe a little too now you think yeah we only need to update maybe one or two or three sections and that\u0027s it so it\u0027s gonna be a short crack but I say you know as the discussions have progressed we\u0027ve seen that they\u0027re probably gonna be a little need for more more updates so I really want but before I do that and and and before we discuss exactly how it\u0027s gonna look like I think we really need to at least in a higher level try to to to agree on an approach how we\u0027re gonna move forward then it\u0027s easier because otherwise it\u0027s just gonna be you know walking in the dark and and spending a lot of time yeah so next please draft please now what\u0027s happened since the last meeting and there hasn\u0027t happened too much at least as I said from my side that\u0027s very much because obviously push work no however a few weeks ago I tried to you know get this rolling again we\u0027ve had email discussions pretty intensive thank you to everyone who\u0027s participated in those like I said earlier where are we I try to use github to track the issues as always all decisions are gonna made be made here or or in the community we\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:16",
    "text": "not gonna make a decision on github but at least trying to catch the document issues too and we had a phone call last week or the week before that where we where I really try to talk about the the suggestion that I\u0027m also going to present here to see whether people interested are okay with that so so you know I don\u0027t come here with a solution and and everyone disagrees and and again no spinning top so so we\u0027ll see what\u0027s happened so next it\u0027s like this not a working assumption here like some people have said and I agreed the easiest thing as far as standardization is concerned it\u0027s just would just be to throw D\u0027Arcy away and do session primarily or over again right that that would be easy this way but that doesn\u0027t work because like I said this is deployed and everything so so we need to try to fix it now and also some of the discussions and also that\u0027s partly my fault really went into discussing other things that people found with the session time I yeah this is how we could make it better and so on but I think really we need to focus on fixing this glare issue really I mean that that\u0027s what we need to fix if there are non related bugs sure we can fix those also and like I said please put them on on on on github but we\u0027re not going to do modification or at least that\u0027s not putting the Charter and if someone disagrees please do but we\u0027re not going to do magnification just because someone thinks something could be done in a better way you know session time is what it is it has bugs and an our aim is to fix those bugs this is then I would implore implore everyone to focus on bugs that are actually breaking things yet in the field and as we also say there is obviously no solution that\u0027s gonna make every existing implementation standards compliant without any change or anything I mean if that would be the case we wouldn\u0027t have a problem right so but really we try to come up you know with the changes that that we need to do but at the same time try to make existing implementations work it\u0027s obviously not always going to happen like any standard when you find a bargain and you fix those bugs I mean you may have to update some implementations I mean that that\u0027s life so next slide please know the way we split it up is in we\u0027re going to modify the UAC procedures or we are I mean this is my suggestion we\u0027re in the UAS and the proxy procedures know the the text you see here is not an extensive list of all the procedures it\u0027s what I think is important as far as this discussion is concerned now the thing you see in the text you see in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:17",
    "text": "black it\u0027s basically existing procedures in the RFC which one I think they are important point out but they\u0027re not modified ish I mean there may be you know maybe not a master shoot but I mean it it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s implicit so for an undertakes you\u0027ve seen violet is basically the change suggestions that I had or new procedure or restriction of existing procedures etc so for the UAC and then basically if the UN search the SE which is the session expires that are filled in an invite and and the UN must insert the same as see in any update request that is sent while the invited transaction is going non-going that means before you receive the final response to today in my transaction and so on so you can\u0027t send your invite and have session expires value X and then you send update and with session expires value Y if you for whatever reason want to change to Y you have to wait until the the invite transaction everything is done and and then you can send a new one with with Y or whatever you want now this is how I want to do now when you have existing implementations day.they this even if you do this you may get conflicting information back you may get different values in the 200 to invite and the 200 to the update there is very little to do that so basically what we\u0027re saying here if the UAC gets conflicting information it really it really doesn\u0027t know what it should do just send a new update after again after the invite for a second it\u0027s done try try to you know this is the value I want to use send an update you are not going to have this invites and updates and everything you just haven\u0027t going to have that update transaction so to basically renegotiate the session timer so next slide please then the proxy first how the proxy handle is the request must reject the I guess as usually must reject invite or the request if the expiration value is too short basically what are see today say it may do so it may reject but I think we should make it stronger I mean if a proxy thinks that the value is too short it should reject it I mean that\u0027s that\u0027s what the USC do and the second bullet again violet is similar to UA us see if the proxy inserts or forwards or modifies the session expire value in an invite request it must do the same thing for all update requests that it receives "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:17",
    "text": "to make sure that the value is is is aligned now originally I suggested yeah again similar for the UAC was that if there is an ongoing invite transaction no as we\u0027ve had some discussions it has been indicated that proxy doesn\u0027t necessarily know whether there is an ongoing in by transaction and so basically we\u0027re saying here as that it doesn\u0027t need to know just insert the values in the same value in all requests now if the proxy knows that whether there is or is not an ongoing transaction it can you know do whatever it wants but in in general I think that and this is also something that plan to put in a draft try to avoid having to renegotiation the the the the session timer I mean from the beginning insert the value you want there may be some use a third party call control use case or something where you really need to renegotiate the session timeout during the session but in general they shouldn\u0027t really be a need now the response handling if there is yep when the when the proxy gets a response if it contains s session expires if the proxy must not modify it that\u0027s existing procedures and and if the response does not contain a session expires the proxy may insert it if it remembers that the request indicated support of the session timer now this is also existing procedures one one thing which was raised on on the list was that yeah this is fine but is this only applies if the UAC has indicated that it wants to be the refresher if the USC has indicated that the UAS should be the refresher on the UAS doesn\u0027t support session timer then this obviously is not going to work so that\u0027s a clarification that I think we should put into the draft so next slide please and then the u.s. again to if if the request contains SC the u.s. copies they see of the request interval response this is existing procedures nothing strange about that what I\u0027m suggesting here is that the UAS must not reduce the SC expiration value in their response currently it\u0027s allowed to do that really the suggestion here is that if the US for whatever reason wants to do it there was also a huge use case where the UAS may not even know at that point what value it wants to use there may be some ongoing precondition negotiation or whatever but the suggestion here is that just copy the same value into the response and if the UAS for whatever reason doesn\u0027t like the value again one stain by transaction and everything is done send a new update and try to fix it the session timer expiration is normally going to be pretty long I mean we\u0027re talking about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:17",
    "text": "many minutes in most cases or even more so it\u0027s really not gonna cause any trouble because most likely you\u0027re not going to send any refreshes anyway while everything is ongoing so in addition to whatever updates you otherwise gonna send forward so and if the receive request does not contain us the session expires but it does contain the indication that the UAC supported the u.s. s my include session expires in the response this is also existing procedure so nothing\u0027s changed next slide please now there are some open issues I mean this is not all of them so so so so I may have forgot something again some of the issues I don\u0027t think are related and these are not even directly related to this layer situation either I mean these are things which could happen at any time these are other so-called bugs which I think would be useful to handle I don\u0027t want to spend too much discussion on them I just want to raise them in case people are interested one of the things which was raised was that if you have an on offer update request clear situations what I mean is that you have update requests which do not contain offer and both end points sentiment at the same time this was actually a surprise to me I thought it\u0027s covered by the glare situation procedures that we have RFC 3 3 1 1 6 1 4 1 \u0026 3 - 6 1 etc but it doesn\u0027t because those procedures only apply to when the update contains an offer for whatever reason or actually when both updates contain an offer so if you send a session refresh request without an offer but and the other end point for whatever reason sends an update we don\u0027t offer for maybe wants to modify something and they collide there is no procedure for how to handle that sending for 9 month so that we need to discuss I mean we\u0027re actually there isn\u0027t is discussion already should we you know apply the four nine one declare handling situations also for this is should we just I know it\u0027s an implementation issue whatever and yeah this is the second bullet I mentioned that already is that when the proxy inserts the section expires in the response the proxy can only insert if the USD indicated that it\u0027s willing to refresh because the u.s. hasn\u0027t in the court indicated supporter lever mechanism then it was also I mean this is maybe a pure editorial issue but there was kind of discussion what initial session refresh request means because initial sounds like this is the first of something but refresh sounds so like this is something that\u0027s coming later so again we will see if we have to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:17",
    "text": "fix that somehow but I mean that should only be an editorial exercise yeah so next slide please that\u0027s it any any comments Rowland Dutch Telecom I fully support the proposed the proposals and I would like to come to an end since we are one of the hidden networks with problems on session time our real problems so with regard to that I would like to see that we come to in solution very soon so and it looks not bad Thank You Romani at the floor I also support the proposal and actually wanted to comment on some of the slides one thing which I would like to mention is on the 9th and then on offer update resolving the glare on update is kind is also related to the initial glare issue because without resolving this as well there is no easy way to kind of fix up any sort of collision issues because when we propose that frequently if we have some sort of initiation collision between invite and updates and you both user agents are not clear what the current session or session timer is that we should just do an update transaction the fact like there is a good chance both of them will do an update transaction will end up with a glare situation and end up exactly where they started so what so we kind of need to solve the there so this so in this problem is related because there is need to be a way to resolve this again there are a couple of other comments on otherwise but it\u0027s probably better to do it on list because it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s essentially details of how they will be solved but we just need to kind of look at this issue with the initial with the session time a negotiation when multiple transactions and progress and from what we\u0027ve seen solving it cannot be done as they just a separate draft which updates the session time it looks like it requires to be straf because the old updates are kind of spread out the session time address so most likely the the new B\u0027s draft would be much easier to comprehend and understand versus having a separate draft which just tries to address this issue which is going to be extremely confusing yeah I agree that I didn\u0027t bring that up on purpose because I didn\u0027t really want the discussion to go into are we gonna make a beast or not but I totally agree with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:18",
    "text": "Roman I also had some offline discussions at least with with the chairs I think Ben was involved also and where I basically said that yeah probably it would be much easier to write a base instead of trying to update because like I said there there\u0027s a lot of sections we are probably going to be affected if we\u0027re trying to in addition going to clarify CID session refresh request and so on it\u0027s it it\u0027s gonna be tricky now the the as far as I\u0027m concerned I know I know III guess gene is still on the line if we would do abby\u0027s I think we need to have a very strong statement that the scope of it sometimes we have that but you know sometimes it\u0027s getting you know sloppy and and assuming I would be the author that you know I I don\u0027t want this to become another never-ending things also so you know it should be very clear what we\u0027re gonna do this has been I agree and actually a previous commit a genius online shavelev but I agree and I was actually going to stand up and say I don\u0027t object to abyss but if you do abyss I would like people to be draconian and secure in skill control which probably means if we\u0027re going to do a business notate the milestone in some way that says here\u0027s what we\u0027re fixing and if people want to fix other things they can do their own biz Alice floors yours thank you this is Jean yes my first name is Alice I I go by my middle name so with the keeping the scones firmly in check for this draft what a quick and dirty requirements draft be helpful where you sketch out what needs to be captured or you know the list you know break it down and you know here are high-priority bugs we went to fix we\u0027ve identified these enhancements for this that we\u0027re not going to touch them I or did we just capture that in the mailing list discussions I I\u0027m just kind of tossing that out as you know is that something to consider this is been again please don\u0027t spin on own requirements I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:18",
    "text": "people know what the requirements are right so if the requirements if we\u0027re writing a requirements draft it I really hope it doesn\u0027t and blocking work on the solution but also keep in mind that you had our group wiki and things like that that are good places to document things like this that don\u0027t have a need for archival purposes you know where you\u0027re not going to no one\u0027s gonna care what the requirements Travis said after the business published and unless you think there\u0027s some reason to keep it you know that we can describe to the iesg who will start abstaining on things like this unless we have a really good reason my last two trips been to the isg they have no appetite for requirement dress at all so yeah I from experience even I used remember I can tell you that\u0027s very true and I agree and in any case of course if we would or we do the bass there will be a section where we actually describe the changes from from from the previous or the current RFC and so on but I don\u0027t think we need a we\u0027ve had this requirement our seams before one we had in our TC web the funny thing was that once we finalized that requirements draft we have it already done a lot of the solution drafts okay I you know I I just poked at that and I\u0027m hearing nope we don\u0027t need it and that\u0027s good bendy of them see if Paula is wanting to comment on this particular thing or something different here me okay Paul yep okay well just regarding acquirements I think I\u0027m in violent agreement that we\u0027ll need a requirements document that if we\u0027re going to do the best we order informally enumerate the requirements we\u0027re going to do and limiting the scope I also agree for one thing I think we have we aren\u0027t changing any even really as much about clarifications and not not changing anything and the one thing I just observed for forever that I hope we can do even though it might be optional in some sense is that nobody ever really understands this thing correctly I think it was just so poorly you know that the language of it was so confusing or misleading or something that I think it just needs a bunch of text improvements just to clarify I think but I realized that the most important thing is the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:20",
    "text": "erase condition yeah I agree I mean I think there\u0027s a lot of takes for example that can be simplified by bullet points and so on so if we do it abyss I mean sure we should also make the we can make the text more readable because I don\u0027t just want to copy pasted text which is difficult to understand but again that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s not a technical change that\u0027s and in editorial exercise so again my suggestion is to limit the scope firmly to or what the value of session timers should be when multiple transactions are in multiple session time initiation transactions are in progress at the same time if the language we should be new should be written in the more I can in this clear fashion as possible but again we\u0027re writing this draft trying to clarify things which we are not touching again should probably be out of scope the commits because we are if we\u0027re attaching this I kind of getting onto this slippery slope of trying to resolve 10-15 years worth of unclear issues that people can again discuss forever so just trying to deal with multiple like with this issue which is completely undescribed in the current draft and kind of trying to focus on that if something can be easily fix them we should fix it but again that should be pretty much out of scope we can I try to I want to limit it so it can be finished reasonably quickly this has been I was coming up to say I was exactly what Roman said and I would if there is text that needs to be made easier to read because it\u0027s ambiguous and it\u0027s causing these problems then by all means fix it but if there\u0027s just other unrelated text that is hard to read but it\u0027s not causing problems right now I would advise you not to and the reason for that is when you hit the review process and when you go to IETF last call and you go to a ESG evaluation if we can just look at a different see what the real changes are the evaluation is easy if you look at the different things that aren\u0027t related to the technical differences it becomes very hard if what happens is people start reviewing the entire document and they start trying to change all this other stuff that without a scope for your stuff you change and then we have to get into a roundabout with people to explain no that\u0027s not what we\u0027re working on this time so I have come to believe that editorial and stylistic improvements that are not material to the change being made in a bid are very risky downstream through "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:22",
    "text": "the when you start going through the general IETF consensus process no I I agree and I guess I should be clarified these so called bullet points that I\u0027ve been looking into and draft and kind of my own they are all related it\u0027s it\u0027s how you create the request you know what what what header failure in circa don\u0027t insert it so it\u0027s not all related to that then there so there is background text and everything in in the draft I don\u0027t plan to touching that and so but again this initial session request refresh that may have but but but let\u0027s see I think we don\u0027t we don\u0027t need to do anything here I\u0027m just wondering is it possible as always it has to be confirmed on the list but could we really make them try to trigger the whole thing already now so asking me whatever someone would object to to so I think the question becomes is do we are we coming to a consensus for whatever it\u0027s worth in this room on continuing with this draft or with the best effort and having that replace any efforts that are ongoing now does anyone who have not come to the microphone care I mean the thing is that if we would do a piece it would it would take some time to write the first version of it right so so and at least that\u0027s not something I want to do unless unless you know we know that I\u0027m not saying that you know I\u0027m going to write it and it\u0027s blank chick I mean people may have whatever comments on it and that\u0027s fine but but but if people have an issue with the idea of doing an abyss in the first place I think we should race it now before we start timeing you know writing writing stuff now Roland here Deutsche Telekom I was in favor for peace because I was asked so many times from my people how to implement this session timer because our interpretations going around even with let\u0027s say your company how to interpret this draft and and they\u0027re real failures and we have no business not only failure we have with with the session timer so that there are the clear situations what is when hitting both sides having doing updates and and there\u0027s a broken back to back user agent letting through these requests and everything so but nevertheless I would like to see a very fast solution to get the failures out of the network and if we can hit this code to your presentation say so that\u0027s the scope what we would like to solve that\u0027s it I don\u0027t care about a documentation so either we do that what you have done it takes new text or we could also do the piece which would be more readable for my paper but nevertheless I know what to do thank you okay sounds like from the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:22",
    "text": "purposes of what we have in the room right now the decision is to move to a this effort obviously that\u0027ll have to be confirmed on the list but I think that\u0027s the decision and by the way Chris proof you need any help I mean I know all this stuff falls to you but I\u0027m willing to help out if you need it yeah wonder if Easter XML for the IRC available somewhere because it\u0027s pretty old okay if not if not I think they can convert it their additional to for that nowadays right it\u0027s not I believe they are a fee editor can provide it it may not that\u0027s the thing I think they use a conversion tool it\u0027s not perfect but it\u0027s good enough women I\u0027m coming to the mic for gene saving a saving a saving yeah a red button push I guess gene said that she\u0027s comfortable declaring that we have a sense of the room that from discussion so far to go ahead and do a bit obviously that needs to be confirmed on the list excellent that\u0027s what I had I think that\u0027s all we have thank you everyone all right that\u0027s the end of the session thank you see you in "
  }
]