[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "or get served - maybe but see if this works if you\u0027re gonna if you\u0027re gonna sit in the jammer let\u0027s see if you see this yes - yeah I I have more trouble with Jabbar clients I\u0027m tried two minutes you don\u0027t see it the only person I can talk to - what we\u0027re leaving and you see I mean I don\u0027t see anybody else shoot huh and you\u0027re just dead Elessar Jabbar no idea there\u0027s also we also have this yeah you\u0027ve been disconnected [Music] [Music] okay I think it\u0027s are being renewed the group TLS err okay so do we have a jabber scribe or is that can be us okay John\u0027s doing it no no youyou you\u0027re it and we have a okay and the blue sheets "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:05",
    "text": "are being passed around so here\u0027s the note well so no well I guess we were supposed to read the bulb so by participating IETF you agree to the following process and policies you have to make aware of any IPR you may be recorded pictures of you may be taken and you agree to work respectfully with others that\u0027s the important one okay so agenda bashing does anybody have a problem with these jinda add something yes a little tiny okay so me and a/c haven\u0027t we haven\u0027t agreed upon the common he wants me to use PowerPoint and haven\u0027t agreed to do that yet so we have two different slide decks for her status I\u0027ll start with the is is so since London we have one new RFC it was a bit update and we\u0027ve sent two documents to the iesg the reverse metric in the second MSD and the we\u0027re ready Goom was shepherding the segment routing extensions apparently this is he was waiting on one final author to do the IPR clearance I said that if he should ask all the author\u0027s to get a hold of that author and if not then we\u0027ve got them moving to the contributor section but anyway we should that\u0027s processed food that we should have cleared up real soon now yeah and then we have a one in last call is that 7810 is that the restart so Alaskans were okay ten is not a new RLC yeah it\u0027s the business trying to move forward and I believe we\u0027re past the t mark we passed last call no that\u0027s almost completed yeah well I mean until it gets the button gets pushed right it\u0027s insane I\u0027m not quibbling I just I would really like to get that it\u0027s not it\u0027s not waiting on anything yeah yeah I would really like to get that completed as fast as possible because it\u0027s just a tiny but important correction yep yeah that one actually showed up in working group status as a new document kids went from so I think we did pretty good on the speed I went from Newt last call and one meeting okay so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:11",
    "text": "have some working group documents we have a new the LSR flex algorithm was published last time we have update drives iose that will be talked about later the blue ones are talked about yeah and then we have the desk source routing which justice was about to expire there was some concern that no one was going to work on this right and so if if you care about this right I think that you need to get some more talk going on the lists and maybe move it forward a little bit I don\u0027t see is David Lam Parker in the room I haven\u0027t seen him okay Fred Baker okay and then this is just the reason to talk about these because these are all the individual documents they\u0027re going to be protected okay [Music] and then this is yeah okay I\u0027m just gonna go through these real quickly how come it\u0027s not well hi I\u0027m holding it upside down okay okay so we have two new IFC\u0027s the OSPF beats re-extended LSAs at long last so all our extensions now should be able to cover both OSPF v2 and v3 we also have the shudras I mean she\u0027s not the only offer but the OSPF link over load which also has some identifiers in it for disambiguating parallel links both numbered and unnumbered on the we still have these on our s CQ that top one I don\u0027t know about it\u0027s waiting for IDR tunneling in caps I don\u0027t probably it would have been better just to use our own registry but it\u0027s too late now I guess because it really doesn\u0027t share much with IDR except the registry always be a segment routing there\u0027s a couple drafts in spring that are close to being I think they both gone through working group last call and are going through the discussions and beer is in is being edited that was a beer document but it was reviewed we reviewed it here as well and last called it missus working group we have these to the maximum segment def "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:13",
    "text": "that\u0027s Jeff and L and link-local interface ID link local signaling that\u0027s Peter and others both of those are we\u0027re waiting on Alvaro I don\u0027t think he\u0027s here I think he\u0027s still celebrating from the football game yesterday because he was in he was actually in Russia for the games these drafts are close we\u0027re gonna work called OSPF young model shortly thereafter shortly after this meeting we had one last meeting on it I\u0027ll let ye and talk to it next OSPF III segment routing I think we\u0027re gonna have an update today but I think we\u0027re pretty much ready for that not an update today that\u0027s wrong but that\u0027s that that is ready to last call as well and these two are stalled the first one is stalled I think we should have working group glass called this one but I had it we had a breakdown a communication with the offer or any offers to this one here I know Alberto\u0027s in office an offer on this one one of the the problem is is it contains an implementation specific part in the normative normative text that I\u0027d like to see removed and have it be reduced to not saying exactly how you use it because I think it\u0027s kind of a very implement like I said implementation specific specific so hopefully I\u0027ll contact the offers and see what they want to do and then the H bid support are there any offers here okay is here yes I I\u0027d like I where I\u0027m just waiting for them to take my comments prior to working group last call and then while we take those comments and submit another version then we\u0027re working request call them now we will have a we have a couple active working group I mean a few active working group documents we have te attribute reuse we have a update on that today from Peter SR yang again the priority is the regular yang model and this document will probably be able to go forward pretty soon because the foundation or the draft that it\u0027s based on in MPLS is through working group last call and is taking some level of comments so this I\u0027d expect to working group last call this soon and that\u0027s it in exam I\u0027ll let you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:15",
    "text": "[Music] good morning everyone my name\u0027s engine I\u0027m here this is an update of body I said our eyes are related young mothers and so here is the list of people who have been actively contributing to all these models so I\u0027d like to take this opportunity for their to thank them for their contributions and also sense for people who have provided us with valuable comments and reviewed the document so for OSPF young model since last IDF the here is the list of changes with us since last IDF and the major work we have been working on the harmonization of between OSPF and the ISS data model so for this one we are really in the stage of finishing it up and if you want to provide some comments about this one or some any feedback this is your opportunity we\u0027ve done other addressed all the young doctor review comments and we are going to have far more revision of this document right after this idea and we are going to start the last conversation of this work as I see our model so this one we although this one we haven\u0027t started the yundt out to review yet but because of the similarity of this model and the OSPF model we took the comments we got from OSPF we all talked to review and fix everything here in the SS yamato so um we also did a lot of editorial changes clean up after this IDF we like to request a young doctor reveal formally and then hopefully it will go through quick and then we threw the last cup o SP f on diocese sr young model um we do have a protocol independent segmenting model that\u0027s in spring working group these are the protocol specific part um because we do have dependency on that they face young model also we have dependency on the protocol extensions so this one will progress after those documents published that\u0027s it any questions so i don\u0027t really talk to any see about this but i i\u0027d like to progress these together like so there\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:19",
    "text": "only one reason this these documents are so large I think progressing together I\u0027d say consecutively maybe good idea but but if you send them 150 pages of yang and then you send them three well more like 120 and then you send them 240 I think 120 is preferable so the reason I want to send them together is because if they if something is found in one I\u0027d rather have it fixing them both right like so we don\u0027t we don\u0027t publish one and then later publish one that\u0027s better so Jeff I was offering a bit of advice from bf deal and we\u0027re trying to advance our yang module things get extremely pedantic at the iesg level and it\u0027s better if you actually have one of them go through that process and get those resolved before you actually try to no role in the other document otherwise you\u0027re gonna get a lot of free it\u0027s called um unusual comments that it\u0027s easier to resolve once and just say oh you saw this already and then move it neck support okay so although we are seems like that sequentially but we are really doing working on them together so other young thoughts or comments that we got from OSPF or regular dressing I say right I mean I think my main concern was like the way that PFD didn\u0027t get integrated in eye size until like a whole other meeting happened right so I didn\u0027t want to see the same extra meeting added to the process thank you do you know who\u0027s up next is it Peter yes it\u0027s two or three three and three is new territory here is this there\u0027s one you want to start with you have a thing there yeah I have to make you know how to work it what\u0027s this this is our PowerPoint yeah yeah view is it\u0027s not a Mac noise it no this is like a present try that yeah okay what\u0027s this accomplice yeah it\u0027s a Chromebook fancy new alright so quick update on the link ativy to use draft "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:28",
    "text": "oh it may be it doesn\u0027t work at the PowerPoint okay let me what is it doing okay all right so a major change that we introduced in the latest update is that we edit the OSP obesity and coding stories so we have the OSPF we see entirety LSA which is been defined in the old RFC now we have the extended router LSA for that has been defined for v3 so basically what we are doing is we are putting the Lully app specific link attributes inside this extended LSA we use the registry which has been defined for this to allocate the code points it\u0027s exactly the same approach will be used for SPF e 2 so we have our original TSA which is used to propagate the attributes for TE and then we have the other applications for which we used the new extended router side one other change that we did we changed the name of the TLB because we have extended link let\u0027s say we had extended link TLB and then we had exiting attribute sub theory which has been a little bit of more too much of the extended stuff so we call this an application-specific link attributes sub theory so we just renamed it and now it\u0027s becoming subtly of either the USP v2 extended link TLD or OS BBC router link tle itself the other changes that we made the maximum link bandwidth as an application independent attribute and we moved it out of this sloth of TLV basically the rationale is that because this is application independent it doesn\u0027t make much sense to advertise it as an application specific attribute and you know introduce all the or advertise with all the bits set instead we basically say we put it you know the top-level TLB saying you know this is completely independent so now we can advertise this inside the extended link TLV USP v2 or in a router LS a router link TLB noise PVC if you use the same forward as has been defined earlier just put it there in this new containers we also added the local and remote ipv6 address sub TLV so you can advertise these two addresses for other purposes than te so we could put it in Nice PVC and you know extended router let\u0027s say all turning TLV like this so these has been the changes I mean the document has been there for quite some time we have presented it several times there has been no major changes I mean the OS PVC and coatings "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:28",
    "text": "are changed but there\u0027s nothing you know changing what we do I think it should be ready by my next idea for Alaska any questions [Music] okay so this is an update on the Flex algorithms so what happened from the last IDF this has been accepted as a working group document we also merge the OSPF and ice is like salgo of stuff into this single draft so it covers both OSPF OSTP to a nice PVC and there has been some early on allocations done for OSP routing information TLV and also for the eye size article ability TLB to advertise d the flexible definition okay next slide please so as i said now we are covering all three protocols the other important change has been that we originally defined this to be really only used by a sorry but there has been a feedback from the group on the last IDF to make this and usable for other applications so now we basically allowed this flex algo to be used by any application by but we need to be careful here because three the handling of each of the application or how the application is using this needs to be defined for each of the application independently what we are defining in this draft is how we are using this flex I\u0027ll go inside the SR for other applications they have to define this elsewhere we are not defining it here there has been a lot of editorial improvement there\u0027s a lot of good comments coming from Eric Rosen and Tony thanks for that so we improved this significantly that has been restructured so it\u0027s much easier to read at the moment next slide please so we changed some of the names of the fields the TLB itself didn\u0027t change but we renamed the algorithm field to be in Flex algorithm field basically this is the value from hundred twenty eight to 255 which basically is a numeric representation of the of the calculation type metric type and a set of constraint so this is all being encoded as representing these three things in a single value and the calculation type itself the algo type has been really renamed to calculation type because this is what we want and the value comes from the zero 227 it\u0027s a standardized value from the IGP algorithms types but we say "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:28",
    "text": "if the algorithm time defines anything else than the calculation type we only take the calculation type because the algorithm type can specify some other stuff than just the calculation time so we could I mean that was the intention originally but we call if I didn\u0027t text there is one other thing which has been missed in the last version is that basically we specified that if the Flex alga definition has something in it which the router doesn\u0027t support basically the router has to remove the participation from the algorithm because basically it can\u0027t compute so this has been specified in the text and we also specified on on or put more details about the node participation so what we say is that the participation in the Flex algum must be algorithm specific because now we want to use it on for different applications and the reason why we need that because if certain applications want to use it it needs to you know install the forwarding entries so for segment routing we are basically advertising the the participation based on the segment routing extensions which has been defined for in the icpsr extensions it is a topology independent advertisement so basically it means if I\u0027m participating in a certain algorithm it applies to all the topologies I participate for the other applications again it needs to be specified for their applications in some other graphs we are not specifying it here it can be signaled on a pack topology can be topology independent it\u0027s up to the application how the application no signals the participation the calculation itself again originally we only were talking about how to calculate for a segment routing here basically we say what do we do for the segment routing also the other applications have to specify you know how are they going to use I can calculate the pass one thing which needs to be considered is what do we do with the nodes which are not participating in for segment routing what we say the nodes which are not participating in a certain algorithm they are not going to be used in the computation the other application may decide to do the same or may decide to do something else again it\u0027s up to them to define their behavior and the last thing obviously the forwarding we specified that how do we use the segment the Flex nagas forwarding in the context of the segment routing vary we used the Flex alga specific seats and use the MPLS forwarding we specify that if there is no flexin alcoci we don\u0027t install any forwarding entry and if there is no forwarding entry the traffic which is supposed to be for what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:29",
    "text": "it must be dropped this is how we want to use it in the context of the SR there are there are other applications again they can specify what they want to do and if they want to do any kind of a fallback to a default algo it\u0027s up to them again it\u0027s not in this draft so we are waiting for more feedback we would like to continue to evolve the job we have some implementations available so there is work going on this a synonym systems Peter if somebody were couldn\u0027t somebody I mean it might be unwieldy a bit like not via if you remember that couldn\u0027t you define a separate loop back for each service and this would work with that if somebody wanted to define all the details or is that something that\u0027d be hard to do I lubic you mean specific address yes okay yeah yeah okay but the intention here is you don\u0027t have to exactly right but that that would be one thing that could if somebody really wanted to do that on base side sure yes and that would be described in a separate draft probably yes okay any other questions feedback speaking is working real chair I wasn\u0027t asking for this strap but just hypothetical okay so the next one is the ice is a sorry six extension for ice ice there\u0027s a lot of contributors on top of the outers on the graph so we put the names here okay next slide please and there isn\u0027t there is an OSP of e3 equivalent it hasn\u0027t been updated yet based on what we did in the ice ice but that\u0027s next thing to do so you have a nice view of history document which is going to follow the same thing that we didn\u0027t I sighs so the major changes from the last version so we used to have the notes it TLB we have removed that and we replace it with the SR v6 what we call a sorry six locator T le the end seats are now being advertised as a sub theory of this sorry six locator Tinelli all the MSD sub t always has been or the seat depth is now they are being advertised as using the MS D sub T of e which is defined in a mention draft and we added the support for topologies and algorithms in the English version so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:30",
    "text": "this is high level and then I\u0027m gonna go over the details so in the previous version I mean that there wasn\u0027t any really association with the algorithm for a seat so basically if we look at what the CDC is just a 28 bit value it has certain structure and basically locator and a function function code so the locators are the entities that are algorithm and topology specific so as are the seats in the MPLS each locator basically covering old and all the seats which are advertised from the node and this basically means that the locators are the entities which are installed in the forwarding of the transit routers the seats are not so basically the routing entities are the locators and these locators will be topology and algorithm specific next likely so here\u0027s an example you have the zero basic topology based apology based algorithm you define the locator which is a slash 64 and then you define your seats various functionalities as 128 and then you have another empty id0 algorithm on a 28 you do in a different locator and then you define your seats so these seats are basically covered by the locators itself those locators are advertised and installing the forwarding so the e36 located here Lee is the TLD that we use to advertise this I\u0027ll talk of topology and algorithm specific locators they are ignored by the legacy routers obviously we do install the forwarding entries based on these advertisements the locators if the note obviously is supporting si v6 for that specific topology an algorithm has to install the forwarding entry based on these advertisements the locators will could also be the locators could also be advertised as a prefixed reachability T in inside the prefix h ability T always that means that the legacy routers could actually install them and and release them in the forwarding as well so basically this is used for a backward compatibility obviously it is optional it\u0027s up to the user to decide what he wants to do ACM Cisco Systems so in that case a router that did support this wouldn\u0027t wouldn\u0027t ignore that and install it would use the other advertisement I guess it wouldn\u0027t matter because it would results in the same forwarding plane for a transit router anyway it will I mean the router which understands will see this advertisement coming is in the two different Elise yes and we say that we prefer the prefix reach ability advertisement from TS r v6 locator "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:30",
    "text": "consonant okay so this is as I show up very nicely Honda on the Honda fixture so this is how it looks like I seen you can only can look at it I mean it has the it has the the locator itself which size it has the algorithm encoded in it we have Flags there\u0027s one flag which we define it\u0027s to indicate that it was leaked because this is something that we can leak between the between the areas and there are sub D always optional video haven\u0027t defined any but just for the future we defined a sub tle space there so the end seats up the earth actually we did the DN C sub theory is a sub theory of this so the N side is the equivalent of the notes in ultra fixing in the MPLS kind of it inherits the topology and algorithm from the locator advertisement it is not associated with any neighbor it must be a subset or sub subnet of the locator TLV obviously any of these seats itself they are not being put into the forwarding they these are basically leaked together with the top-level TLB and these are some of the SRB six endpoint functions that are supported in the next slide so again this is this is the the format so you have the the seats you have the flags no flex so far you have the endpoint function and then the seed itself and it was optional sub T always so the asari six and exits these are the equivalent of the adjacency see it so these are advertised inside the the existing tlvs as a part of the neighbor each ability advertisement so 22 and you know he related TL is it in here it\u0027s the topology from the neighbor advertisement so we don\u0027t need a topology to be there but the algorithm itself must be specified so that is part of the heisman obviously it should fall into the or must fall into the locator space the that is going to be used for for forwarding none of this is going to be installed in in the forwarding itself again we are relying on the locators which are going to cover this and we have the end X and and DX 6 you know as defined in the necessary 6 network programming draft and we have two versions one is for point to point in average for LAN so this is how the TLB looks like again there\u0027s an algorithm field there which is an important piece "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:31",
    "text": "and then the city itself a bunch of flags and sub theories can you have a next one is going to be the LAN yeah this is the de Lyonne version of it with the system ID additional system ID next one so this is this has one bunch of the flags these are the same flags that we defined for the adjacency seeds for the SR MPLS so it\u0027s the same thing being copied here next slide and then we have the SIV six capability sub T which basically indicates that the node is supporting a service six and there are some optional sub sub theories but there hasn\u0027t been any one any of these define there\u0027s one bit which is the old wait which indicates the support for the OEM which is defined in the other graft which is mentioned there next one and the last thing we basically changed the way we advertise various SR v6 maximum segment stuff and for four different functionalities so this has been advertised in a different way now we have moved them into what we specified in the segment routing MSD draft so there are sub theories of the TLB which is defined there it gives us the possibility to advertise these not just on a parent node basis but also on a peddling basis which you didn\u0027t have before so that\u0027s the major or it\u0027s the advantage of doing it this way among the others I guess it said I\u0027m from Hawaii and one question about the NZ sub TL we can go back to the salon and and X an accident yes I see you added the support for the algorithm in and exceed sub t OE right yes the algorithm field yeah but in the SRM purist algorithm is only applicable to the prefix C right but the reason is that because the the end exceed its global here in this harvey six and although the allocator itself contains the algorithm field right so you can argue why do we need it here the reason why we edited the a chest for a consistency because this comes from in a different TLDs it may come in a different LS piece you may change things you may change the algorithm of the locator you may configure it may miss configure and suddenly what will happen is that you have certain locator which you want to use for a certain algorithm but the the end exit would actually fall from the forwarding perspective will be part of a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:32",
    "text": "different locator and we don\u0027t want that to happen we want the strictest association so you basically by specifying algorithm here you make sure that you are not going to use the wrong locator during the transition that\u0027s basically the reason okay so if there\u0027s any inconsistency between these sub TLV and the locators algorithm yes which one will be preferred but basically what you say is if I have a locator which is for a certain algorithm yes I make sure that this one will pick that one and not the other one because for example if you for some reason remove that locator that this one may fall into a different locator so it is like you want this it to be algorithm five but it will fall back from the forwarding perspective the best man would be something the locator which is of algorithm six you don\u0027t want that to happen you want to make sure that you pick the right locator so that\u0027s the reason why we have the algorithm field here okay thank you sure so I think I had less presenting that okay so you\u0027re gonna do the know I mean if you want to do the other presentation yeah let\u0027s go yeah I mean I just I didn\u0027t know if you got tired of talking um have you worked with your bgp collaborators on the same stuff to make sure the changes are in both drafts you mean from the BGP LS perspective yes okay you\u0027re working on it Toni dynamic flooding so let\u0027s let\u0027s keep moving to I think last year yeah for the gates all right this is probably not gonna be very long one okay unless Ginsburg I presented this at last ITF not much has changed so what kind of zip through this pretty quickly next slide um so what are we trying to do here one of the things that\u0027s missing from RFC 5300 zss grace will restart is we did not have the ability to signal to our neighbors in advance that we\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:32",
    "text": "we\u0027re about to go under undergo a restart which means that the neighbors are not aware and they therefore can\u0027t if there are other topology changes that occur during the restart they can\u0027t take that into account and understand that the router which is restarting its Forney claim may no longer be valid so okay I\u0027ve covered that so we added two more bits into the TLV so that we can indicate that a restart is planned and so that the neighbor can acknowledge that so that the router which is about to go undergo restart and delay a little bit and understand that its neighbors are now ready prepared for the router to go ahead and restart what does the neighbor do when he receives the plant restart he just marks the adjacency state as being in restart he updates the whole time based upon what\u0027s been sent to him and he sends an acknowledgement and then this the state will get cleared when the actual restart occurs and he receives hello with the the restart request it was normal this allows again the neighbor if there are topology changes that occur during the period of the restart the neighbors can take that into account and understand even though they\u0027ve been maintaining the adjacency in the upstate maybe it\u0027s no longer safe to do so so the only change that\u0027s been made since v-0 is there was a suggestion from uma I believe that we summarized the changes so we\u0027ve done that in the appendix and what I\u0027d like to do now at this point there\u0027s been you know no objections to this draft since the last idea so I\u0027d like to go ahead with a working group adoption call questions does any okay so let\u0027s see does anybody object to working your adoption of this no and two people support it raise your hands yes see some hands ask on the list but that\u0027s good okay also I\u0027ve been peeking into the jabber room and there\u0027s a common comment that which is no slide numbers so it\u0027s helpful if the presentations have slide numbers I guess they were heard that comment before now yes all right so is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:40",
    "text": "aiming doing it thank you hi good morning I\u0027m Nanshan and I have present the dist before in Singapore yes and this is just a brief update so basically this proposal is to support a large number entries in for routing in the DC fabric and mainly it started with trying to support the overlay routing with this Isis as underneath and we supports the auto tier discovery and this is for the zero touch gtp and the main purpose of the proposal obviously is to minimize the flooding information yeah to minimize the flooding during the link down and know down those negative events in the network and this proposal works with the other mechanisms such as the open fabric what dynamic flooding proposal recently introduced so the for the last year those are the main changes we added the tier information so if somebody wants to do the auto discovery and without explicit provisioning and as long as the tier zero is no and this can be discovered dynamically and recent in the most recent revision we added a bit in the link attribute of the of the ice ice subtly nineteen of the theory 22 to say out of this link my connection is a live "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:43",
    "text": "note so if you are doing a dynamic flooding and algorithm you don\u0027t even need to consider those leaving notes so it reduces the scaling of the algorithm and make it simpler for the network and the lastly there some comments are the question arm yeah the info requester sub theory is a ask of force basically information being linked or no doubt but how do you ask for withdraw those information when the link comes back so this is just following the normal ice ice LSP mechanisms so there\u0027s no new signaling is needed so we added some more text in the draft to explain this portion and yeah obviously request form in further review and the comments and I at least know of one implementation is underway based on this proposal and the authors would like to request working group adopts questions yeah so so we have a lot of flooding optimizations and Chris and I have been having discussions on that and so we\u0027re gonna ask the working group for input as to how to move forward and as far as people that want to deploy them I\u0027ll be honest we don\u0027t completely agree on the various tracks but so we\u0027d like to give a lot of working group input on this you want to add about the requirements no but yeah I mean I I don\u0027t think we\u0027re to disagreement um I just we\u0027ve got a lot of different solutions to sort of a common problem and I\u0027m just wondering do we just you know does it just pick everybody\u0027s favorite solution might let the market decide yeah III don\u0027t know but I would like some maybe some input from the group on how we think the best way to move forward is with with all these different ideas Jeff has a I\u0027m not following this work very well so it\u0027s not that it\u0027s not clear I just don\u0027t pay attention else our group heavily one of the my observations here is that this seems be pitched for a standard no clothes advert type topology which is very popular right now but one of the things we\u0027ve seen in the presentations including you know like the open fabric presentation is that other topologies are being explored for things my question slash "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:43",
    "text": "comment to you all is this is optimized for that situation if you end up with a different topology other than Clos how does this feature potentially interact with those so as you consider do extensions you know consider how it might actually interact if you try to deploy it a different topology I actually this is just a ceiling this is observation I think this one is simpler that it\u0027s just between tier 0 and tier 1 so it\u0027s not we limited to Clos right and that\u0027s going to be probably the the single most common thing when you look at the other topologies know is when you get no an extra layer to up that it becomes more interesting but my suspicion based on how this is seems to be presented is that the generalization of here\u0027s how it apply for the next levels are you actually doing Auto provisioning though for topologies no like all you have basically the easy mode for clove and therefore you\u0027re going to have no this is your 1 1 2 and that they auto discover each other and can tell that they\u0027re miss wired for example I I guess yeah for the zero touch provisioning it is targeted it close right and Chris Martin arista I was just gonna say that if you look at the agenda we still have I think two or three more presentations that cover areas like this and that doesn\u0027t include what\u0027s happening for example and rift so going back to your point AC or and both Chris and AC in terms of how the market looks at this I would say that there\u0027s really what I mean from my view and just Jeff just mentioned this as well there are at least four different approaches that are really tied to Clos and then there\u0027s maybe one or two that are in terms of generic topology so maybe we look at them as they apply to them maybe the bigger use case which is which is leave spine or Clos and then you know the generic use case which is arbitrary through ologies and then let let\u0027s decide there because there obviously is a big need for addressing this problem and I just going back I mean having these discussions over the past couple years we\u0027re trying to solve a flooding problem that\u0027s kind of limited link state protocols being used in leaf spine or in close apologies if that\u0027s what we\u0027re trying to do then that should be the fundamental requirement you know a lot of the work that\u0027s coming out now over the past five years has been to try to fix the flooding problem so we have BGP being used to fix flooding when now it looks like everybody said well maybe we should just fix the flooding problem so if that\u0027s the fundamental requirement I don\u0027t know if Chris is what you\u0027re suggesting that we go to a requirements document first to try to solve flooding problems in iGPS does that say if that I mean I there Dave cats at a presentation at Manoa in 2000 and it was this comparative anatomy presentation and basically there\u0027s a slide that literally says you know the problem with scale is reduces really to flooding this is almost 20 years ago and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:43",
    "text": "there\u0027s been no attempt made so if that\u0027s really where we\u0027re trying to do them why we just focus on that yeah so that\u0027s all really good I don\u0027t I don\u0027t know whether we go to a document or not or if it\u0027s enough to just talk on the list but I think especially when you get competing solutions if the focus is to try to pick one then then sometimes a requirements document helps focus that but I don\u0027t know if we\u0027re there yet so I must wait LinkedIn so my take on this is is I\u0027m much preferential to having unified signaling better than a unified solution at this moment because there are different scales and different kinds of topologies like Chris said and asya said that you know we need to look at and I would just prefer for the moment just to get on the path of having unified singling and let\u0027s worry about the the the which solution is best depending on what happens in the marketplace and where things go in the future because I\u0027m not convinced that a requirements document requirements pretty simple and I\u0027m not certain that a requirements document gonna be able to capture like operational realities in a way that\u0027s gonna have to be helpful in the long term just a thought just in sort of North death rooms so few 80s ago we started routing in DC effort if you remember and as a result we put two new working groups rift and the other dike so I don\u0027t think the end goal is to reduce flooding and goal is to be able to address the body a particular size and this what should be so there was a document requirements for this routing and number one or number two required was really ability to address large topologist without hiking around so I don\u0027t should be focused on reducing flooding who should be focusing on addressing particular topologies particular size and see how if this is a new protocol fit into this picture hi this is Dina I haven\u0027t been following this work but 4-leaf spine topologies which will be a huge market in enterprise if you want to solve the you know a lot of people have been talking to me about this and I said I thought Dave can\u0027t solve this with mesh groups a long time ago like which was referenced but if you want to fix the flooding problem and simple even though large-scale leave spine topology is just you static routing have you considered using static routing has the group considered using static routing for leaf spine topologies I\u0027ve thought it but I yes yeah I think you\u0027re the first person to say to them Mike I think I think I\u0027ll "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:43",
    "text": "you see me in static routing I\u0027ll take you a long way a lot of these dynamic ah controller based solutions basically due to static routing it\u0027s just coming it\u0027s just more dynamic than in the past yeah that\u0027s what those are just just son right use yeah no that\u0027s I just written up my AC it\u0027s kind of funny you brought that up because what is it Sdn controller do it\u0027s a management plane that configures static routes right we did this in the 90s with IP route commands using what was the name of that rancid was the script kiddie right but this proposal is there similar to step karate you actually installed to stand karate or instead across Tony P juniper so links to fail so as met observe you withdraw the route when the link fails [Music] okay all right so as met observation I think the problem neatly split along whether you have a direct topology the north-south sense or whether you have a generic topology and if you work on that stuff I think you have to keep it apart I think in the north south the director topology is actually quite tractable and there\u0027s a couple of different proposal of different properties the generic problem has been walked for twenty years right with by multiple people with poor results and I do not think that the results will improve because nothing new nothing new in graph theory and the properties you will find hot links and so on and so on are still in place whether the north-south is more immediate and I think it\u0027s much more tractable so it\u0027s kind of meta input yeah agreed it\u0027s more into like the first here fully mesh that Canova simiiariy okay well that was useful yeah let\u0027s start a thread on this on the list in any case we\u0027re not gonna commit to asking for adoption to any of these today okay let\u0027s switch back to the lead i Namek flooding i don\u0027t know who wants to present that peter may be here i think we got that loaded then i don\u0027t know it\u0027s almost like when you\u0027re trying to set up a conference up right and here here I got it does things about there\u0027s a meeting minutes here obviously the Chromebook was what was targeted at different generation yeah I think that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:45",
    "text": "Argus too speedy did you move it up here oh good all right okay so this is an update on the dynamic flooding draft okay so the major major changes that basically there are two major changes first we have the encoding for all the three protocols now it was originally defined just for ice yes and the other thing is that originally this was defined to work only in the centralized mode we also introduced a new mode which is a distributed one because we thought maybe some people would like to do it that way so the concept of the area leader but when it was defined originally it was the one who basically computes the flooding topology so those who are not familiar with this basically this is one of those tasks that try to solve the flooding problem and the way we are trying to solve this flooding problem means to reduce or calculate the flooding topology on top of the existing topology and only flat over those flooding topologies so originally this was defined to work in a centralized mode where an area leader computed the topology flooded the flooding topology and and everybody would flood based on what this area leader calculated and announced now we introduced the distributed mode where basically we leave everybody to compute the flooding topology using as some you know algorithm which we agree on and basically it doesn\u0027t it removes the requirement for the for the flooding of the flooding topology itself so the area leader now has either can in a centralized mode is the one responsible for calculating and propagating the flooding topology in a distributed mode it only advertises what is the algorithm which is going to be used by everybody else to compute it obviously we only need a single area leader in the area there\u0027s no need for everybody to participate in the area leader election the obviously would become a few more ways to do so for the redundancy so as I said in the centralized mode HD area leader who does the calculation and distribution in a distributed mode it\u0027s all the participating routers who calculate the plotting topology itself obviously we need them to agree on something and that is being advertised by the area leader we can either use a standardized algorithm which will tell us how to calculate this because we need "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:45",
    "text": "all the routers to do the same calculation obviously to have the consistency in the flooding it is also possible to use the private algorithms but we need to obviously make sure that everybody else you know agrees on what that private algorithm is so there\u0027s been a change in the area leadership TLB where we edit the algorithm if it is zero then we assume that this is a centralized mode and then we added a space for the standardized algorithm in a space for a private algorithms the area system added sub TLB we removed the ending index because it was redundant we have the TLB length we can calculate what is the last index in the ple and there has been quite a lot of editorial changes so what is the flooding behavior if we receive an update on the link which is part of the flooding topology we flooded on all the remaining links in the flooding topology if you receive an update on link which is not part of the flooding topology we flooded over all of the links in the flooding topology and when there is a change in the following topology itself for a short amount of time we need to flood over just the the union of both of these new one and old one just to make sure that you know everybody else converges to the new clotting topology and we added the OSP of extension for this so we have area leader sub TLV which is part of the routing information LSA which is both v2v see we have the dynamic flooding epochal si being defined for this to be used by V 2 OS BBC organic body let\u0027s say to be used by OS BBC both of these are only required in the centralised mode they are not needed in the distributed mode and then we have the equivalent of the existing eye size up tlvs used to announce the be the flooding topology itself so I guess I\u0027m not going to even ask for the working group adoption but we would like to continue to evoke this draft we need to define some standardized algorithm how to compute the flooding topology and if you guys have any good ideas yeah all done welcome and we would like to start to work on the implementation of this comment so is there an implementation they may we talked about that is underway with this yeah we are looking at that yeah okay so so for both the last two or these funding reductions there are at least people looking in implementations so again this is a generic solution it\u0027s not tied to any specific topology can be using any arbitrary technology this is a naive comment I have really thought about but it isn\u0027t like a pin or I mean doesn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:47",
    "text": "multicast distribution give you server tree could that be an algorithm but it\u0027s not reliable well you may have want to have some more here right I mean you can come up with the very simple spanning tree and it would give you but you don\u0027t even more yeah you want at least by connect the topology maybe even some more redundancy so any failure would not basically leave anyone without the data yeah so it\u0027s a bit more interesting problem to solve yeah Thanks thank you go I gotta get out of that mode yeah and then this is our and I usually could control them make it open we\u0027re kind of cruising along here this one is so am I here I\u0027m up doesn\u0027t even have a chair where did they go is your yep hello everybody my name is Uma I\u0027m going to talk about preferred path routing last IETF I talked about this concept but you know thanks to us Jeff and Lewis has given a lot of feedback so we are updating with this title next next slide sorry okay so what let\u0027s look at a simple scenario just before going to the problems simple s our network here a 1 to a a a 7 is a shortest path it\u0027s in blue line and it\u0027s an MPLS network Empire MPLS network global indices indices are shown for each node and hi Jason see if you have an SR path from a to a 8 B 2 B 2 X a 9 a 10 X a 7 shown in the purple line it uses both nodes later and a distance it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s a total eight six rates its stack so this number can go up based on the MST capabilities you have all kind of nodes it can be there in deployments right from Broadcom chips too high and chips juniper Huawei Cisco whatever so various MST rld capabilities you need insert the Lal pair at the appropriate transport stack so the stack.size a signal can go higher and if you use ipv6 you have to use ipv6 and cap header RS 8200 basically and you have to use as a red setter with all 8 6 with ipv6 addresses basically 16 ipv6 8 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:50",
    "text": "16 a good success so what\u0027s the deal with this we have couple of issues with this in the deployments like say deployments you have hardware capabilities various nodes can support various adepts so so we have a solution for this MST maximum seat depth capability so with this PC can compute alternate paths based on the constraint of MST but it may so that you may not have the paths available so that\u0027s number one and second one is line rate issues we have we have test run on the ipv6 as our v6 header with multiple Sates it\u0027s a huge significant performance down line rate down Jeff has some data on that with various chips so that\u0027s one second ratio 30 she\u0027s empty issue with the high end Packers close to 1500 we have if we put if we add bunch of sites with ipv6 SRH header we have empty empty on fragmentation issues this is serious issuance fragmentation issue you have to we have to empty issue you need to change the network nodes a couple of configurations need to be changed it\u0027s a serious issue and apart from that we have Phi G header tags there are some of the Phi Z slices like mio T URL C is defined by small small packets packet sizes ranges from 4200 bytes and this is also common in fixer scenarios where interactive and you know online gaming kind of things away the short packets are prevalent with this 4200 fights packet you have to introduce 200 to 300 bytes of net attacks so it\u0027s a huge tax has set its max up to losses of bandwidth so what\u0027s the solution we are introducing a TLV which describes the path so routing happens based on the path you have four components here you have reachable TTL we have that prefix for example 135 to 35 to 37 to that RMT capable is stl ways whatever is reachable tell we put the prefix there put a PPR ID that\u0027s creeper PPR that identifier if you have MPLS data plan itself it\u0027s a node set are as global adjacency said or whatever if it is ipv6 data plants ipv6 address it is v4 data points the v4 address and bunch of TLB is which describes the path that is path description element and third last one is PPR attributes which specifies the attributes for example for traffic monitoring traffic usage cases you can just specify that these these traffic parameters need to be accounted for for this path this can be described with GPR attributes there are some other T parameters that can be added later so how do we do computation a simple example here r1 to r4 in the Purple Line this is a strict PPR that means all the nodes and their distances are listed with this so let\u0027s say for example on the our line if when the TL is received "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:52",
    "text": "to reach to the SPF on suspect on petition is done or to reach to our for the next stop is r11 so because it\u0027s shortest path so but based on the PDE list PD says path description says the next next next next element is our 10 so the next stop we changed to our 10 so for your SPT computation your tax trust nothing need to changes during the round download just dip into the pantry get your get your last PD element and change the next stop that\u0027s all you need to do and same thing happens upstream all the nodes and for the loose PPR that means all the nodes and edges senses are not listed for example in the yellow lane R 1 2 R 4 R 6 2 r 7 is not listed it takes the shortest path based on the Dijkstra\u0027s so for that but you know various data planes require way this capitalist for this also described in the draft you need two levels here in summary it\u0027s a simple change from next stop from the action like stop Spica connect stop to the next stop as described in the PD list that\u0027s all you need to do and you have to of course you need to program the data plane with the corresponding data plane with the next so with this all FR solutions your IP l fa a-- motty\u0027s RL fa k LF whatever is there today computed l FS can be directly can be directly used you just have to take the next step of the computed new next stops LFA\u0027s local productions it can be applied but there is also a lot more can be done with this that will be discussed later so what is the relation combining said some people ask there\u0027s no relation to binding sage is earlier the ASR extensions of this advertisement of PR was are there and with binding sites as of today talks about advertising it\u0027s a mapping server functionality here apart from that traffic accounting there are multiple solutions for traffic accounting in my ETF right now so which introduces because of the problem with SRM LS sees when you keep on going from one sequence another segment label will be popped so you don\u0027t have a notion of path into the into the packet so with this there are there are problems in the sense like you know how do you account for how many packets are pushed onto the each node and intermediate nodes so there are solutions way apart the path labels are introduced the problem with path labels is you need to put a special label followed by path level so it\u0027s already you have a cig depth issue will increase more more labels to this sure so one of the solutions talked about is why don\u0027t you compute at the ingress nodes you can do that but what happens is if you do FRR any link our node failure happens those statistics will be off so what we are saying here is in the path attributes you can advertise what are the path the statistics need to be mounted those can be stored into the node and those can be pulled through G RPC or whatever kafka part out that can be used so the original example the same "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:52",
    "text": "8 sets with entropy labels at the right are LD 6 here so you have to put them to be level at the right spot Lal label so with this around 12 labels transport labels those service level is only one here it can be more yeah VPN prefix label we have VPN address peer engineering labels you have for address not protection it could be in any case like two to three label service levels will be there so we\u0027re talking about around 50 labels here so we are with the solution talks about only transport label optimization with transport label you have to fix shortest paths it that is the note said we have the PPR ID another note said and you described the path of this notes and this gets complex to one label same with the service it\u0027s the advantage with a sorry substitute here so with eight sry six in and SRH it\u0027s a serious problem so it can be reduced to one the remaining places you can use the remaining six you can be used for other programming or whatever VPN labels you can be used for VPN 6 so the transports is reduced to one here so the hang data model is described in this stuff meant for PPR there are couple of questions searching is asked last time what about scalability yes there are n nodes n square paths total Pass and with K multiple of each node yeah so but not all not all paths need to be preferred paths only small set of paths or preferred paths we have dimension the network with two hundred nodes five hundred nodes thousand nodes and two thousand nodes with 15 percent capability I\u0027m there from H nodes two parts so the sRGB for MPLS case for a lot of customers ask what is srgb usage so around 15 percent extra labels are needed for srgb it\u0027s not a big deal but but separate solution we are trafficking a separate solution to scale this with a street tree structure the tree is rooted at their destination and multiple input point can be there so this is a separate work where few scaling has to be done this will be published soon totalus is working on this so we will come back to this soon actually so but as it is this stuff independent sustain so where forget nut and fight use cases only from you node B to UPF only three slices will be there so the total path will be less than 500 based on the network though so so with the tree structure anyway the N square problem is come to a linear issue KK star n order of n so it\u0027s a it\u0027s a linear scale and another advantage of this is you have hot steering support for native IP data planes this is very important for legacy networks and Phi G especially where s at least six works has to upgrade all the boxes because it\u0027s a new header new half way half extension header so fast steering can be done with the PPR ID ipv4 and ipv6 set up ones so there\u0027s a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:53",
    "text": "somewhat going on remember Dino knows this city for response is being framed from 3gpp what they are looking for optimize get a plane on the new and nine interface on so there are competing solutions there a sera t v6 there are computing capabilities Lisp and ila so this solution can help in fully compatible with sry six it only helps reduce it the transport stack which is the important criteria there one of the criterias there lisp also it can help traffic engineering inside the remand but least has another capabilities what fight you cannot solve it can offer session serve I will mobility and other SS which is orthogonal to this I am going to talk about how this helps in Phi J architecture tomorrow in the DM over Rho please welcome there and have questions we can ask the concept is present in a fight - wha IETF 101 we have a lot of feedback thanks to us it was completely reshape the document and what comments welcome more comments and I have one question I read the last one I didn\u0027t get through all this one ah so the selection of the preferred paths is going to be separate work right how you know how you know what subset of those those N squared paths I\u0027m going to actually do preferred passport that\u0027s not good at this stuff that is XE completes it yes okay okay and this is just this really just covers the data plane and the advertisement of the of the of the ingress nodes for the preferred paths exactly okay hi kitten tear out the car Cisco so isn\u0027t this very similar to basically flooding and LSP in IDs flooding on LSP in a GPS right very similar to how our security parts were set up the only thing difference that I see is that it\u0027s flooded all across the domain so everybody gets all the LSPs and they just pick where the LSP on which they are part of and programmed their PPE our ID or label it so it\u0027s really flooding all whatever order n Square LS B\u0027s all across the domain to every router no it\u0027s not order n square I mean at the total paths yeah all are all paths so let us say highway if we have no issue with des our path please go ahead you don\u0027t have to advertise if you have an issue please advertise and reduce your stack size otherwise you don\u0027t know how to advertise okay but let\u0027s say we have a thousand such thing in a area then those thousand would be advertised by each of the ingress node and they will be flooded to all the routers correct so it\u0027s it\u0027s really an RSVP signal LSP which has to be programmed hop-by-hop or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:54",
    "text": "loosely and it\u0027s being flooded by ITP another sip you don\u0027t flood it this RSVP signals only on those hops but in this case we are flooding you let let\u0027s take this discussion of the list and Deena will be the last question comment this Dida so I have four very quick comments first one is I\u0027m overwhelmed by complexity number two your tax overhead was completely understated number three I think you found new you have to build new machinery to reinvent MPLS in a more complicated way this is just my opinion you could take it or leave it it doesn\u0027t matter but you could have solved this problem with straight source routing with not every hop-by-hop as the SID you just could have found a repair path input one entry in the source route to get around the failure and that would have taken you a long way this is not for only for a Ferrari a Ferrari is a side product of it if you want to go so is coming thank you this is for te as well yeah he said there\u0027s more to come and there\u0027s a lot more stuff in the basic stuff is already complicated so you know there\u0027s no complication looking forward to the sequel no well I think yeah obviously we could be more talking to you um okay do you want to start the discussion on this oma on this document on the list please we are ready actually fine so Dino maybe you can watch for it okay I think it\u0027s Jake okay Charlotte oh okay good morning everyone and children from Hawaii and I\u0027m going to give an introduction about the IGP extensions for the second routing based enhancement it\u0027s hard to tell which one is fullscreen in that okay so here\u0027s some background the enhancer APM framework is defined in this draft which is to meet the requirements of network slicing and other similar scenarios and this draft describes the architecture and the candidate technologies for the resource isolation and the integration piece as this drop will be presented on Wednesday the test "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:56",
    "text": "session and we have another draft which is a second routing based the enhanced VPN solution as defined in this draft race it basically to extend extend the same routing to identify the partition the natural resources and created the resource isolated virtual networks and because this time we didn\u0027t get a time slot in the spring so please read the draft and comment down the main list and now we have we need the IGP extensions for this SR pasted solution and this work belongs to this IRS our working group basically we need the mechanism to distribute the narrow slice informations to post the controller and the networking nodes so the current rate in this current draft the design is to try to reuse the existing my multi topology routing or segment outing or is some necessary extensions so we expect this mechanism will be applicable to post the SRM pairs and SR mystics okay so this diagram shows how we want to extend the Sigma routing for the resource identification and we can see on each link and note in this the topology different dedicated adjacency see it or the gnosis are used to represent the partition resource and each seed will be associated with a virtual network which can listen another slice and we can use different groups of ceased to construct the resource isolated virtual networks as shown in the right side we have three virtual networks each with different group of seeds and this it can be mapped to the data plane resources isolated from each other ok so here\u0027s the overall mechanism I mean not go through the details so basically this is a controller based mechanism we use the controller to maintain the natural States and receive the service request the controller view to the computation of the logical topology and the resources needed then we need the network nodes to allocate the resources and also the associated adjacency and no seed for the logical topology then we will need a GP for the distribution of the mapping between the seed resource and the logical topology this we information will be used but in ingress and every node to build a same route in forwarding entries for each budget apology and since we want to reuse existing mechanisms well let\u0027s take a look at the exiting existing technologies we have first the map mountains are very routing it was designed for to create a multiple logical topologies in the same infrastructure so far it has limited use cases maybe for the creating topology for ipv4 ipv6 for the different apology for the unicast or multicast and there\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:56",
    "text": "some limitation in the data plane forwarding with Maree topology is that\u0027s not a fully supported sharing of the link or IP address between the different apologies then now we have the second routing we can see how it works with naughty - Polly routing as we know the multi tier routing is already supported in the IGP extensions for the same routing NP RS so it allows - for the distribution of the topology specific adjacency seed and no seed so that we can have multiple topologies enabled with the same interface or IP address we can use different adjacent seed or no seeds as a discriminator for different typologies on this same link or note but the problem is so far we didn\u0027t have the mechanism with MTR or semi routing to support the resource isolation of the identification as I said before this this extension we need to do with same routing and we needed a GP extensions for this also so here is a proposed mechanism basically we will try to use the MIDI topology where Sigma routing was the resource identification then we can have each node or interface participate in multiple logical topologies and the resources on these nodes and links can be partitioned and allocated to each topology then we have the adjacency and no seed to represent the partitions of resources allocated for each particular topology this sees will be used to constrain the traffic to the allocated resource in the data plane then we use IGP to advertise magical mapping between the seed and resource in inch topology and with this mechanism we can support both the straight and lose paths as our forwarding which topologies constraints although way you can reuse the existing mechanism we\u0027re proposing some extensions which we see necessary the first is we need to define new sub shell we called similar out in bandwidth sub theory it is used to describe the link van waste associated with a particular adjacency seed for the use in the particular topology and the second point is we need some audit apology support for a 36 so in this document with the proposed a new until I T sub G re under the SRS it knows it shall we defining the I sighs contentions and then we notice that the newly updated as a wrist extension draft also introduced as a part of the money topology with our services so we think we can convert in this point so the next step is we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:56",
    "text": "want to students if it feedback on the proposed the IGP ice ice extensions and the next up we also want to extend this fall to the OSPF to speed up shinnok from Cisco so obviously MTR exists you can use it you can create whatever and you can do a lot of stuff with it my comment would be you know how scalable this is given that an MTR you have to Velma ties every link every properties of the link adjacency prefix everything on an empty our basis so how scalable this is I don\u0027t know how many slides is you are thinking of and from the provisional perspective it\u0027s the same thing right you have to provision it on a per link basis so I think there are maybe alternative solutions you can do the same thing or achieve the same thing in a better way yeah I think we can discuss a flying about the alternatives we think the scalability of MTR it really depends on the number of topology of slice you want right now so maybe you can see whether some optimization it\u0027s possible hi this is Dina um a C and Chris I have a general statement it\u0027s not relative to your presentation but I see a pattern happening every 5 years that I GPS especially when state I GPS are being used to move information across the network and so they you put him in LSPs and they\u0027re stored in the middle of the network that don\u0027t use it so you\u0027re using all the resources of the middle of the network where really the edges need it and the I GPS just used as some sort of transport so I mean we saw this would I be GP a long time ago and put in route reflectors and what we saw time and time again is you need a reliable multicast messaging protocol that works among the edges and you know how expensive routers in the course storing stuff has only used on the edges it\u0027s not a good architectural principle so I\u0027m making just a general statement is that you know maybe this group should look at running reliable multicast calls on the edge to have helped transport stuff so routing works better I know this is a link state routing working group but you know you only can do routing so many different ways and now with the advent of segment routing that came to the last couple years now people are saying ok let\u0027s go look at source routing techniques or Sdn controller techniques versus distributed in the network techniques which we all know and love so the problem is there\u0027s only so many ways to do these sorts of things and now people are just taking every combination of everything and it\u0027s not helpful it\u0027s just creating complexity and we\u0027re not solving any really new problems sorry to take up your time but I just thought I wanted to generalize the problem to other things that I\u0027ve seen as well actually we have more more time than I thought I was thinking back to the 9th 1130 as opposed to the 9:30 to 12:00 so I heard my apologies for hurry in the last presentation along so - you know I sort of agree with what you\u0027re saying that we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:57",
    "text": "do need so we would know the last 20 years that we needed a general-purpose data distribution protocol fall in the routing space but with real problems you do have to move on and the is is seems to be a good platform to move this on in the short term but in the long term then we do need to work on a on a better data distribution protocol yes so I think we should separate the two problems well just to clarify Dino Dino actually was saying that it\u0027s a it\u0027s a question of not wanting this far stuff in the center of the network right like a lot of times you\u0027re just trying to push information to the edge and if you\u0027re putting it LSPs it\u0027s putting its you know cost a lot up on the internal routers in your network to store that state because those are expensive because you got to change the middle of network to get this right you have no flexibility because you have to change the middle of the network to get edge functionality you know everyone has to know about those she\u0027s not there out there what I know the one example was a mapping function here there is example putting services in the network there with respect to doing traffic engineering and fast reroute you\u0027re absolutely right that\u0027s for the inside of the network engineering and slicing absolutely kind of very close friends so we do have to be able to do traffic engineering in here and so will you have to be able to steer the traffic to particular NPU instances for example and specific cues so we are dealing with a lot of detail in the middle of the network that we have to advertise the findings for this specific for this are taking application yesterday a synonym that was I mean I maybe just glancing over this I mean I read the draft and everything but I thought for this particular because you\u0027re doing resource reservation this would not be a case of only the edges needing to know I mean there are cases like you\u0027re talking about do you know what I was thinking it you would need this state yes I really do you we are gonna have to introduce more state to make this version very to this our work whatever way we go about doing it you\u0027re gonna it\u0027s all about particular resources being allocated to a particular slice so we had this presentation route number of times right and different or enough networks some now I would say we need to build more hierarchical structure it\u0027s very flat so you flood everything to everybody the capabilities and semantics of your links in reservation their property over not so if you build more hierarchical structure very have not and also attributes inside that no business doing the other not in the network you might scale my brother isn\u0027t this what ideas "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:57",
    "text": "were we\u0027re more than willing to talk to anyone who\u0027s got any ideas as to how I solve this problem in a better way okay I think the good news it here is the base network slicing would really should advanced before this correct like the SR for networks for feet and hands VPN yeah yes so so when keep you know keep a surprise this - if that\u0027s adopted you know anyway we can hide still it advised people to read this draft but I think it\u0027s contingent on the base graft being accepted in spring correct I think so okay okay since I joined didn\u0027t gather visa in time I will present on behalf of him so this is OSPF extension for the inter area topology retrieval so okay we have the background and extensions and the process here\u0027s the background of this draft so basically the advantage of the SDN controller is it has a global view of the topology and the other stays in the network and you can calculate the end-to-end path to ensure the QoS and performance requirement for applications but when the network is divided into several areas and run OSPF as IGP the detail topology information will be hidden by the ABR routers so as the in controller will only gather the summary topology information from the routers run running the P GPRS and adding locator which is located in the each area and eyesize currently have the solution defined in this RFC but there is no corresponding solution in the OSPF so this is why the extension is proposed so the proposal is the for the fixed format or SPF messages we need to reuse the rarely used field and the redefined the associated field to the short "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:58",
    "text": "backward compatibility and for the TLV format OSPF messages we can define the new secure ways to carry the prefix sauce router ID and include this subtree in the corresponding OSPF way to and versions breeze oasis then the B GPRS can recall this information use the same object regardless of the IP protocol used this is the format of the fixed format our says basically it is proposed to you reuse the TOS field and the correspond the four consequences other fields to carry this you define information so when the number of the TOS is given one special value we can use is the other field to carry this stuff router ID information this is the extension for the TLB format OSPF messages the new subji obviously are defined to carry the prefix or sprouter ID for ipv4 and ipv6 respectively this is the process of how to retrieve the inter area of topology information basically you need to collect the topology information we have P GPRS and then you need the network summary and software outer ID information and gather from this nearly proposal and you need to combine these two information to identify the links between the area different areas so that you can view the multi area topology at in the end so this is the I think I dream for the adoption of this draft and it is asking a see Linda there\u0027s some history here we already we rejected a long time ago using those toss overloading the toss and using further so so all the the non TLB based I don\u0027t think we\u0027d standardized that part if we adopted I mean I mean there was a I think it was Padma had a proposal way way back to reuse the toss toss bits for other purposes and we didn\u0027t do it then we\u0027re certainly not going to do it and and at that time we did not have a way to expand OSPF v2 or OSPF 3-3 and now we have a way so we surely wouldn\u0027t do those first those first two okay we\u0027d only do the TLB based right I mean if you\u0027re even if you were look at it you wouldn\u0027t pick just one solution to use those better yeah uh I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:00",
    "text": "get anthological Cisco so we shared comments offline with our Anna you see that at least some of the non backward compatibility changes have been addressed in this one but as AC mentioned the proposal to modify any existing format is is simply not going to work and backward but I would support the use of source router ID TLV and that\u0027s kind of equivalent to what is there in ISS so I think that\u0027s something that can be used for sure this is AC speaking as working group member again I think that you know you can look at the use case and say it\u0027s a little weak but this is this could be used for other things too we have in an is is I think I think it makes sense to add it with the tlvs okay thank you speed option at Cisco so I agree we can add sauce caller ID but I still don\u0027t see how that fixes the problem that you are trying to solve because what you advertised is prefix and you associate it the router I need a source relative is the prefix but what you have seems to try to do if I understood it from the layout your stripe you are trying to reconstruct the topology but there\u0027s no topology data it\u0027s just the prefix yeah so I don\u0027t know how are you going to use this to reconstruct any topology data from it yeah I think maybe you think it\u0027s questions go - I joined house and you can send the question sure chameleon circuit yeah yeah turning here is how to use it apology and the preface together to combine the multi area information you\u0027re just using it as a locator right and then you\u0027re gonna go talk to that box to get the info using some other records with them okay thank you Thanks I guess it is Russ I think it\u0027s Ross yeah what and this should work yeah it\u0027s but it\u0027s uh it\u0027s scrolling I don\u0027t know oh yeah oh so you can\u0027t tell which one is falling which is okay so you just have to hit it twice on that okay all right LinkedIn this is just an update on fabric this was presented about a year ago the draft something out there for a long time basically just some review you just four people ever said before both the simplest possible disturb you like they put a call no policy in their configuration we\u0027re trying to get to the point where we don\u0027t actually have configuration on the box pretty much and trying to keep out feature creep as much as we can changes since the last draft there were many minor changes based on a lot of it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "from people\u0027s input which is really appreciated by the way we have a lot of people who have given us feedback and ideas and things like that and the one major change is that the way the fabric location character is calculated there are many different algorithms possible what we found is I\u0027ve been working with Christian net net deaf on this a lot in working on an implementation is that there are a lot of ways you can do this but most of them only work in one topology one form of the clothes fine and leaf so we\u0027ve come up with a solution that I think works in all different types of spine and leaf then we can think of it basically just uses two routers manually marked as T zeros or top of racks and then you just find the location based on a simplified SPF using hop counts from that and by the way we\u0027re using namings advertisement so this is what I was talking about before the mic is trying to get to a unified signaling we\u0027re trying to rely on maimings draft for signaling rather than building our own signaling as much as possible and working with naming and less on that stuff there is two ways of optimizing flooding I\u0027m not going to go into detail again because this has been presented before and if you want to talk more about it I\u0027m glad to do so in person or on list but we\u0027re using RFC 7356 to do limited scope flooding kind of partially there\u0027s a forward and a reserved reverse optimization I think AC had a question on the list about reverse I\u0027ll talk to you about that later if you want to AC now because I think it still works but remove lots of stuff we don\u0027t need to or care about from eius eius for instance in this size of a fabric we really don\u0027t need level 1 and level 2 flooding we only need level 2 so we just actually in the implementation if taken level 2 processing or level 1 processing out as far as hellos in having multiple sets of LSD bees and stuff like that there\u0027s some optimized neighbor formation stuff about the way you build adjacencies when you bring up an adjacency rather than going ahead and exchanging LST bees you check to see where you allow your first formed adjacency to fully form and then you just do see snps to figure out what you need beyond that current state there\u0027s an implementation in free range routing I say it\u0027s in progress it\u0027s actually an acceptance test phase and skill test phase right now we\u0027re gonna do some functional test scale testing and then we intend to push that rebase it and push that into free range routing open source so there will be an open source implementation out there it\u0027s actually a compile time switch on the is is code that\u0027s already in that\u0027s already in free range routing I think we need a use case draft end or use case appendix we can talk about the requirements document that Chris was talking about earlier I think we\u0027re gonna need some yang my model modifications and we\u0027d like to see more implementations of this and since ac said we\u0027re not accepting anything as working group items in this area right now we\u0027ll just skip that request for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:02",
    "text": "moment and any questions again on list off list we\u0027re available if you want to chat about it what we\u0027re working on and where we go from here yeah I just want to clarify I wasn\u0027t requesting a our Miss document cuz I think that\u0027s a lot of times it\u0027s overkill yeah that\u0027s fine yeah I mean we\u0027re mostly working on this because we feel like it meets some operational needs that we have on our fabric it\u0027s so AC Linderman so this is just since this I don\u0027t know this almost seems like it might be a step separate track because it diverges enough now from is is I I don\u0027t know I I don\u0027t I don\u0027t know what III don\u0027t want to say experimental because it could be more serious than well a lot of experimental protocol start out as experimental and then become very serious so maybe that would be something to do and just continue I don\u0027t want to dissuade you from changing things there other comment I said don\u0027t you know you need some discussion of the checksum oh you know Christian we didn\u0027t think about check them what check them yeah okay because because you\u0027re gonna change you you know routers are gonna change the flooding scope then other than the during listen oh I shouldn\u0027t matter it\u0027s because the way the sunny trip is done it shouldn\u0027t matter okay yeah it\u0027s that it\u0027s summer 72-56 extensions which are basically I think the PTO type is not encompassed by the checksum so you can actually change it okay good okay all right so if anybody has any comments or questions bring them to list or privately to me or Christian era also I was thinking about something earlier with the flooding with all this flooding stuff it is do we have anybody in you know like the old interrupts labs at universities and stuff I mean it would be really nice if somebody was actually taking these different algorithms and and comparing them and running them through scenarios and getting maybe publishing papers yeah actually it would Russ white LinkedIn one thing I\u0027ll say about if in fabric that\u0027s interesting is this is actually modeled or uses the same algorithms or mechanisms used by the OSPF maeín a work that was done many years ago so actually this these algorithms are pretty majority deployed and running I men have over much more complicated than this one though okay we got we mon also since this last presentation anybody not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:02",
    "text": "signed the blue sheets you please do especially if you\u0027re standing up and didn\u0027t get a chair you might want to sign twice or often I couldn\u0027t Molly have for one today I\u0027m going to talk in about a flat e reduction so basically our folks are updates so during the last ITF we quite a few experts with some issues regarding to flatten topology for example if for some dingdong some interface time and in this case the plugin for G may be broken so in this case how do you provide or currently reliable flooding in the case some link bangs am not done so in these updates we provide some solutions so the second update is that in the general version we talked about a different mode or computing flooding modules for example we we focus on distribute this river mode which means that every node in the network will compute fraud energy and use their own providing for barges that is to promote we also mention the about centralized mode which means that in one network we select a leader so that a leader will compute etymology and then flag in authority into the network and then usually in the other node we receive that topology and use that party in addition to that we\u0027ll also talk about statically configured that were not in commercial so in this case a niche mode was in some way operators can configure the foggy info module and then each node in rebel just use that static convicted technology so that we mentioned this remote so in this version we provide support to like operator to select whatever mode the lack also so sometimes operator me after select select mode the may change to another mode so in this case we also provide a support to allow operators to smoothly switch from one mode to another mode so first we provide some solutions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:02",
    "text": "for reliability distributed or flooding the link state module so here we define a critical in the face so greatly in the face is a unified in the flood in topology so when this interface is done they need the flooding already where programmers meet so this interface this kind of invest is a critical interface so similarly we can extend this definition to note critical node which means that when one node in the FATA model is done and then the flat homology is broken or split so that node is a crater note so here we give an example for the flag in creepy interface for example here the stick the stick nine three nine is a critical interface because if these are in the face is done you can see that the freighting homology will be split broken so in this case I think the simple solution is that greatly innovates is done so we just a user will return to the mobile flagging which means that every node in the network just flap to every interface that\u0027s a traditional flattened so that\u0027s the simplest version in cradle university\u0027 or create remote is done so in this case we\u0027re currently the link state we all rely belief flooded so that\u0027s first simple solution so in fact this kind of solution is a simple but we use more resource we can go down further to some kind of optimized version which means that we make ritalin visit our work written all these done so we can compute by cut has some kind of backup or flooding path so those have a backup lighting path will be some way those hambaga passed back up tomorrow this is a way to go through the other node to which connect those are splitted Parvati so I suppose we get those node so the simple way is that each of those node on the pike lab staff we just flat to every interface so in this way we are currently the front of our G at the estate well reliably flooded if we will go further organized so we took them for those nodes on the back hub property we don\u0027t need to fill out every image we just flood to some of the in the base so we can see that we have was several level ways to provide "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:06",
    "text": "County and this is the floppy simple way is that as we have quickly innovative free cloth on every not just return to the role model very simple so you will have some kind of organized and then we have her son of note each each of those those were for not to ever know every week then that way we have some kind of optimized solution further we can go to even optimized solution as those part of North just rather to some of the links so secondly we provides a summer support to allow operator to select select remodel so here we provide so so first we define operation so operation is that operator can select whether we wonder flat reduction so operator can select this one very easily so over can just configure on any note in that in the network for example flat so I saw as a operator configure that one on any one load and then we can just a flood this instruction flood reduction so in some case after we have a flood reduction so maybe customer want to do back - so in just a configure wait just go back to global flooding so we provide some kind of operations you may be flooding and then go back so if we give a customer configure from a production after that the customer can select the flood mode so we will provide us provided us sever mode so we provided a customer can select centralized mode so if a customer can also select each human mode and a static mode so for you to mode so we divided the roost so for example on customer config our simulation mode and then we me that the whole night of needed to select and leader at the backup dealer and then the leader will comes up computer logic Barbie and the flood is quite entomology to Evernote envelope and then every other ever don\u0027t even matter we\u0027ve received the flag atop our key from the leader and then use these private parties so for his tribute mode is the Evernote computes Fraggle "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:07",
    "text": "property and the news is only also our operator can indicate algorithm for computing from added margins because we make if I\u0027m different now several algorithms and the user can select one of them so to currently Evernote will use the same algorithm to compute for our topology so this is a detail significantly use paint changes or central mode because the four central centralized involved we need the Select leader so in what would support this one so each node in the network be to distribute some information for example the priority for become a leader and then also after selling leaders is selected or in the process of selection so we need a device some kind of POVs to indicate that the leader or backup leader is selected also we need to have a algorithm to select a leader and a backup leaders so in summary and then we address the issues risk during the master idea and also with profiles support to allow operator to select operation mode and switch from one mode to another mode as smoothly so I see this one is a general for general flattening reduction for any apologies I think we would like to wake up comments my skin\u0027s Berg I feel like we\u0027ve have two presentations that are saying exactly the same thing you know comparison to the earlier presentation that Peter made so from a working group perspective it doesn\u0027t make any sense to me to progress to documents that are doing the same thing yeah it was striking me is very similar as well a CNO speaking as a working group member just intuitively and it\u0027s not because I used to work for Tony and Peter\u0027s my friend so I don\u0027t take that into into consideration yes yeah so but intuitively the first one is better because you\u0027re reverting to normal flooding at just the point where critical links are failing when you\u0027re going to have more load on the network so it\u0027s it\u0027s kind of you know you\u0027re saving flooding when you don\u0027t need to and then lots of changes come in the network or if you revert to normal flooding we discussed different "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:12",
    "text": "solutions so one solution is of adjusting so another solution is that we can find a bike rack back half of our apology that means that part of knows what ink will be used to guarantee when one criticalink of notice that we use those by hardening controls some of link currently we just have awakening that as another solution and then even in between some horrible loads just to the most of those of you use the five important different levels for optimization that depends we can discuss that in details well - so Theresa\u0027s point having common signalling right I mean but then what les was saying it\u0027s we don\u0027t need two things to do the same thing maybe you could be working on the algorithms we\u0027ll talk about the distribute algorithm sir I mean they really seem to be doing the same thing I think just from beginning so I think economies are not winning me the knife well imagine yeah and then my fortune is distributed right but also I talk about distributed other side calculations but my focus is the distributor and the Tony mention is a signal fire even now they told me to my first question I talk about a sweet mode and then I think us the issues raised by the expert and also generalized to cover war molds and operations right maybe I mean maybe maybe maybe there\u0027s room for working together I\u0027m not sure the same problem then maybe combined together I think yeah let\u0027s do that before we do another example computation again okay anything else oh yeah I mean I just struck me again this is a naive accommodate gonna reread this draft but isn\u0027t static topology is that mesh groups isn\u0027t static configuration of top up fighting topology as much groups it\u0027s the starting company that uses first thing they already have it right it\u0027s mesh groups we doesn\u0027t mentioned that one user can kavika or no these are mini virgin at them we do need a computer with a user this one here is house as an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:07:13",
    "text": "example for girls okay so it looks like we\u0027re wrapping a little early yes any other comments thanks everybody [Music] [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:10:30",
    "text": "[Music] [Applause] "
  }
]