[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "meet echo so let me actually do a presentation of the chair slides from the data tracker then uh can everyone hear me by the way i didn't actually do the audio test before i can hear you excellent uh my co-chair gen will not be joining me uh today for this because the uh the timing here was um designed to be decent for people from um uh the east coast you know just decent for people from the east coast into or the west coast of the us into europe uh and she's in sydney uh so the time zones are uh kind of brutal i'll wait another minute or so for people to come in while i pull the slides off the data tracker and uh karine are you uh prepared to present um from your machine uh usually there's like a pre-loaded slides thing but those somehow did not get pre-loaded i can present from my screen yes okay good uh let me pull these up and then yes window this one share so hello everyone again good morning good afternoon welcome to the uh pathway networking research group uh i am brian drammel one of your two co-chairs as i said jen will not make it today due to fun with time zones this is a meeting of an irtf research group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "um and therefore is subject to the irtf notewell the rtf follows the ietf intellectual property right disclosure rules um if you are not familiar with them uh please do review them uh before uh saying anything at the microphone or making another contribution to this meeting all of uh the contributions to this meeting are subject to uh the rules set out in 5743 5378 8179 etc on note also well that the ietf code of contact conduct and anti-harassment procedures apply to the irtf and therefore to this meeting given that um here is our agenda today we basically have um four points on the agenda and one presentation i expect today to be mainly a q a slash discussion meeting um there uh will be a um uh we'll start off with an overview of scion which is also um drawn from uh draft to copter panerji scion overview um and then we're going to have a bit of q a in general discussion um sort of like especially focused on cyan and the questions raised in rfc 9217 and then a bit of discussion about next steps so i've like very liberally um uh uh put time in the agenda for those two like 35 30 minutes but like basically we're hoping that therapy discussion will go on and then we'll naturally follow the next steps part of that um why are we here what is the purpose of this meeting uh so there was a scion side meeting at ietf 113 in vienna so this presented zion uh it's an internet architecture that addresses many of the research questions that are raised in the research group so we thought it would actually be a pretty good um opportunity uh for the proponents uh from that site meeting to come and have a discussion about um sign as a whole as a research group topic and then we want to talk a little bit so that second part of the agenda is how the research group might be a conduit toward bringing scion or parts of into"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "the ietf or what parts of that work might it make um sense to do within the research group right like so there's a bunch of questions and next steps that we'll bring up on the next slide but first uh we are going to hear from corey and the scion team so let's see if you could put yourself back in the queue to um pass slides control all the slots for requested media are already taken grant screen here we go uh hold on do i have to stop sharing the screen first let me stop screen share and then i can grant screen yes so i have to let's see so you should grant a screen share and then you can select the window that you want to that you want to show yeah i think um do you see something uh i see you and i see me yeah so maybe can you oh wait i have to ask it again because i i think i clicked something wrong yeah okay there we go grant screen nope that didn't work tonight um uh your browser might not have permission to send information from your screen okay no worries uh you can just tell me to do next screen next or next slide next slide next slide oh okay i can do that then so okay that's okay let's do that yes loading uh should probably be able to share the pre-shared the pre-uploaded slides as well i uploaded the slides but i'm not showing any pre-shared slides in there are no slides available if you go into settings you can probably"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "tell it to convert them in top right corner there is a little triangle settings manage slides okay import this deck import i'm sorry i thought that that was already done okay now you can or here well just to save some time i will share pre-loaded slides and you can just let me know when i'm supposed to click something you can always hand over the controls to her if you want oh then i can handle yes um just click on coin passalize control ooh neat okay okay thank you very much carsten okay thank you so now i just have to click i see it already i can yes okay thank you okay hello everybody welcome to this meeting and brian thank you for organizing this meeting and also inviting us to the meeting this meeting serves for us to discuss uh how to proceed also a little bit with um sign and the standardization process of it as input for this meeting we have already submitted internet draft informational internet draft for which i sent you or at least the penalty mailing list i send a link and yes i hope of course that you have read the draft so now i go to the next uh slide with this presentation we first want to provide some background to cyan uh the draft and also to the authors of the draft and for those people who didn't find the time to read our informational internet drafts we will briefly describe what sign is about then we uh i want to tell you shortly why we think at this time uh the timing drive to bring science to the ietf and to maybe start this standardization"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "process and then of course we would like to show you what we think for us are the next steps but of course this in the end depends on your feedback and comments during this meeting on the draft on sign in general and also on sign in the context of the penalty and ietf so i first shortly want to introduce the authors of the the informational internet draft we submitted first me i'm a technical writing who is in charge of the writing the standardization documents on sign i'm corinne carter i'm from holland and then the second author is nicola rustignoli he is in charge of um the science technical outreach efforts and also supports the science certification and standardization processes we both have a master's of technical university and several years of experience in for working for i.t companies and this third person is adrian perk he's a professor of computer science at the eth zurich and he has been developed or he's in zion over the last 12 years we are all the three of us are affiliated with the sign association and design association is currently in the process of being founded or launched this is a non-profit organization bridging the gap between academia and industry another purpose is to promote the global sign adoption and also to maintain and expand the sign open sort code base and sign itself is a inter-domain path aware next generation architecture it stands for the word science stands"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "for scalability control and isolation on next generation networks it offers securability and availability by design and it provides root control failure isolation multipath rousing between hosts and trusts it offers trust information for end-to-end communication the whole science project started back in 2009 at the in the group of adrian perrick in the context of studying security of inter-domain routing protocols and in the meantime assign is really already in production used by seven service internet service providers and five more service providers have trial deployments there are multiple independent implementations possible with cyan both open source and closed source and also not not only possible but also in use and the project involves involves multiple components and stakeholders as brian already said the head discussions sign was discussed at the last ietf in march and as a consequence of this we have nowadays meeting and also this informational draft which here you find once more the link to it and it is also on the bottom of this presentation just what what we want to intend with this informational internet draft is offering an introduction into sign and the motivation to develop cyan and it is really only providing a very high level description of sign its architectural components we want to we want it to serve as some kind of reference document that is that we do not have to explain sign all the time to people that really can refer to this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "document and it should pave the way for further ietf work but what it is really not meant it is as input for really very in-depth technical discussions about the components and the protocol specification at this moment so at this moment this draft only hopes to how do you say it to help you explain what sign is about and how it works on a high level and all these technical discussions in-depth technical discussions will come with further internet drafts we would like to write about authentication and pki infrastructure how the control page works and routing about sign data plane also the security considerations and implications and as well as we also want to provide a more much more detailed analysis then for all the people who have didn't have the time to read the draft i tried to explain sign in a nutshell as i already told you it is an inter-domain paths based or password network architecture it is sign organizes autonomous systems into so-called isolation domains there you can see them on the picture here these these are all isolation domains its isolation domain consists of a core which has a couple of two three autonomous systems core autonomous systems and then the rest of the isolation domain consists of like member autonomous systems and each isolation domain can define its own roots of trust which is defined in in the so-called trust root configuration which you you see here in the in this graphic and the purpose of this setup is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "it will allow trust heterogeneity because each isd can independently define its own roots of trust and it also provides transparent trust relationships furthermore it is possible this setup makes it possible to isolate routing routing failures and misconfigurations and it also improves scalability because it separates routing in inter isolation domain routing and intra isolation remain routing then scion design control plane is in charge of the routing itself it constructs it this is where the construction and the dissemination of path segments happens and the control pin has its own pki for authentication then there's also a sign data plane and this is in charge of the packet forwarding so in the data plane the path segments are combined into paths and the packets contain this pass information the routers then forward packets based on this pass information and design routers are a simple simple routers which operate statelessly if you have questions please save them for after the presentation because we have this discussion time to discuss anyway then i shortly also want to show you what a scion autonomous system in itself looks like so this this is an example of a sine autonomous system and then the sign routers are at the borders of such a autonomous system and their function is to pair with other sign-enabled networks and to collect customer accesses and they they have to be able to communicate and to connect and link with on with other sign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "based networks or autonomous systems but inside such an autonomous system there is no need to change the internal network infrastructure it can it can be it can just be used as usual as it is and as there are as i already said there are already a lot of deployments working with scion first service providers in switzerland europe and also in asia and and this number is growing then there's also an internet exchange points physics which offers sign pairing the customers using sign are can be found off can be our financial institutions can be found in education government healthcare so this shows that is also really of use for uh institutions in different areas or or companies then we have a research network which uses science to connect the swiss institutions of the eth domain it's called science and then there is the scion lab research touchpad where we test for instance future features before we they are really getting into use so now i come to the question why we think that uh the time is ripe to uh to take sign to the ietf and to standardize to start maybe to kick off the standardization process and this is first because there are more and more science deployments and implementations and this also increases the need for to have standards to have a standardized implementation deployments it is also demanded by early adopters"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "because they want to have a standardized product they don't want to have something which is going to change again and again and of course standardization will facilitate acceptance of science and it also will prevent uh from talking past one another so i mean it will um it will prevent from that two parties speak of sign but do mean something else and it will ensure interoperability then another point is that they also would like to contribute to the discussion on pathway networking because this is of course a very important discussion and because sign is already in use and is deployed and we think we can really contribute our experiences to this discussion then we also there is a rfc 5218 which describes what it needs to be for a protocol to be successful and it seems that we already fulfill these requirements uh like sign uh does not have to be um used by the entire internet to you know to be to work it's uh there is it supports incremental deployability then we know from the service providers and also the the users who already use sign that the benefits of deployments outweigh the costs then there are multiple portable implementations possible both open and close source and one important point is also because sign is already in use and deployed we can show that it's not only a nice theory but it really also works in practice and the other thing which i already shortly men mentioned it that we really hope that we can provide answers to questions raised in this rfc 9217 current open questions in pathware networking and of course we cannot"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "answer all the questions yet but we think we can really our experiences with scion in deployments uh will uh we will will be of great help to answer these questions and we think we can already give some answers regarding uh the question how do endpoints get access to trustworthy past properties how can they select trustworthy paths how can you effectively operate a pass-aware network in a pass-over internet work and how can you manage the transition from current the current pot oblivious uh networking to past aware networking uh yes and we also have of course a goal with this without the internet the informational internet draft and also with with being part of this meeting uh we hope that the graft in itself gets adopted by the energy group and after of course implementing your feedback we maybe in the end would like to to get it published as an informational rfc because then we can really re refer to it like i already said it is our intention to to use it as a referential document and then this we also hope that we can be this kick off further ietf work and and maybe start a possible standardization process and what we think can be next steps from our point of view is then of course first address the comments and the feedback we get in this meeting and then based on that uh publish a new version of the internet draft before the next ietf it will be in july in philadelphia and then based on on how much feedback we get and how thorough it is uh we maybe"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "we after that might start the process of publishing the internet draft as an rfc but we don't know of course when how when this moment will be there then parallel to this we could already maybe start writing more technical internet where we really talk about the protocols and the technical components and how how it works how sign works in depth and then also we hope that the also today already get an idea on how we can how our way to go will be with at the ietf so that that is already with this i already come to the end of my presentation and i want to thank you for your attention brian thank you very much um so the queue is open for questions shall i stop the slideshare uh yeah you can go ahead well i mean you might want to keep it up if there's anything in the slides you want to refer to for okay okay go hi there uh thank you for coming and uh and uh talking to us about this um i had uh two questions one was you you mentioned that the you know you mentioned that you have you all have looked at the um you all have looked at the successful protocols uh rc um i don't know if you all have looked at a uh rfc that uh pan-rg has produced came out relatively recently called uh it's uh rc-9049 uh and it's talking about obstacles to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "deployment and this is this this is the uh the sad tale of woe uh that the ietf has had with uh path aware protocols um and basically it's kind of a list of what not to do uh we've done a couple of of exercises where we've looked at uh other protocols uh just you know to see well you know are we know where we know where at least some of the land mines are or is this protocol stepping on any of them uh so that uh going through that uh might be a useful thing to do uh as well uh you know definitely uh look at you know answering research questions also uh but uh i think i think both of those are are good exercises to do definitely yeah yeah we we actually did have a look at this rfc and it's also mentioned in the in the internet draft i just uh didn't uh include it in the slides i should have done that maybe but uh yes we we be we know about this rfc yes yeah yeah yeah cool and and like i said just making sure that um everybody kind of has a common state uh understanding of um how you know if you if you use that rc as a filter uh if you know if if there are any things that get stuck in the filter as you're filtering it would be good to know too thank you thank you eq remains open maybe briefly also to follow up on what spencer said um i'm not sure right right um yeah absolutely the um and we looked at the draft and spencer's rfc the best area of roads not taken with great interest and we definitely"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "um and unfortunately i think we do tick the boxes and are able to avoid the pitfalls that are pointed out and so that has been a very interesting and very useful document actually so actually i have i have a follow-up question uh on that one uh to put you on the spot a little bit adrian so from um like 1949 and 9217 uh as well as sort of what makes us official protocol from these three rfcs which were basically written to sort of like give guidance in this space from you know operational wisdom that we've we've built for you know running the actual internet is there anything that might feed back into that into sort of like future iterations of of scion development or um sort of like future things that you would do in terms of like um uh further deployment of scion uh beyond it's its current deployment like you're looking for ways to supplement the document to say what is needed to be successful right or if there's anything that like basically came out of spencer's document for example that's like okay hey we hadn't thought about that we do need to answer that question um you don't have to answer that question right now on video but but maybe in the next rev of the id um that would be a good thing to a good thing to address right yeah when i looked at it it was um it was a while ago and it's i was more relieved that the things most of the landmines we magically were able to to to avoid uh without stepping into them it's not magic you spent a lot of time thinking about it right like maybe as a combination of luck and also having observed others other protocols and systems"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "at the microphone um eric asked if there was a cyan interop or a developer table at the hackathon at 113. uh so in vienna uh was there any scion participation at the hackathon there no not yet um perhaps consider changing that for 114 right so one of the requirements was that there is an active draft and so now that we have that we can actually now be at the hackathon we looked at this in the past and this was one of the requirements so that's a great great input yeah so i think now like it's you know it's been a while since we've all been on airplanes i think now the hackathon runs the week before um philadelphia do you have a look at the at the like the logistics should be up um you know make sure you show up on time uh obviously because it used to be just the weekend before but then we found it was actually kind of useful to run it for longer i believe and i'm not sure the uh um i'm not sure how we're going to do that in philadelphia so yes nicola will be there the weekend against miriam okay it's gonna nickelodeo is something you can set up and [Music] cool that's a good point thank you i did have a question for you and uh didn't as well how do you see applications using this do you expect the applications to kind of natively who control this architecture are you looking for like proxies and gateways to uh like you know stitch them together because i think that's the hardest part and that has been like you know for this multi-homing and all these like brazilians proposals is the in-house support so what are your thoughts on that right um so right now all the customers actively using it they use a translation system a gateway and that converts ip traffic into cyan traffic and the opposite happens at the other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "end but in research we do have a number of different ways to have applications directly as cyan of course we have libraries that can support zion we're also looking at pure application level support so that the whole stack can be directly bundled with the application and we have an auto discovery system that enables the system to detect if the local isp offers and support and then essentially turn on this this stack and allow the application to directly use it an interesting aspect also is to extend the happy eyeballs approach i see tommy is also online who has been driving this and essentially adding sign is a third is a third option besides ipv4 and ipv6 and then yet another thing that we've looked at is also in the context of taps where brian and also tommy have been very active in that's in that space to and there's also has been are actually things insights that we had in cyan that already flowed into taps as well um to make use of the large number of potential paths that one could use and i know that in taps we had a um a presentation from a master student who had done a taps a scion sort of taps bridge implementation and sort of reported back to the working group on on you know reflections on taps there i don't know if that you know i i know how a lot of master student code you know makes it into reality and how a lot of it doesn't so i don't know if that's still um maintained uh but we did we did find that useful in the taps working group as well hey when was this brian was it done already or something this was done a while ago this was like about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "three years ago um so at least i know that that the the um the master student who did that has been working with me at google for the past three years so it was before that right okay excellent thanks brian i'll contact you all yeah dig through the dig through the minute nicola you have a question about scion now i want to follow up on on suresh question um at the moment in the draft we do not really describe too much in detail all those transition mechanisms that are a little bit more experimental and a little bit more on the research side so i was wondering if for a next iteration of the draft it would be a a good idea to extend on that and i'm talking about for example those mechanisms that adrian uh mentioned like um for example um uh perhaps uh extending um happy eyeballs all the auto discovery mechanisms for scion and hosts but besides that we also have other transitions mechanisms that are more transparent to end users and they are also very briefly mentioned in the draft at the moment we just didn't want to make it too to have it but there's there's a lot of things going on uh let's say in research i was just wondering how much uh it would be helpful to add more on that in the draft in this draft i think like this is my opinion as an individual not as the chair and then i'll and then i'll say something as the chair as an individual i think the overview should probably stay an overview and but the you know the other ways that you're looking at at doing transition for a protocol transition like this should be their own documents now i'll put my chair hat on and say as a you know member of the irst and the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "chair of a research group when i hear someone talking about experimental transition methods to get a new protocol deployed my ears pick up and i'm like oh this is exactly the type of thing that we should be talking about in pan rg so i think that you know a deep exploration of those would make excellent um sort of document within the research group um uh as well as sort of like the overview of saying here's the framework for things but i think that like digging into how you would actually run a transition like this is um uh is like you know bread and butter for uh for for pan energy sounds good thank you thanks nicholas so maria isn't you yes so i mean talking about documents um and so i looked i didn't read it fully but i looked at the document and it's a very well written document but it's not the kind of thing that i need in an internet drive what i really need in the internet draft is protocol bits which are currently not there and especially what makes this discussion very hard is that like you present this as a whole system um and we try usually to look at building blocks and what i see here is that you at least have three different parts here which all need to work together which one one is the kind of the trust system the other one is the routing protocol and the third one is a data plane and i'm wondering how much it would be possible to separate those things and also to rely maybe on existing protocols for parts of that like why is the current key system not suitable for saying or would there be a way to take the q and key system or trust system and make it suitable to science"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "rather than developing an entirely owned system right and the same i think is true for the data plane there is a lot of work in the ietf um in the area of segment routing which is like from a protocol point of view probably provides the same thing as you need it provides you uh um hops for um routing information so why is it not possible to take this existing protocols or adapt the existing protocols and integrate them into your system right so i think corinne wanted to maybe answer about why we didn't have more protocol aspects we wanted to the idea wasn't it would be good to discuss here to keep the first draft short and as an overview and then add additional pieces with the protocol details right i think i think i think you like i don't want to be mean but i think you failed and keeping it short it's a rather long draft an itf but anyway okay yeah that's the usual problem but there is there is a lot to cover a lot of ground to cover and if you think there should be more of a hierarchy keeping even shorter and um so the point is i'm i think it's a very well written document right and it provides a lot of useful information and also answers to some of the questions i have it's just like this is nothing that we would standardize this would never be an rc at the end so the question stays what what's the parts that we need to standardize right i think it was also not the intention to that to that it will be a standard you know it's really like uh no this is fine i'm not i'm not criticizing the staff not every draft has to be standard but this is the question i we need to answer right at the end we need to understand what the parts that need standardization how they look like in order to figure out where to put it and how to help you yeah i think that's also really also the question we try to answer in this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "meeting i guess yeah i think let's actually come back to that question at the next steps part um thank you thank you for bringing that up but like um yes missing i'm happy to come back to that but i'm also missing is really like why um first of all do you need everything together or is there an option to like standardize only parts of it for the start and also why do you need a new protocol rather than adopting existing protocols in some space or is there actually an option for like an intermediate step to use existing protocols right so one thing you mentioned is also segment routing why don't we use that as the data plane maybe we can quickly cover it now and then later we can come back if needed and segment routing we've definitely looked at that since it's also there's already a fair amount of implementation of it in in existing products and so it's very attractive uh way to to do the data plane but in in sign there's additional security mechanisms that protect the fields in the data plane and these cryptographic um identifiers are are not present in segment routing and also the i think it can play very well together uh more to add segment routing headers to also obtain intra-domain guarantees whereas zion mostly provides the inter domain guarantees the links between the different autonomous systems so combining the two densan has the the cryptographic aspects to protect the policies of of the paths uh the entities that created the paths uh would then play nicely together with the more trustworthy environment of intradomain that is then um not cryptographically protected i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "think the two act i mean i think what you should do is rather than saying um and i mean i'm not an expert in segment routing and there are many opinions in that space and so on so i'm not sure if i give you the best advice but i think what you should do is rather than looking at segment routing or any other itf protocol and say this doesn't fit our needs it's rather figuring out how you can adopt a product or how you can add something to the protocol in order to make it fit your needs or how um how can you reuse existing building blocks because that will be much easier path forward in the ietf absolutely yeah that was definitely consideration um but but in the end it's it's really the also the efficiency right of having only 12 bytes per yes that's being traversed um what was an important consideration um because otherwise if you have a number of asses and you're having too many bytes um for per es your your header will become too large as well and so that you know for for inter domain you have to be very very careful not to have things blow up in your face especially when you use crypto and so you want to make sure things are very compact yeah i mean i'm um when i started as a as an academic researcher that's kind of my first lesson learned that not always the best and optimized solution is the thing that will get standardized because there are a lot of considerations about um the ability for people to understand your system is for example easier if your changes are smaller right and the chance to get this deployed or implemented correctly are also higher so there's like a lot of more considerations and at the end not always the optimal solution whatever you would um see in your research as the best solution is the one that gets standardized for various reasons um so i don't think that should be the aim the aim should be to get something standardized that is accepted deployable and understood by the community"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "that's definitely understood right thank you uh nikola did you want to follow up on this point or um yeah i've got two questions from the from the chat that i could bring yeah i have a quick follow-up on this point uh since we all did not touch pki uh i mean one of the thing one of the things that makes cyan also different from uh let's say segment routing is that scion has its its own trust model right with all these isolation domains and so on so so the design is really based um on the assumption that you're trying to connect entities that do not necessarily trust each other and um and that i think that is one of the things that makes it very different from segment routing where you basically trust everyone in your uh in your intra intra ias domain and for example looking at the rfc 1949 the one about obstacles to deployment you do see that a lot of inter-domain extensions or protocols actually failed exactly because of this this gap in the trust model when you have let's say control messages that are not authenticated or um whenever you have entities that you do not trust then it becomes a lot more difficult to implement mechanisms like segment browsing and this is why scion is a bit more uh a bit more different than existing protocols and that is because it tries to address those um many of those concerns with the trust model but of course that comes at um at the compromise in the sense that some things for example data plane is a bit of its own because of what adrian mentioned so having uh cryptography and so on i hope that that adds up just a bit more input on your question miriam i'm done calling on this point hi yeah i mean just to follow up on on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "this point i think it's easy to get stuck in the specifics of particular proposals and um i i suspect myria's point wasn't so much about segment routing and more about the the you know that there's a there's a very big system um being proposed here you know there's a lot of pieces to say on and um i think we're trying to see how how it can be brought in maybe how the pieces can be separated and understand which ones are um you're ready for standardization and what's the right approach to standardizing that and which piece is as you know what places there are still open research questions so i think rather than focusing on specific topics it's it's how should we approach um bringing this work in to some combination of you know the the penalty in irtf or or potentially some itf groups so i think we're already kind of going into the next steps discussion but i did have two questions from the um from the chat that i wanted to pose before we before we continue this um so i will put myself in queue before spencer um eric klein asks um uh is it easy for developers and tinkerers to play with it natively um you know um parentheses i went looking for an ether type on the ayanna page and i'm assuming that that trail's off into i i didn't find one uh so how easy is it to get started like you know i'm a hobbyist i have a you know um some computers and some switches and you know some stuff in the cloud um how easy is it to get started playing around with scion so i'll i'll take this one uh for playing around i think the best way is to use scion lab which is our research and development network i think there was a link in into the slide at"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "the website scionlab.org and you can register and then you can uh from the website you can already download all the sign configuration to attach your own device where you then get all the software packages to run scion natively so that means that you can really choose the paths and so on so i think that's the easiest way there is no ether type because especially in this scenario basically uh this this runs us on top of uh of ip that's just because of in order to make it easier but having an ether type could be potentially one of the open questions for a later point in time that is not a question for this room but yes yes exactly yeah and then uh ralph uh kyle's asked basically a follow-up question to that oh what is the status of direct kernel driver support the only code i've found seems to be oriented toward toward tunneling so cyan in the colonel uh i i i'm not aware i'm not sure if adrian you're aware of something but i don't think we are at that level yet okay now i will remove myself from the queue and allow spencer to ask a question we moving to the next part of the conversation yet let me let me stall on that and say are there any other people that have sort of like questions about you know what scion is or you know what how um or shall we go ahead and say that we have finished the q a and go into the next steps discussion so i will leave the queue open for 20 seconds on that and see if anybody is going to rush to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "the queue or put something in the chat and then we can then we can flip the bit and i will take over the slides actually hold on me do this and move us on to the next steps discussion um so uh i did a little bit of brainstorming before this and figured out you know what but i think the next steps are obviously there's um you know the question that's being asked in the uh uh the presentation do we want to adopt this overview as a research group draft i think i've heard one very good idea for a research group draft looking at sort of like the experimentation for um different uh transition mechanisms right like we talked about sort of like the user space udp uh data plane encapsulation that would allow you to just compile the scion stack directly into an application that sounds super useful um you know tunneling approaches um you know ways to transition from tunneling to native i think there's been um a lot of work done by the scion folks in this area that would be you know super useful to have in the research group just to sort of generalize that knowledge if nothing else um that could lead to my second point larger scale experiments with scion sort of within the auspices the research group it's like there's the scion lab is there some sort of like cooperation or venue arrangement with the research group where we could sort of like foster large-scale experimentation i don't know um is there uh you know a way that this work could be a conduit for parts of scion and i think that you know muria raised a really good question you know parts you know let's put parts in bold and italic here uh of scion into appropriate ietf"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "working groups but like i'm just the chair uh i'm just here to use meet echo poorly um so if uh you have ideas here for next steps please enter the queue but you'll have to go after spencer spencer i have a few things and please cut me off if i have more than a few things we've got like we've got uh 70 minutes at this point please don't use it all but um i think no you know if you see if you see people dropping out of the meat echo you know uh flagged me down also i'm watching the numbers and and someone should um so uh first thing we were talking about uh different docs there was a suggestion that mario was making if i understood it correctly i wanted to uh agree with that suggestion for several reasons i'd like to talk about a couple of the reasons um so one of the things that uh is worth thinking about is what's the level of maturity uh of the different pieces that make up scion uh and the question that uh you know is basically how you know how much has this been deployed how much has this been uh how much experience do we have with it how stable has it been where it doesn't have to be all the same level of maturity to move forward right so the question you're really asking is what's research and what's engineering what's research that we don't actually know how to do yet uh or do well or do an internet scale yet uh in what's engineering um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "the there have been a number of protocols that have come through the irtf and the one i'm thinking of specifically is hip where there was a hip research group and a hip working group at the same time where the research group takes the hard parts uh which at the time for them that was basically finding other endpoints that are speaking hip uh because the uh the hits are not hierarchical so you know like finding the other people uh that was harder but doing the da you know basically doing the protocol itself was engineering so we've even had two uh a research group and a working group that were working on the same product different parts aspects of the same protocol and that was a lot about maturity and things like that if we're talking about um moving forward at least some stuff moving forward into the ietf okay that that's one of the things i understood that was on the table there a question i asked a lot of people um over a bunch of years who had proposals like scion is to ask people to say what are the protocols that you're reusing what protocols are you extending and what protocols are you inventing and that that turned out to be a kind of important question uh for a lot of proposals and i think this is uh back again to myria's thing basically saying"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "uh you know if you say well we're not going to reuse uh segment routing at least that you know that's the going in position right now so explaining why scion doesn't reuse the existing protocols would could be really important for the other protocols but i think it will also be important for your protocol because you'll almost certainly be asked that repeatedly so having a good answer that that you know all the authors agree on would be you know and it was written down someplace would be great um the um yeah yeah uh one other thing just to mention this um so there's a rfc 7418 that it's kind of that's kind of this is not what it started out to be but it kind of turns out to be a good place to explain the difference between what's going into the ietf and what's going into the irtf uh and my understanding is that uh collins still largely agrees with uh of course in that rfc about that you know the what that relationship might look like so and that actually feeds into my final point which is um please don't try to do all of this your you know all the moving forward yourself and figuring out yourself uh ask for feedback and pan rg is a really pretty good place for people to ask for feedback uh about how things move forward it has a lot of people with a lot of experience and i'm seeing at least two current isg area directors in the uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "meet echo now so you know this is actually a good safe place to have those discussions before you get to submitting a bar bob off request and writing everything down for what will kind of tend to be uh an up down vote um oh i did have one more which is related that fate sharing and ietf proposals so basically you know the you know doing what miria was saying where you say well there's three or four different parts of this um if you put them in as the scion buff request they're all going to either move forward or not so um saying you know if i have these different parts how many of them are separable uh they've they may not be able to be separable and you know they would have to go forward together any two of them would have to move forward together but that might not be true so you might be able to move some stuff forward if it's useful on its own uh without you know without waiting for the hardest parts to move forward and that was the last thing i was going to say cool thank you very much yeah i i apologize if you can hear me furiously typing there but i'm trying to get all of this feedback to put into the minute so that we can uh pass it on to the scion folks but i see adrian is on mike um so i just would like to say something to that please go ahead and they both muted themselves i just wanted to i just wanted to thank thank uh spencer for his feedback yeah absolutely it's really great feedback yeah i've been furiously typing that down i will i will send it to spencer to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "make sure that i didn't miss anything uh before we post the minutes there yeah and regarding that feedback we were indeed thinking about having a more in detail a gap analysis draft uh really trying to look at what is existing and and what scion can add and why the existing cannot be reused so i'm i'm thinking loudly that this might be a um a way to to clarify this it's just that in within this draft we initially started like thinking to add a bit more about that but it just it is just too much so could that be a a way to make this a bit more clear if we focus on a yeah gap analysis draft and looking at what is existing i i think we'd probably have to read the gap analysis draft to give a clear yes no but like he seems like of course yeah there's another thing that i've heard said i think miriam said it first uh here um that i want to try and rephrase um uh sort of like pick out also from miriam what very said what spencer said is um there's this question of fate sharing and separability and i think it's a really good exercise possibly in that gap analysis draft to say okay what happens if we standardize just the pki and we use the current pki or the sign on pki with the current internet uh ipv6 protocol stack um segment routing maybe in a couple of places uh and bgp right it's like we just changed the pki and what if we say okay we have the current internet pki the current rpki um the current dns security model and uh the current sort of ipv4 ipv6 dual stack but we add the path discovery and the beaconing and we say okay well you know we'll cheat and we'll be able to add the security of the path discovery so you basically get you know better than bgp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "stack but none of the other stuff changes what does that look like or then you say and i think this is the one that makes the least sense but it might be worth doing for completeness what happens if we standardize the scion data plane but with bgpas numbers and the current pki i don't think that one makes a lot of sense on its own but um uh and that actually might be input to a discussion about which of these things do you standardize first right i mean um which of these things and i don't have a real good feeling about of the pki and the um uh and the path discovery and path exposure and sort of that the new routing paradigm i don't have a really good feeling of which of those is most indispensable on its own and i i think a gap analysis that also explored these things separably would be super interesting and super useful right because i want to underscore again with my chair hat on here right like so cyan is an example of trying to do a wholesale replacement of a running architecture which um there was ncp to tcp ip in you know 1980 whatever and you could you know say that maybe that was that level of wholesale architecture change but i don't think it's even that big we've never done this before this is an example of trying to do that there are generalizable insights that can come out of trying to do this as well and i i think those are you know 100 percent energy material um with that tommy okay is this working it is working woohoo um yeah so i mean obviously thanks for bringing this to the rtf and writing up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "the id i'm largely agreeing with spencer and brian and miriah on what they've said um i just wanted to chime in with a suggestion maybe for how we could approach the analysis work based on what i've been hearing here um you know so as we've mentioned as i think the draft does refer to we have all of these cases where the path of where networking didn't work um and that's very useful and you know what i'm hearing from you guys and from adrian and i believe it you know like this is a model that is path aware we actually have some deployment experience in some real networks that are using this and we think yeah this well this one actually works um and so it's like oh we actually have a positive example now um so i think at the very least you know learning from this example of what makes this work and the other ones didn't work is a useful thing to do um and you know personally i'd like to more figure out how can we evolve the existing protocols as much as possible and not just have like here's a divergent stack that you need to switch over to something that's not the normal internet to get pathway networking um but you know i think at this point i i don't know if we can answer the question of you know can we do that correctly and so you know digging in to answer that question would be useful um and essentially look at all of the different properties and figure out you know what makes what what do you think makes scion different from the previous attempts to do pathway or networking that didn't work um and start maybe with those properties as like these are the kind of the fundamental properties that are going to make this work and then once we have those properties figure out you know okay here's this property can we add that or find it in an existing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "internet protocol we're gonna can we evolve it or do we actually have the analysis to say that ah this particular piece of the existing internet protocol cannot do that um and cannot be easily evolved and so we do need to switch that piece out for something but you know start with the principles that we think will make you succeed rather than just just pointing out oh here's the gap analysis of the internet like and poking holes at that because i think we see that and sometimes that doesn't go as well but starting from this is what we think is making this successful where are those properties shared in existing protocols where can they be added or where do they need to be replaced i think that would help a lot of us understand what pieces we need to take what pieces we don't um and maybe will make it easier for people to come into the conversation without being scared by a big new architecture that is great so definitely we can take it in consideration for this additional gap analysis all right those are great points we took note so definitely brian are you on mute or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "okay yeah sorry i was like furiously typing notes and muted myself and then completely forgot so um myria uh brought a point to uh the chat that i actually wanted to raise up to the um like to the room uh you know this time with a microphone that is on um documenting deployments uh eg with gateways and experiences and challenge with that is going to be more interesting than just documenting the architecture and i i i would underscore that i think that like um we have uh seen a lot within panergy we've seen a lot of proposals some complete some incomplete about parts of the path awareness puzzle um what scion has that none of those other ones have is like actual deployment experience um and i think that all of us can learn uh from that deployment experience so um something that's really kind of an implementation report of like you know you know we can read the stuff in the papers uh uh of what worked um i'd be more interested in the stuff that's not publishable elsewhere right like so it's very very very difficult to publish negative results what did scion try as part of trying to get you know this uh uh experimental internet architecture to the point of deployment that didn't work um that i think would also be an interesting input to the research group and i was largely talking too well somebody joined you actually go ahead can i ask my question yes please do yeah so like this this extended analysis and also uh describing uh what what works or or what did not work or what did did sign do different what kind of document should that be then uh like like an informational internet drift or or or that would be like an interventional internet draft to the research group yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "that would be an informational internet draft of the research group basically just sort of like a an implementation report here are things that we tried here are like the paths that we found were not useful and then it would be super interesting within the rg to compare those to sort of like spencer's draft are there any gaps that we missed in spencer's analysis of things that happened in the ietf that you know happened in the scion story because of you know because scion is different right okay good thanks it sounds like we're giving you a whole bunch of internet traps to write um but let's see if there's yes so colin you're next uh yeah so i think this is this is a really interesting discussion uh and we we're doing the the thing which uh research groups do a lot which is diving into the you know where the interesting research areas are and uh i think that you know that's cool right i mean that's what we want from my point of view of a research group is to figure out what's the open research questions here um i mean obviously there's the bigger question of scion as a system and and how we approach you know bringing the whole thing in uh and if we should bring the whole thing in uh and um you know i i think um you know there's obviously a bunch of interest in it um there's a clearly a bunch of good ideas in scion there's clearly a bunch of good deployment experience in it um and i think that's something which bits of this you know that this group has been missing and you in in places um i think so circling back to some of the earlier points though scion is is a system and it's a large system um and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "the itf doesn't isn't really good at systems with a capital s it's good at components and pieces um and um i think so coming back to some of that earlier discussion we should be thinking about which yes which big bits we can bring into the irtf and what makes sense as your deployment experience and all of these things and i think that that's all really good but we should also be thinking about which bits make sense to potentially say you know that that's not research anymore that i should go talk to the ietf and which bits we're saying you know this this component of the system is is not yet well enough defined and we need to refine the design and do some do some more research to make it perhaps scalable to the internet or to solve whatever issues we see in there so you know again i'm sort of putting in a plea to think about what other components and what are their relative maturity levels as as well as just what experience do we have from using the system as a whole uh you're muted brian suresh [Music] thank you straight radial lips i was trying to read your lips and say like hey did you say like speak or not sure yeah it's hard to yeah uh yeah so i think one of the things i was kind of thinking like it's probably is my engineering brain on like a little bit right like uh so how does this like work on the improbably stuff right right now we're looking at like one reference implementation more or less right like everything coming out of eta it's kind of like at a basic level so like how does like um somebody do a build an interoperable gateway implementation on some other site right i think that or something that needs to get documented and also another thing i couldn't figure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "out is the versioning right like you know everything is version zero zero so what happens if there's like version zero one get stepped up and how do they talk to each other right especially if somebody else is implementing it i think i thought that needs to get into a draft somehow right like you're not talking about like you know more implementation consideration that nails like kind of little bit uh dovetails into like what media was saying as well like you know maybe we haven't seen these issues right it's not really what issues have you experienced but it's also what issues you might experience going forward i think the versioning one is a really really good point because we have we have figured out so many ways to do that wrong in the ietf um and are working there's active work right now in the transport area where we're we're trying something that might be right but we don't know yet right so um uh yeah i think that does like plus one just a rash on both those points yeah absolutely and i'm not sure if it's rash if you had a look at our documentation but also there we have to we have in the plan to be a little better at that right now we have versioning for the let's say open source implementation um but that's that's definitely a good point from a protocol level as well one thing to mention about that is that when it comes to the cryptography or parts of the cryptography scion allows to eventually replace some of the mechanisms there so but in general this is a very good impact please keep it in mind thank you thanks nicole i think that the algorithm and cipher agility in in the crypto side of things is probably the most important thing to get right because like in the worst case you can just encrypt everything else and then nobody can you know you don't have the you don't have the on path problem um but like in general because you are basically encrypting certain information for certain devices on path"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "you still have to make sure you sort of have the minimum profile right like because there's the minimum profile problem i mean like these are all sort of relatively well understood problems but like we make sure we have sort of answers for those and that those are documented leaving the queue open for other people on next steps and then i will take my read from the chair and then ask colin to correct me as the irtf chair but if there i think there's a lot of good points here i will we'll work a little bit um uh this evening and tomorrow uh to get the minutes together oh hello spencer go ahead please count on me so i think the the my understanding of what we're saying is that uh most of the feedback is how to move this forward not trying to talk ourselves out of moving things forward and i think i think that uh that's an important thing for us to uh take away if it's true and but i mean this this is what i'm this is what i'm hearing if other people are hearing other things that might be useful to know thank you i'm i'm i'm willing to be like convinced otherwise on this point but as a chair i'm not sure i want to take the um is this a terrible idea and should we go away with it um um not because you know i'm afraid of the result either way but because i think there is like what i'm hearing is there are questions that we know that we need to be answered in order to to make that determination and we don't have the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "answers to those yet right like so what i'm hearing is that is a lot of people pointing at this gap analysis document and say i want the gap analysis document but recognizing that the term gap analysis for that document is is you know was not that accurate when we started talking about it and through sort of the amendments that have been made uh in this discussion is is completely inaccurate at this point um yeah i see that i'm actually kind of making the point that miriam made in the chat if you can honestly identify existing components you can adopt potentially extended reuse that makes it starting to work much easier uh it's not about the gaps it's about like the parts to reuse and how to extend them and i think there's also the the suggestion of like what does it look like if we split this apart and only do one i think that's another good way to approach that question spencer yeah and uh i agree with the uh characterization of what a gap analysis should be versus what it could be and we would definitely hope for one that was what it should be the the the one thing i would say about that is uh there's that's an ietf my my opinion that's an itf step uh that that if you don't have that before you go to the ietf with something um you're going to have a long you're going to have a bunch of long conversations with people who are going to be asking the same question over and over in different venues so i you know i think that that's a uh a useful thing for people to do before they go to the ietf with some part of this work so maybe so maybe uh another interesting thing to do is to say how you know how much of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "what is separable you know you know mario was talking about like three lumps how many how many lumps do the scion people think there are or should be and we might even find that other other people can look at those and say part of that is separable and you know part of that is separable from everything in this lump and so we could we could look at that separately and potentially propose it separately uh one one thing that's also good to say is we have a lot of experience with uh pieces of things that go into different ietf working groups maybe even in different areas right yep so so so uh the you know basically the decomposition and saying you know how many pieces are really involved here uh is is going to be something that's going to be really uh useful and i think that um i think i think that um i think that the um i'm sorry uh i think that i am uh i i think that that's a really uh useful thing to do so anyway yeah thank you so i think there is actually a question that i wanna and you can you can you know see that i was trying to figure out how to use the show of hands tool um i think there is a question that i would like to pose to people in this room uh right now about this sort of this composition decomposition component i'm not sure the word of it but like this document that we started talking about is a gap analysis you made a really good point earlier that i you know um i think with both my hats on uh agree with um that panergy is an excellent venue to get the kind of feedback to hone that analysis um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "and i i think the question that i want to ask then is do the um does the research group believe that that is a useful thing to work on in the rg and a useful product of the rg um and yeah so oh okay i dismissed it but i didn't end the session so i've already started it so does it make sense to bring the scion composition analysis into pan rg raise for yes do not raise for no um and i'll leave that open for another 30 seconds or so so i'm seeing 16 hands um 12 yay for nay which is i'm going to interpret as a pretty good signal that we should ask um the scion folks um to uh send us that document um and then collaborate like send us an initial draft of that document with a view toward collaborating on that uh in pan rg um so that is one concrete outcome of this um i think i've i think that's the next step uh of course do you have a question on that or uh yeah yes just a bit about the timeline because uh july might be you know we i think we have to really deep into this and july might be too early maybe but but i think we are also not in a hurry maybe yeah i would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "suggest start thinking about it and uh like we have a long tradition of like zero zero documents being you know very much works in progress uh and and i i would see this uh as something where uh the collaboration would continue uh within uh within the research group um so it's okay if what you have is a starting point with you know to do scribbled on it and you know we can we can discuss from there in philadelphia spencer are you still in queue [Music] oh i i know i i can't i can't click on anything while you were taking a poll i'm sorry and then i got distracted okay cool um i i would like to ask another question if anyone who raised their hand that no this doesn't make sense in pan rg would would like to talk about why i'm assuming that's not colin because he was already in queue it was already in the queue yeah i just wanted to follow up on on that previous point you and made current mate um the you know i mean that this sort of uh i'm not sure gap analysis is the right word but let's just get it's really not yes discussion um um i i'm not sure that that necessarily has to be a document initially uh i mean it certainly could be um but i i read the the sort of conversation we've been having is more of um you know the group has a bunch of interest in talking about this topic um and maybe that will result in in a concrete document that goes forward maybe it will be a bunch of discussions and then based on that discussions we we refine the idea of how the work should"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "be approached and then come up with a different plan for sort of concrete documents some of which maybe goes to the ietf some of which comes into this research group or whatever so i can read it more as understanding that the problem space rather than necessarily writing a document ready for publication no i i like that just that that so like i would say then the the um i'll go with what colin said um not necessary to have a document before philadelphia please do come to philadelphia prepared to talk about those questions because i think we'll we'll definitely put some time on the agenda to dig into that does that does that sound reasonable slash makes sense green at all uh yes well i i i cannot come to philadelphia but uh we can of course um prepare i can of course i probably i'll be i'll be chairing it and i won't be in philadelphia either most probably so yeah we can you know the time zone kind of works uh we'll try to set it up so that it's like i i think the last meeting's at like 10 p.m um uh in zurich so you mean this exactly would more be like preparing a presentation again where we could be preparing a presentation yes yeah and it it's just worth mentioning that like three quarters of the people in ietf 113 were remote so it's really okay if you're not in philadelphia yeah it's my holidays but okay i see i see i see what i can do yeah uh nicola was in or oh yeah just some of us would be there anyways but yeah yeah okay yeah we'll circle back internally and maybe we'll think if if we have enough to for uh to just send a very early draft anyways or if we just uh open up a discussion i think we'll definitely you know bring really you know bring people ready to have a discussion uh whether"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "those people are on site or not is less important um because there will be you know it'll be a hybrid meeting definitely yeah um i'm planning on attending the meeting i'm planning on co-chairing the meeting i'm not currently planning on being in philadelphia um as a case in point so yeah and then if there's enough there it makes sense to put it into a dock put it out of the dock but the main directive uh the all is come prepared to continue this discussion there with like a you know directly talking about what does it look like if we decompose this what are the the implications if we do just one thing what are the existing protocols that we could conceivably uh adapt or evolve what are the barriers to that um i think you might find in some cases like yeah this is not perfect but it's it's okay enough that if it gets us over having to switch the entire world over to a new system at once it reduces you know one reduces the the um barriers to adoption the itf but i think what's more important is reducing the barriers to adoption um of the technology right like so you know if it's easier to deploy because it's like hey it looks like something that we already have experience with that is that's a huge win right thank you miriah yeah i think i'm not saying anything new but i just wanted to underline this point that um a draft doesn't have to be like a final paper or whatever it's just like uh writing down information that people need for the discussion so it can be useful to have something written down that people can read before the meeting and can prepare but it doesn't have to be perfect and it doesn't have to be complete or anything like that so um yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "thank you very much okay thanks for the input and colin is the irtf chair to close the discussion i was about to ask you to come up and do that anyway so well you'd almost think we had a secret back channel um yeah i mean i mean you know the conclusion i'm taking away from this is is that there's a bunch of people who are interested in the ideas um and you know i think spencer said earlier you know it's not you the feedback is how to move this forward not should we move this forward i think um [Music] the the the there seems to be a general view and i think i agree with this that the ietf is not good at taking large systems on um it's good at taking a bunch of components which can be assembled into a large system and understanding that the pieces that those are a part of the cyan system and how to approach approach taking the different pieces and which ones are ready for standardization and which ones are uh there's more research uh open seems to be the the key thing going forward so yeah i think um you know identify the components figure out which ones can be adopted which ones can be potentially extended and reused and make the starting point which bits of cyan are ready for standardization now which bits are potentially less mature and need more thinking about um understand the pieces and then we can then figure out how to move the pieces forward rather than trying to approach this as one whole thing that needs to be standardized uh and i i think i agree that this this group is a reasonable place to have that discussion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "about understanding the pieces okay so what i'm what i'm taking away is is chairs is there's basically two action items there's one action item for the scion folks to come prepared to talk about what i i'm gonna call a component analysis right like so it's really about what are the components of the system how are those components um similar to existing parts of the internet architecture what happens if you deploy only one of them components what are the possible if less than optimal um uh parts of the current internet architecture and the internet protocol stack that could be adapted to replace the missing components of the scion system if you only deployed one or two of them um i think you know that's a fair amount of work and i would say that the action item is come prepared to start that discussion uh at ietf 114. i also heard an action item for the chairs to schedule significant time for this discussion uh at panergy uh in ietf 114 and also be prepared to schedule additional interim meetings because you know i i do want to have um some time on the agenda for call for open topics uh at the you know at the ietf meeting but like interims are cheap right and i think we we found today this was a very productive interim um and i think that we can especially if we um like have parts of this discussion sort of in the wider audience like the you know today there were like 34 people peak in the room there's usually like i mean in the pandemic times um there were 80 to 90 uh coming into the top energy um in person um well pre-pandemic times um the uh and i think a model where we basically are sort of like exposing what's coming out of that discussion there and then like continuing it in interims um could work quite well um so um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "we'll figure out what interim schedule makes the most sense we want to do one or two between the itfs but i think that we'll we'll do nothing in terms of scheduling an interim before um uh before 114 uh and then prepare to sort of like continue the discussion between philadelphia and london does that seem reasonable yeah i think that makes sense and then hopefully by the time of the november meeting we'll have a pretty good idea how to approach this and uh yeah i think that's it i think that i i i like that too and then we can have a you know and then prepare for i guess the next one's in san francisco um like anything that comes out of this that then is like you know ietf ready would be would be san francisco that seems like a realistic timeline okay [Music] excuse me when is it in san francisco uh that's march of 2023 ah okay okay i believe that brings us to the end of our agenda unless anyone has any other business for the path aware networking research group going once i'm not sure your timeline of itf meetings is right but yes other than that yes i know there's one in san francisco at some point but yeah like the one after london is the one that is the one that we'll be targeting for london plus one i i just i just i just wanted to thank the chairs for uh for scheduling the center on this was terrifically productive thank you very much happy to have been of service yeah i also want to to thank you for organizing this meeting and uh also for at least uh having an idea of what we can do next and then yeah i hope we can kind of come up with something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "interesting for the next ietf absolutely oh yeah so myria points out in the chat that the mar the march is in asia and then the july is is uh san francisco so we'd be we'd be targeting the march meeting not the july meeting for foreign i already we already submitted just just leave it for now um yeah let's like leave it for now i think that you know we can take uh discussion points on the list or any feedback for updating it um like i i think it actually does make sense uh as a a draft like an individual draft targeted at pan rg right now like with you know the draft decade or pan rg it shows up in uh pan rg's document list as a targeted document um i think it's a good sort of like background for people who are going to contribute to that sort of like composition and you know how would we how would we bring something like this in the ietf discussion um you know it's good sort of like base reading i think we would make a determination later as a research group as to whether we want to publish it as a as an rfc or if i i think that where we're probably going to get is whatever document comes out of that component analysis makes more sense to publish because they're also sort of like generalizable principles that we can pull out of that um okay so yes absolutely uh i will hopefully tomorrow possibly monday um send out uh minutes uh for the meeting i have collections of of notes uh that i took and we'll post those to the list as well um and uh also to to karen nicola and all you know scion folks uh you know it's it's not that we're expecting sort of like a fully formed presentation and idea to appear at the philadelphia meeting um if there's anything that you're working on that you have questions on or need or want feedback on please do not hesitate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "that to post that to the pan rg list right that's what the list is there for okay thanks sure thanks and equally reach out to either myself or to the dependency chairs if there are questions absolutely good all right uh thank you additionally to um all of the participants uh this was um uh a i don't wanna say a surprisingly productive meeting i i but i i will say i think we got um farther into a better place um than i was hoping to get today so um thank you very much for the discussion i think we got like a really good sort of like strong signal on what to do next and uh let's get to work thanks a lot everyone and i will see you in not philadelphia have a great day bye-bye thank you you"
  }
]
