[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:14",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] so with afternoon MPLS is about to start we will have two sessions one is today the other one is on Friday morning and there will be also a joint session with C camp on Thursday so note well it\u0027s a new note well yeah I think so Lu put it in the t\u0027s meeting ask if you for example hum on one particular the raft and you know about now if you\u0027re on that raft you have to disclose so everything you do say or go about here it\u0027s under the note well and please take care and disclose if you name and read it carefully yeah so a couple of administrative a--so please speak to the mics there should be pink squares on the floor in fact but I haven\u0027t seen one oh yes one okay so you stand inside the things we are all materials uploaded to the MPLS working group page and we have two minute takers I guess yeah mideco is active and as I said agenda and so on on the web so we have had a couple of smaller problems George can\u0027t travel so he won\u0027t be here this meeting tarik was about to do the airport in Toronto thinking it was raining so the flight was canceled he should be arriving about this time but he we haven\u0027t seen him yet so if there is anything in have a misspelling on agenda or slide tied to those things on the uploaded again there\u0027s probably I that\u0027s in there it\u0027s not tired um okay so we have again draft for today "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:15",
    "text": "I don\u0027t think it\u0027s too much idea to bash the Friday agonda because we will do that on Friday morning or actually I should say that first before I start what we have done is actually we swapped the mpls slot on Friday to 10:30 borrowing time from routing area routing working group we haven\u0027t you have a green sir so we distort the mpls meeting on Friday at 10:30 and hopefully and 11:30 we were doing this because we were in the same room so it was just swapping us up in time and some of us had something we needed to do where we could do during the mpls slot in the afternoon so it was very peaceful okay anyone that song maganda one thing we have a longest Lord 30 minutes that\u0027s not a lot number r8 begin to discuss bhp directed thereafter it has been stuck for a very long time we want to see if we can come to a situation where you can move with the head BFD share at the mic jeff has so my request is to maybe bump the BFD topic a little bit further up on the off hand chance that other topics want to push it out I will not be here on Friday that participate I couldn\u0027t hear you close to mark and loud could you please move the DFT presentation today further up the schedule so it doesn\u0027t get pushed out into Friday I will not be here on Friday no it\u0027s not on Friday it\u0027s today I I am aware what the schedule says I\u0027m also where the topics overrun okay we actually have a ten minutes buffer at the antis should work so let\u0027s do it like that we put it as slot number four that\u0027s fine okay is that one okay with that Mac you just got pushed down is that fine okay great so we had a slot freebie that we do the adult direct in and let me see we have Carlson room we have Greg in Rome and we have low in the room so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:16",
    "text": "have all everyone here good anything else okay we give with this agenda let me see so blue sheets has been started passing along and when you sign them as the last one last one on the last forward them to the share a check if there is anyone that is not signed yet okay so when you\u0027re done exactly coming down in the middle coming this way okay we have an errata that actually been approved and it was kind of the way I\u0027m reading it is just a grammar change and I don\u0027t have any opinion on English grammar but other than that it\u0027s hard so it\u0027s a problem it\u0027s good it should be kept for update we have lace incoming liaisons I think everyone here everything here is under control and we will kind of work on a response with the other working groups and yeah we haven\u0027t sent any liaison however we are preparing a liaison at the moment that will go out as soon as we can get the sound and it\u0027s just telling a stereo 15 that the ampulla TP shared ring protection has been approved okay we have new oral seas I think it\u0027s free of them that\u0027s kind of can kind of normal between two meetings the next time we have one new working group document and lots of working with documents that has been updated the blue documents in this this ceaseless org document that will be on the agenda we have discussed the tempura temporal hitless PSM document today I had his custody Deborah and we will try the one loss Carmen sleeping at it No okay there are a number of new IDs and like half of them are on the agenda later today or on Friday so the list here is not that I do need to talk about each and every draft if you have questions on draft you can you can ask "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:17",
    "text": "them otherwise this is just a bookkeeping so we can go back and check what was that what was that what was up at the meeting in in Prague 2017 and we also have a number of documents that might be interest for people for people here that are in other working groups we list them for the same reason just as a heads up and you can check if there is anything you need to pay attention to and that one is yeah [Music] okay so I\u0027m aware of updates for not updates really it\u0027s a information on two drafts one is the opportunistic security draft that one if I understand it correctly will be allowed to expire unless Stephen can find a student to do some student work then it will be revived again we also have the 50:36 base still an individual draft the next thing we will do in that trap is actually the write rewrite a and a section I took to iron our last time and I got an instruction on what to do and I try to do it in they come out very awkward so I talk to them again and then it will be updated you please clarify what the issue with opportunistic encryption is the the issue is that we have we didn\u0027t have any take it to do the plan was to actually get students to do a student project around that and then forwarded as as an experimental drug experimental RFC we couldn\u0027t find the student actually found the student that the student defected so if they even actually can find the student we will arrive it again that\u0027s no technically assumed okay Yahoo you change good afternoon my name Shaolin from juniper on behalf of all the out cars are here today we presented "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:17",
    "text": "this unified South shouting use and yesterday post at here so basically since version zero three author encounter from Nokia Jeff individual and Shaolin added into the Carson group here and then we are also modifying something on the adjacent since II and also some text to indicate the benefit of using technology even follow up with it I guess spring to man and this my sort of we\u0027re also working here so the first topic we will talk about it is a chapter linear as the overlay part so the tracker linear or the transportation pretty previously was sinking as an underlay of Transportation somehow but the traffic engineer is actually a capability along the package size somehow so with any transportation if you\u0027re adding try to adding the traffic and in your capability as one of the overlay capabilities such as a one optimization another somehow so that\u0027s why we try to highlight with sec knocking label here with the label stack you actually can add in an existing transportation the similar traffic and in your capability on this one so especially in certain successful deployment such as Google before and others so the really sinking traffic engineer is not a transportation or just underlays pretty much the iron function on top of that so I think the this one is not the latest one actually when we change the picture version to a different version zero slice yeah yeah Oh still okay anyway really I really changed a lot of a picture here and so it\u0027s gone so the the idea here is we use Japanese overlay here then p-pass is actually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:18",
    "text": "just a set of label stack then the transportation will be the IP GRE or IP UDP hider across given the node and so on so in that case first use a second label stack not for transportation just for traffic linear capability here so if you try to send the packet from one to another then you want to really want to check a linear in in the middle here you can actually use GRE UDP or even lttb any kind of mechanical the certain node in the topology here is upgrated to support those assumption so the key function here is when you first hop router receive the packet people found out the next capable of this shelter so the routing protocol updated maybe just laboratory the existing second routing v6 sorry section one sec not in SSR OSPF then the node a and no E\u0026G and somehow they actually issuing the information you change the label stack information for sec no team then between the a and a certain node in the middle they cannot support either MPLS said no team or you cannot support like totally understand this capability then you actually sending in cap into a UDP or GRE header from A to E then the next one you actually can push a label stack to to stand folder chapel in your capability here so then the next node e you actually not looking for you actually D cap the GRE hider or the UDP header then you look at the first label stash here so this label is not swapped to another level this auto label the so the label neighbor G levo G is actually look at in node E then my team to the UDP header so the lookup engines like you have a label incoming label then this label you outgoing is a GRE tunnel or the UDP tunnel then fund to the node G then you go to the node h and so on so that\u0027s a procedure here so the k even between this draft and sent routing normal test handling draftees the forwarding behavior change so previously the SEC routing you actually pop up a label then you actually swap all follow another label but this time use reasonable you look helper for the next edition C which is the tunnel somehow so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:20",
    "text": "that\u0027s actually I\u0027m working for both ipv4 and ipv6 and even even certain node in between they only support ipv6 forwarding no capability for MPLS and so on those boxes if you upgrade to this capability then they can forwarding as as as well for ipv6 as well so next one sorry previously one yeah so the another capability for this one so we\u0027re adding this label stack of ultra near capability then we keep the viewing capability as another label here so this measurable working with any existing between mechanical layer two layer three EVP and so on so all the existing protocol will be support here so in in that case if you look at the label stack here the the innermost label reading instruction that you can differentiate different people between demand here then right channels just transportation that in the middle is T pass or the second note in chief engineer capability add on to that channel as well so you follow the similar function then the last hop or the top h you actually look at the papian label then you go forward to the different reaping instance here so certain advantage over second v6 here we saw is actually we have a fallback and as labeling encapsulation other than the second working with six assists in bad then we also backward compatible with all the NPS spring here then seamless integration with existing NPS between and byte allowed panels because of a UDP saucepot you can use a lot balancer of from first hop router point of view but if you mean capitana from a host then you you lost those capability as well so another advantage here is all the existing hardware including the latest broken shape like trend m3 Jericho can support engines over GRE MPs over UDP all the major vendors box can support this one without any how well change so that\u0027s kind of a advantage here then we also not to try to replace I\u0027m just as rare here so it\u0027s basically the incremental deployment with an TSS brain so for certain customer the really sink 5g ipv6 will be the future then get rid of the enters transportation then use ipv6 as transportation adding the G "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:21",
    "text": "function on top of that the benefit for this one so basically the solution overcome the lot bonus problem that is there\u0027s actually two problem with signaling with existing how we\u0027re somehow basically certain a seeker can only read certain apps of a label for load balance in detail then another wise the ingress router how many label can push that\u0027s another problem here so you either way we know we have a certain alternative solution but this is a true problem for the existing our own implementation which is a protein but with this new method you have a better choice here so let\u0027s come to the next step so any comments on suggestion any anything so I\u0027m so sorry the the slides are kind of a mess up we do have a better version another can arrange documents first one I\u0027m not sure to see what this turn up track document is trying to specify if you remove the use case on the figures it\u0027s a one-page document that you can summarize in one sentence which is if I have an empty list node and I don\u0027t have amperes connectivity to my destination effect I can use an IP turn and that point is already specified in the MPLS in UDP RFC so what is the new specification so the new capabilities use a transportation tunnel together with saty stack for the tracker Minear previously if you only do the tunnel part you cannot have the per hop forwarding behavior then which is a very simple use label to tunnel imagine from our point of view I believe the MPS in UDP draft you can put any MP respect including a stack of la vella so my name is Yahoo one course or this job the purpose of this job is to describe how to leverage the existing MPS capability including amperes and routing and ampere so VDB tunnelling technologies to realize the te overlays over IP chessboard IPO lies IP on the rise that\u0027s that\u0027s why this job is information informational no it\u0027s track it\u0027s not attract well it is a static track correct okay okay oh right it\u0027s dropped what changed from informational to stand trunk is we want to reduce the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:25",
    "text": "MPS sauce pot label a triple field in that way there no need to insert each upon labels between the MPS label stack in that case when chance it sr rock broader the capsulate UDP tonneau is should remember the saucepot value that is the a triple value and then when it\u0027s perform another encapsulation is can reduce the cash to boom value that\u0027s different from the existing MPs forwarding rollin capability so that\u0027s why this job is it\u0027s different from MPs to impress but it\u0027s not different from MPs to you dp-tuner MPs in your divisional which is already specified on the encapsulation in now chain but the difference is we want to reduce the sauce pot label and only it simply fail for the MPS over UDP Paquette that means there no need to insert any super labels bring the label stack okay I think we can continue on the list but okay I\u0027m not seeing the the specify the parking in the draft okay second question what is the relationship with draft Bryant which is called a unified approach to IP segment Regina I see a lot of overlap between to draft and kind of technical content on teleporters so do we need a true document are going to be made or we\u0027re still talking about it but the issue will be resolved you mean are going to be matter okay but you target one draft yeah okay we may need architectures as whether we\u0027re not sure how many drafts of obscure got closer to the mic we\u0027re not sure how many drafts it would take to properly describe this because it\u0027s part of a bigger problem as you will note with the next draft that\u0027s going to be discussed let\u0027s let\u0027s let we need to work through this there\u0027s tough individual drafts we still need to work through the process okay so we need to keep it short now we\u0027re running out of time quick question quick responses yes so this will for my comment is arranged now with the Supreme Court Rio exactly all your draft all your slides of our boats premium or Sigma routine so why do you think MPI squawking hope it\u0027s a good home for that draft because it\u0027s all it\u0027s all about spring it so you will probably have better feedback you can I can take that with when anything sounds "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:26",
    "text": "income you know that\u0027s a new draft and it has some relation to more than one group we start presenting anything one group and then we socialize it with the groups that group wouldn\u0027t you\u0027ve shared that we think would be interesting in this case that I think you should be one of them I think Lou and T\u0027s group could be one of them and we decide which group that you take this okay but from the draft for further slides it\u0027s more about spring and yes a second inside there\u0027s a tunnel mechanical and we try to overall see the value in the existing topology and network and so on so if you want feedback I think you would have a better feedback in this printing okay let\u0027s talk about them offline machinery Cisco Systems can you go back to slides one more I just want the one that has nice diagrams colorful ones yes this one if I have a IP IP tunnel between a and E and I click that the virtual interface this is exactly what you have here right I\u0027m asking the same question what is new here it\u0027s just you\u0027re running Sigma routing over a virtual interface which is an IP tunnel that\u0027s it right so take this question but in this approach there are no need to can take any explicit tunnel between a and Yi when a want to Sarah amperes packet the top label in a case e but there are no outgoing label for yi so a will pop the top level then it caps with MPs packet between UDP tano okay I think I have to do what sheriffs often do in this organization take it to the list please okay I actually take it to the list because the discussion needs to continue okay thank you very much - Asif yandex just a short comment on pushing large labels tags at least in control environments now we can extend in POS forward and all the way to Sage modern topic chipsets are perfectly capable of origin in pairs and that means at least in some cases we can push label stack on the host and in fact there are good arguments why pushing long and complex label stack on the is a good idea at least in some cases for sure and so pushing a little longer these liberal status not problem but in the middle the chips ad capability how many label you can read and then make "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:27",
    "text": "the decision for the Lord balance that\u0027s a problem okay thanks we have to do on thank you very much good afternoon they talk about how to leverage the unified sauce locking Magnum to realize service chain changes since a lot like a meeting three closers and Eden and some tensed about how to carry metadata of adding MPs package is ending as well and you can see from this picture the service chain is real life add overlay just as what had been mentioned the pipe so on in the previous presentation the MPS stack which is used to indicate servicing or service path since vast fortune as in encoded and ambience labels that that label stack is then encapsulated over UDP tunnels so with this approach is fully meet the transport in pendency requirement for the surf chain which is listed in the searching architectural requirements RC since there are no explicit protocol ID field within amp a packet so it will be hard to indicate whether on method is contained or not reading our MPs packet there are multiple solutions to address this issue why a tree along the service function for water to ink to allocate true labels wine indicates the presence of metadata another a to indicates the absence of MAG data here matter date it contained the ink the matter could be contained in network service handler that means the service network service hinder playing role of metadata container only in this case of course no details need to be specified in future versions advantages over message first land states on sales "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:30",
    "text": "function forwarders the same with claim benefits as our v6 based solution approach second is leverage the efficient MPs network programming capabilities third is build on the existing MPs hardware forwarding capabilities comment sessions any questions thank you okay thank you so we are at the BBC directed slot you\u0027re gonna start with low talk about IPR and things related to that note well and other things then begin to make Carlos go over his review and then Greg finishing up and there should be time for discussion hi I\u0027m Lou burger I was asked by the chairs to talk a little bit about IPR not sure exactly where the group or the chairs want to take this so I\u0027m just gonna give you some high-level background if you and then open the floor to questions hopefully only take about a couple of minutes this is the note well the new note well it\u0027s basically the same as the one we\u0027ve used for the last couple of years the biggest difference is is that we now highlight that RFC 81-79 is available 81-79 provides an update to the IETF site Dr rules disclosure rules and notably it clarifies what is a contribution what is not a contribution basically it says that anything you do on any of the in the public arena of the IETF is an IPR contribution that\u0027s whether you do it electronically on a list whether you do it it within a design team whether you do it in person here by saying something or if you participate in any way in a working group activity and a working group activity and it goes into this is certainly giving a presentation like this although obviously I don\u0027t have any idea on it talking at the mic raising your hand humming is part of a a poll or even expressing some personal opinion through whatever means like crowning when someone is presenting an idea that\u0027s even considered a contribution basically the rules also say that if you contribute to the IETF or contribute to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:31",
    "text": "work in an IETF that you\u0027re subject to the disclosure rules and the the I think I have this on the next slide the disclosure rules basically say if you participate in any way you contribute you\u0027re required to disclose any knowledge you have about IPR on the topic sometimes it may happen that you contribute and then find out about IPR then you need to disclose it at the the most honest a convenient but timely fashion as you could you can if you know about IPR and you want to contribute but for some reason you can\u0027t disclose that IPR the rules say you can\u0027t basically they say you can\u0027t contribute so if you know of IPR and you\u0027re not willing to disclose it don\u0027t participate I had this happen to me personally I just never walked in the room of that working group ever didn\u0027t even subscribe to the list there are lots of ways you can handle it individually you should take a look at the the duck of the new rules and decide how you want to deal with them clearly some conversations that happen while you\u0027re at the IETF are not subject to IPR disclosure in it and the document 81 79 clarifies if you\u0027re having a private conversation even if it\u0027s in the building but it\u0027s just the one-on-one thing and you know maybe it\u0027s vendor to customer or maybe it\u0027s to a colleague and you\u0027re talking about some design that\u0027s not subject to IPR so it\u0027s not like the rules or trying to be crazy here there are trying to be reasonable so what do you do if someone doesn\u0027t disclose first of all from a working group standpoint it\u0027s a working group chairs responsibility to deal with that situation anyone who\u0027s participating in the working group anyone is participating the IETF is welcome to help identify that that situation is going on but really it\u0027s the chair of the working group to figure out how to deal with it when it\u0027s in the context of a working group the ADEs play a role particularly as you get to the sort of most more severe responses you definitely have to end and the ad can certainly be the person who\u0027s alerted to about the IPR there is a way to do third-party IPR disclosures and that\u0027s also covered in 81-79 the there\u0027s an RFC from Adrian who\u0027s not in the room he\u0027s chairing a different session that talks about what are the sanctions available to violate through the violations of the policy the sanctions are actually I wouldn\u0027t call that call "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:33",
    "text": "them all that heavy they\u0027re related to our process and the the draft lists tend items ranging from if a chair hears about the IPR or even an individual can do this you could talk to the person and say hey you know there\u0027s this IP right here please dispose it as quickly as you can and sometimes you\u0027ll see they\u0027ll say yeah I know I should have gotten it done we just didn\u0027t I just it\u0027s before it\u0027s working its way through legal that happens we deal with it if the lack of disclosure becomes repeat a repeated offense or it\u0027s pretty egregious you know the the person who\u0027s the author of the lead off of the document is also the lead author on the on the disclosure I\u0027m sorry on the patent filing and the patent filing was five years earlier you know clearly the person should have known that\u0027s pretty blatant you might start looking at some more some of the more extreme responses and basically you can the chairs can end up removing someone as an author moving them down to the acknowledgement section or even if it\u0027s really a repeated thing you can just stop them from participating in the working group and to do that by the way you have to involve the ad I think I\u0027ve covered this at a high level I may have missed something I\u0027m sure I did but if you have questions please so Louie and by the way I\u0027m just speaking as an IETF participant and someone who\u0027s been a chair and had to deal with these issues over the years I happen to also be on the IOC which makes me a trustee I am NOT speaking as a trustee in this forum okay Greg Merson city I experienced that many times with the early disclosure while before their application being published it creates some confusion because no one can really evaluate the relevance of their IPR to the draft if you notice there\u0027s no statement here about evaluation of relevance so once an IPR is disclosed it\u0027s up to the working group members to decide how they want to do what they want to do with it the IETF no IAD member is G member working group chair is going to evaluate the statement they say whether whether it is a reasonable claim as a working group chair I\u0027ve had documents which are sort of like problem statement and someone does an IPR disclosure about them I won\u0027t say whether that\u0027s reasonable or not I say what texts does that apply to and they say these paragraphs I said okay those paragraphs are removed from the document right so that\u0027s that I\u0027ve certainly done that as a as a chair I\u0027ve also seen working "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:35",
    "text": "groups that when an IPR disclosure comes in look at it and say you know what we don\u0027t want to work on that that direction of that technology in an extreme case and it\u0027s talked about in the draft is you can empty mentioned on the slide intentionally you can the workgroup can say fine we\u0027re not gonna work on that technology at all you know maybe that\u0027s not our main our main business this is something we want but because of that disclosure we\u0027re not going to do anything in that area that that\u0027s a reasonable option for an available option for working group but it\u0027s up to the working group to decide basically we have information and then we follow our consensus process right but again for somebody in the working group who wants to do the research himself their existence of the published application is important it sure is very convenient you\u0027re right absolutely but it\u0027s not a requirement you don\u0027t have to you don\u0027t have to wait for the information to be published the patent application to be published in order to make an IPR declaration in fact as I personally interpret the rules you shouldn\u0027t so if me is a individual go write a patent application and then go write a draft that that patent application relates to I believe I have to disclose at the time I publish the internet draft that\u0027s the way I read it I\u0027m talking just as an individual but that\u0027s how I read the dress I agree that\u0027s the by the way this is the exact thing that I was referring to for me personally I had a patent application in area something came up things were in public I didn\u0027t want to file I didn\u0027t wanna talk I didn\u0027t want to disclose it because things were still working its way through so I just didn\u0027t touch that area whatsoever okay no I agree because the thing is that personally that\u0027s the policy I follow and try to encourage the holder of IPR to do the right thing okay so whilst this is an interesting area and actually in my view is that the process is fundamentally broken because you can\u0027t have a detailed discussion in the working group about the details of the IPR I\u0027m curious why are we having this discussion here of MPLS were a grouping particularly bad because this seems to be a discussion we should have in the area meeting tomorrow rather than in a technical meeting yeah that can take a party response to that I have a situation where I need to deal with the document we will discuss and in our PR disclosure against that document and I want to know what I can do what I can expect the different parties to do and what I we can do if they don\u0027t do what they if they don\u0027t do what they should do so we have a live problem that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:35",
    "text": "I think we had the problem and I wish that people would sit down and say okay it\u0027s gone away the situation is like this we had a draft through working group loss in work new law school we got an IPR a blocking arc we are comment on that both of those person that actually made that comment at that time has now said that okay that they don\u0027t they have Whitlow on their block in common so I\u0027m happy with that now that is partly because the draft has changed but the IPR holder has not done anything and I don\u0027t think we can actually require the IPR holder to to do anything so it\u0027s up to us to evaluate and do ahead from that from that point you\u0027re correct there is no nothing that the ietf can do to compel an IPR holder to disclose to update a disclosure to remove a disclosure there are certain recommendations in 81 79 but they there\u0027s nothing that will compel them it does also mention that failure to disclose IPR and then bringing work into a standards body and knowingly not disclosing that IPR in certain venues has resulted in the the patent claims being invalidated that\u0027s what it says that in the text that it notes it notes that so there\u0027s some good incentives out there for IPR holders who want to enforce their IPR to disclose but those incentives aren\u0027t imposed by the ietf they\u0027re coming from a legal framework that we actually had the quite different situation here we don\u0027t have a failure to disclose we probably have a a over disclosure so you as a chair can\u0027t correct that all you can do is as a working group look at it and decide whether or not you want to continue with the document continue with the technology change the document change the technology and whether you want to submit for publication request that\u0027s all you can do I mean it would be nice to do more but cut off peanut arrow Cisco Lu I have not read 81-79 I have read previous versions a to see every letter I still do have a question which is not an offer oh you read it I didn\u0027t so you\u0027re a better position to answer these than me for sure there\u0027s a draft right hypothetical situation and IPR gate is closed against it the working group works around the IPR right changing the document moves on a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:36",
    "text": "different wave removes the paragraph that you\u0027re needed in your personal example what are the requirements to the to the IPR holder or to the person doing the disclosure if they know the IPR doesn\u0027t apply anymore if any like are there requirements or can that be forever ad infinitum in there so there are no requirements on IPR IPR holders in this process whatsoever full stop to do see all right and there are obligations to a disclose disclose e but it doesn\u0027t include that they must remove IPR that they believe it does not include that whether that\u0027s an oversight or not that\u0027s a good thing to bring up at in Singapore because the authors of 81-79 notably George who\u0027s the paid attorney for the ITF he\u0027s going to be talking if they\u0027re putting together a presentation and we\u0027ll be talking through this so that\u0027ll be a good place to ask why that\u0027s not there or should it be there I can tell you it is not there there\u0027s no obligation to say remove in that personal example that I refer to that draft still has that IPR yeah that it\u0027s a still draft the draft still has an IPR reference against that even though we know tax been removed reality is well if it never goes to court we\u0027ll deal with it that sure brawny I was going to basically reinforce your very last point which is that no one knows the validity of the IPR or the applicability or the applicability to the change texts until the judge has looked at it and decided in court and that\u0027s way beyond our society that\u0027s right all we can do is a working group is decide whether or not to progress a document simple as that and actually the licensing condition actually comes in if it\u0027s a free for use then that that may be a discussion in the working group there is no position that I know of within the ietf management structure or process structure that says that but wait a moment we\u0027re explicitly excluded from discussing licensing terms so that\u0027s a piece of the broken process that I pointed out the scott-so paradigms because we can\u0027t discuss those we can\u0027t actually have the conversation you are I\u0027m not sure that\u0027s completely correct for example the document 81 79 talks about that there are certain areas where the IETF has expressed an interest in certain IPR licensing terms for example in cryptography and that\u0027s the example uses in the document there\u0027s an expressed bias by the IETF to do things that are I don\u0027t remember what the right term is but there\u0027s some license that they prefer so you know for example if the iesg did come up and say we prefer "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:36",
    "text": "this that would be that would be okay the document does go into a little bit of an excavation of why the ITF currently doesn\u0027t do that so you\u0027re right as a working group as a working group you know you can look at a document and say I don\u0027t like this disclosure I because of this disclosure I\u0027m not going I don\u0027t want to support this document right but you can\u0027t you can\u0027t say I don\u0027t like it because I\u0027ve got to pay money or I\u0027ve got to pay this much money or negotiate the amount or anything like it\u0027s a whole load of stuff that we\u0027re absolutely forbidden from from talking about you to add to trust if we\u0027re getting into what we\u0027re allowed to talk about and not allowed to talk about I think at that point we need George to come talk to the group I\u0027m not a person who\u0027s I\u0027m just reflecting what George said to me on a different occasion okay okay go down thank you sue Carlos so what I think I have at the starting point here is actually a bit both Carlos and the colonists comments on the document and I think I had a mail where Carlos and the author says that they are prepared to work jointly to resolve the issues if I correct yes okay I think that should be the starting point for this discussion yeah absolutely so I think probably a more precise way of saying that is I was asked to do a review for this for the RTG directory Directorate part of that uncover a bunch of issues I would love the working group to come to terms with the issue insist I mean this is not a Carlos conversation it\u0027s not like Carlos has issues I I\u0027m just highlighting you know a few deficiency that I see on the existing text but I have no say in anything other than doing a review for the Directorate for dat yep super so what am I doing here today in front of you Louis and an email saying look we have this document is being through three unsuccessful last calls Carlos yeah strictly that talk I had no problem with you disclosing it but that mail was not sent to the working group it to a smaller group so what Cora says is correct as done for it but it hasn\u0027t been sent to the working group I did not send the email to the working group I\u0027m just explaining what I\u0027m doing here okay so he says there\u0027s current issues let\u0027s dedicate time on the meeting to talk "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:36",
    "text": "about him and we\u0027re going to allocate whichever amount of time to discuss that and I need you to present and the main reason for me to sign here to including this is because I was requested to present so the background on the document deep diving into the into the technical issues now first working group last call I had not even read the document but like Laura said IPR blocking unsuccessful on the safer work working group last call ihe is when I first up a first set of comments and that that was also a an unsuccessful last call the result of that was removing a whole section on segment routing from the document which is like half of the document I think and that was because he was actually using label instead of fakes to refer to a return path on the third working group last called another review another set of documents another set of comments the net result of that and the bump up in version after that is because the authors decided to allow multiple sub TL widths which was one of the one of the you know initial very early comments when we look at this without allowing multiple sub tlvs we don\u0027t have the necessary degrees of freedom touch it direct the return path through things like a tunnel or through things like a nested set of LSPs and right now the last one is a routing directorate reveal which again link are posted there and what i want to talk about right now are the specifics of their technical issues right the the net summary of that from my experiment view is that the document is underspecified there\u0027s no enough to actually go down and sit down and implement an interval specification from it so the issues the first one is it\u0027s not it\u0027s pseudo technical perhaps but it\u0027s about the motivation that is actually lifted there is actually listed on the document the document talks about the main motivation being the return path needs to follow the exact same path that the forward direction of the LSP is taken and he goes into texts like this this is verbatim from the document a failure detection by the ingress node on the reverse path cannot be interpreted as bi-directional failure unambiguously on trigger switch over bla bla bla to address the scenario we gonna specify "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:37",
    "text": "we\u0027re going to allow the specification of a particular return path however doesn\u0027t that does not solve the problem I mean you can still not unambiguously interpreted by directional failure and in fact there\u0027s reasons why we traffic engineer traffic to not take the shortest path various reasons here\u0027s you know a extrapolated example but really if we want to have a forward path in red which is going ABCDEF and the shortest path on that network is g2a it\u0027s probably more likely that we\u0027re going to have a better chance of having a quality return path on the shortest path as opposed to trying to back engineer all the way exactly part of the point is that even if I use the same note or even if I use the same interfaces there\u0027s no guarantee that the programming is happening on the return path that is chosen as opposed to a different one there\u0027s no I\u0027m not you know passing opinion on whether this is useful or not I personally think it has some applicability potentially I don\u0027t think the motivation is you know well defining the dogma is that strict sauce rating is that strict source routing which on which any I to the HJ the red one yeah eco divino if it\u0027s not the nice EMP and the you CMP selection means that it\u0027s impossible to guarantee what the part is in either direction and I agree I agree that\u0027s part of the reason why the motivation has laid out in the document is bogus right without even without going to even if you specify inner face by inner face strictly it\u0027s now exactly and and if you don\u0027t then you still have a lot of other issues now going more you know known as early on the motivation on the technical things the structure of the effect sub TL B\u0027s this is text that is totally confusing because it doesn\u0027t really specify what to do it really says we\u0027re going to include a number of sub tlvs none one or more may be included and that\u0027s how the return path specified if none are found then you revert to a default which is our IP but that doesn\u0027t really explain what if some are found and what can you use an ill fake is allowed on the document what do you do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:37",
    "text": "with a pastor has an ill effects a specification what if you actually have the first two sub tlvs understood but not the third one you know what if some are found what if the LSP that you specified on the return path actually goes in a completely different direction right all of those things are just not contemplated sorry colors can take you back why is the problem why is there a problem with the thing we discussed just now because what you\u0027re gonna do is you may force me detective which is a fail-safe thing to do and probably what people would prefer so I don\u0027t understand why there\u0027s actually a problem if you declare a failure due to a failure in either the forward or the reverse part the univ it\u0027s different so you\u0027re running it the other way around this let me let me penetrate the question are you saying why do we need these solution yeah I\u0027m asking why we care whether we get a false positive post positive detection because it\u0027s at least piling safe is more of a question for the authors you know I I think is probably important to okay I had I think it\u0027s probably important to have the ability to select multiple paths to actually correlate and but there\u0027s nothing that you can really say unambiguously this is you know one of the one of the other questions that I raised a while ago which is confusing the document says if you don\u0027t understand this up till visco to a default path which is over IP but when I go to RFC 584 there\u0027s no default there\u0027s no default path there\u0027s no default via IP that takes from 58 84 is copied there and by the way all of this is on the mailing list already right so I\u0027m repeating but it basically says you can go over IP or you can go over an LSP and there\u0027s a uppercase May for both cases under Sun or in between the two paragraphs there\u0027s no the word default doesn\u0027t appear on the document one of the reasons why this is a little bit more of a a problem that is a little bit more complex at the over simplified solution that is presented either following this is mimicking what was done in RFC 7 1 1 0 4 LS peeping and that is fairly straightforward in the sense that you have a command response protocol in which the properly selves carry the instruction of how to return so an LSP echo pocket is essentially saying send me the reply right now to this packet using this path right and and there\u0027s you know complexity in doing that however we have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:38",
    "text": "these a different monster in here because because of a couple of reasons the first one is because there\u0027s persistency this is a protocol there is no request reply is a bootstrap configure any runs ideally forever if it doesn\u0027t detect a failure so you have to do with the persistency element associated with changes in topology and how that state gets maintained on the VM on the VFD endpoints right so you know questions like if I specify your return path that is not available right now shall I say that and switch over whenever it becomes available or if there is a return path right now and it goes down right I mean let\u0027s not assume topological invariably T I mean things change you know that\u0027s the whole purpose of having BFD what happens if I am actually on a return path and then that effect goes down or that release pecos down should it there\u0027s no default to go back to so that that is another area that is under specified in my opinion there\u0027s they\u0027re still after a few iterations a number of issues which I don\u0027t think fully understanding so for example there\u0027s a return code that says failed to establish a VFD session and right after that it says vigorous may establish the VFD session so you\u0027re essentially receiving a response code that says I failed to establish the session and then the protocol says you may establish it right so there is self-contradicting in terms of state that this import and this is you know a question for Jeff perhaps that this potential impulse additional state considerations on BFD should the end point have to somehow have a new variable like way of of saving the return path or not so I think this is operationally useful and interesting but I don\u0027t think it is operationally required the PFD RFC requires knowing whether the session is up or not you get that stayed out of thing behavior thank you switching to a different return path is similar to what I was talking about if there is a need to switch to a different paths but how how that exactly happens there is in 58 84 a provision for if I remember correctly optionally send LS "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:41",
    "text": "beeping messages after the bootstrapped so not for bootstrapping and and Jeff is saying no with the head but you know even if there is I\u0027m pretty sure there\u0027s no requirement for it and when you take that down to practice I\u0027m not aware of an implementation to actually tacit and there may be but I don\u0027t know them that what is actually in 58 84 is strictly about how to bootstrap a new session of the ERC is silent about how you would actually provide changes to the session and I think the most substantive BFD comment on this is if it is desired for these EFT sessions to be able to not like the bootstrapped with a fixed return path but be able to be up able to update them this is an update to 58 84 procedures rather than strictly a application thank you and that was the last question the third update the procedures in 58 84 if we want to have you know updates to the bf the incision state while well is running and the last I think and before that does torque why do you want to sort of modify an in-flight BFD session as opposed to starting a new one up which after we\u0027re only trying to find out where the other end is there so have two sessions and kill one of them when it\u0027s not fit purpose so I could speak to the motivation of the authors the the general impression I have on this document is we\u0027re using BFD BFD is bi-directional yeah the authors are really trying to do a unidirectional test but the bi-directional technology a consequence of this is you know even failure in the return path will falsely flag know that the forward path is the problem the technology that\u0027s trying to be specified here is an attempt to get the return LSP as closely coded to the sending path as possible to try to reduce the problem space I like all the comments that they made thus far all good reasons why this does not always work so it doesn\u0027t repeat it that didn\u0027t the PSP version 1.0 have a unidirectional negative operation no it does that it\u0027s always bad by rationale thank you and they last the last piece of technical comment on the review of the document is 58 84 cause at some particular requirements instead in terms of the UDP port usage so when you send something over IP you use a different border if you send it over on LSP that this is if we\u0027re talking about a bf this that can change the return path from an ASP to sender over IP there\u0027s also a change of UDP port and the implications of that are also not explained thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:45",
    "text": "any additional questions any question for Carlos so Craig okay so yes I think that that\u0027s what Stewart and Jeff pointed out is that we do try okay with being the over MPLS LSP we are monitoring unidirectional construct with a bi-directional instrument and as you see here so if we are monitoring LSP a to B then failure on reverse path will be interpreted by a as a failure of LSP being monitored and if we have a protection switch over associated with it it will train your unnecessary switch over the purpose of this proposal is not only to make it corrupted but it\u0027s possible that if we deem their network that used for reverse third class as unreliable unstable or less stable than other paths we can direct the reverse path over the more stable Network okay so it\u0027s not only intention of this proposal to make to create a corrupted beam these sessions but in as instrument to control reverse path and based on observations of operator to make it more stable more reliable and more deterministic in the term of detecting the failure that\u0027s the real intention and yes of course in some cases it might come to creating carotid being this session so the opposed mechanism is yeah here this this ultimate carotid but that\u0027s not the only wall of this proposal so as Carlos characterized yes we propose to create new the if you reverse path till V to be used in conjunction with a VFD discriminator t OB in LSP thing to identify the D session to wish it\u0027s applicable arm and then our in there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:45",
    "text": "being the universe path TV to have subsidies that describe the return path to some comments to the comment of our IP return path RFC 58 84 says that the return path over the LSP may be possible and this is bi-directional LSP so I\u0027m not sure really about how many bi-directional arrows piece we do have as far as I know only in MPLS TP but MPLS TP does not use IP encapsulation at all so what else well the document bid we have we have very good discussion about procedure of using LSP pink and I appreciate the Carlos and Jeff clarifying that the concern they have is that the mechanism of using BFD reverse path to V in conjunction with a VFD discriminator and the changes so basically when to use and how to use that yes it was implied in the document they need to make clarification and we offers we agree that there need to be clear statement that explains what is expected from LSR that supports this mechanism how to process us being with the same being the discriminator and the University will be so basically that they must be prepared to receive repeated LS beeping with the same beanie discriminator if the reverse path to be is present and we are ready to make this update and along other updates that working group of suggests currently Nutella Cisco Greg in the interest of correctness what you just said is incorrect you just said that 50 84 say that you can use an LSP return path if they\u0027re crowded I think that\u0027s what you said no means know if it\u0027s bi-directional bi-directional LSP thank you that is incorrect that is not what 58 84 says 58 84 and you know I brought this just to be very explicit it says I mean "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:47",
    "text": "I copied on my slide price but it says or the BFD control packets and by the egress al-azhar to the ingress eleazar may be encapsulated in an MPLS stack full period then it says this may be the case if the effect for which the fault detection is being performed corresponds to it by directional LSP or an MPLS to the wire this may also be the case when there is a return LSP from the ingress eleazar to the ingress eleazar right so basic says you can do it as long as you have an LSP back no we are provide the mechanism to make it deterministic okay any the questions so Carlos based on your review and the responses you have do you think there is a possibility to actually converge on a viable draft in the color near future Carlos pignataro like I said before law is not up to me it\u0027s up to the working group I mean that working group care is there support do they I mean the comments for from the directory that I that I made or as much for you as for the authors as for the least on the line by line response that I saw half of the things are an answer and the other half are either being understood the comment or or the some additional disconnect I don\u0027t know how else to answer the question okay yeah thank you Jeff I was I I have three comments and while these reiterates other things Carlos said but in the slides problem number one is whether the mpls working group thinks this is a useful problem to solve no obviously this is something you all have to do amongst yourselves problem number two no there\u0027s technical issues within the document themselves in terms of how this is actually no address no feedback from Carlos and the other people can help the document be better if the first one is the group says yes if not why would you spend time if you want to take it to the independent submission track that\u0027s one potential but if you\u0027re trying to do this in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:47",
    "text": "MPLS group answer that first question the third point is that minimally with what you\u0027re looking to do this it would imply fifty eight eighty for procedural changes so even if you get the things resolved and the second piece we\u0027re probably going back to bf to get a 50 40 50 80 for update so there are three things that have no increasing levels of specificity my suggestion is to tackle them in that order okay thank you okay so thank you everyone yeah I think the working group one group chat had to go back and think and kind of formulate a question to the working group how we want to proceed on this okay Mac you up next okay hello this transition is about update today are speaking for la interfaces okay here\u0027s a history of audit rap Darrell Iverson individual submit in 2014 and it was experienced several generation before it was adopted as a working contract and there\u0027s none of knowing understanding the issue and Commons addressed a burger the draft has adopted by the working draft in that innocent year and the job after adopted or in court wrapped it has been there for over two years and this year has requested by the co-chairs I\u0027m joined to don\u0027t try to move to move this work forward well here\u0027s a recoilless wrapped so the trap is motivated by an issue that is encountered in a in an I blame work and it is required to do validate wider and it\u0027s being traversed over specific member link of a lab tends to in to isolate where is a filler point and the socialist question multi straightforward and a first step we can the two are two servings is used to discovery to discover all member link of lag and relevant informations and then we can use the relevant Commission\u0027s to validate whether our experience traversed over age or over a specific "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:48",
    "text": "member link by using the DDM app at curvy so yeah yes as I said there\u0027s no substantial update since it was adopted and the changes made to the perhaps the main editorial changes and some object to the references so yeah we really appreciate more what incorporate the news on the trap if there are any comments on issue and we were each orbit and familiar for the altars as in we\u0027ve lived at the drug may be is it stable and he\u0027s ready for looking good let\u0027s call okay can I ask this is the draft that is about three and a half years old something like that that\u0027s a working group that how many sites you read this stuff we have a few and four five six people so I agree with Mike we appreciate much more working group review on this though we probably have to figure out how to do that maybe she has triggered an early review routing Directorate to get comments on the list that\u0027s a probably best to do okay okay thank you okay thank you and now it\u0027s harsh no it\u0027s good so one thing about Stewart presentation I think you do need to talk about four different drafts yes so the procedure will we only list it free but begin to discuss for anyway so again ah the agenda yes that\u0027s only listed free drafts idea so if anyone has an objection to that please stand up and kind of walk out for something are we doing to talk about the old four draft anyway I\u0027m gonna talk about his status actually so the appeal is flow identifying draft has finished we\u0027re here at last call lower picked up some minor points when he was writing the Shepards report a stale reference and a minor issue with with Ayanna for completeness I\u0027ve addressed the the issue in the text and I will upload it after this meeting or before the end of the week so that\u0027s pretty well done as far as the working groups concerned the SFL framework went through MPLS QA and an interesting problem was raised I\u0027ll "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:49",
    "text": "go through the status then I\u0027ll come back to what that problem was it completing the IPR poll and it\u0027s now in working reproduction polls so please comment the RSV RFC 60 374 SFL draft again as have been adopted as a as a working group draft there are seven in Section seven there are a number of methods of making measurements which I really would like some review from the working group on and in particular which ones to pursue to to completion if the answer is all of them then we\u0027ll presume all of them but it would be good to have sir a triage review to make sure that with their all needed and of course feedback on anything else will be welcome so really it\u0027s a request for please comment on the draft and and help the authors in terms of direction to steer it SFL control and this still describes just the basic standalone control plane it really needs to be integrated with the other MPLS control planes I\u0027ve said this several times and much to my shame haven\u0027t done anything so in easily integrated with LDP rsvp-te BGP and the signal routing control plane we also need to put some components in it to control it via Sdn and if anyone\u0027s interested in helping with the text their input would be welcome so the issue that arose you know can you go back yes for a clarification point when you see BUP is it 3107 you\u0027re talking about yeah when we use yeah so the issue that arose during review was around ecmp and this thought to a my certainly to my attention and I should have spotted it earlier a limitation in RFC 67 90 which is the entropy label draft in that the inclusion of an entropy label still allows an LSR to include other label in other labels in the entropy calculation although it does not prohibit the it does prohibit the use of SPLs from the calculation so the point is that I think I had kind of naively expected in my sort of dyslexic reading of this at the draft over the years that when you had any ale in there that\u0027s how you did the the low balance but there are implementations that take a more aggressive approach and load balance on that and other things as well and this is a problem because any path subject to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:51",
    "text": "a CMP the packet path may change the inclusion of the exclusion of s as SFL in a way that I hadn\u0027t been expecting so there was some discussion and I\u0027m Matthew helped with this that we we made two sort of changes to the to the text during the review process and the key text is that if this approach is adopting the intervening MPLS Network must not load balance on any packet field other than the entropy label note that this is stricter than the text in our of in section 4.2 of RFC 67 90 so that is to say we would have to verify about one means or another that that condition was applied before it would be safe to use this to be sure that the go and return paths were identical cuddling the ferrule see Stuart what do you think in Brock these are the chances of that happening well of you knowing that although nodes are conformed to this hmm well I guess if you were doing a new deployment then you would know and you would probably have to take a judgment call if you didn\u0027t know as to whether you cared or not I guess the question is so let me rephrase how important of a limitation it is to the to the overall document because I think it might be hard to actually even know you know whether this is the case presumably Arusha would know whether it did it and so we could get the Richard advertised what is whether it was strictly entropy label only or was maybe otherwise so in order to signal you\u0027re saying there\u0027s an opt-in signaling which needs to fill this requirement yeah you probably have to announce that you fulfilled this in order to allow you to do that thank you so anyway it works if if you\u0027ve got Reuters on the path that only do entropy label it has difficulty when you have reuters that decide to you the entropy label as a with together with a bunch of other information and I\u0027m not sure where any whether it makes sense to have Reuters do both but some of them do so we would need continuing from Carlos\u0027s point we would need LSS to signal whether the whether they were using ili only or they were using other factors as well and we would need to consider whether we need to look at the text in RFC 67 90 since I\u0027m sure there are cases where we would like PL to be the only director of of the CMP process "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:54",
    "text": "and I think there was something certainly some discussion by Eric along those lines through Rosen during the in this discussion along the lines of why does it make sense to load balance on anything other than the Yale when the eel is in there so that we ran with it yes I think there\u0027s one question from so go ahead yes I just wanted to make famine or routers reporting whether or not they do these things at least in some older Cisco equipment whether you do such things or not dependent on specific line cards and in the very very worst case it\u0027s dependent on both the ingress and egress lines so so getting some things to report this could be very difficult but Jewishly would be on wouldn\u0027t those riches also be unlikely he don\u0027t know balancing anyway yes and that\u0027s precisely the other comment that I wanted to make is that Stewart said I don\u0027t know why he would load balancing something the other than the e Li and that\u0027s because that\u0027s the only thing they know but if the stack depth that there operating on also includes the Li than the e Li Mei you know depending on the stacked up D Li may or may not influence the path no it\u0027s a bit more complicated occasion for blekic my understanding is that there isn\u0027t Reuters that Li so I didn\u0027t quite apparently that there exist which is the and other labels sorry in most cases ok so that\u0027s what yeah behavior that people weren\u0027t expecting okay any other questions thank you George thank you so next up is Harris "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:56",
    "text": "[Music] hi my name is Hari Sitaram so presenting an update to this one version of this draft so we presented the first version of this draft last idea and just to give a quick recap it basically was coupling our SOP t control plane with certain aspects of said marauding MPLS forwarding plane to quickly recap what it did basically allocated unique Poplarville for te link of an interface and then it utilized label stacking on the ingress so the RSO pingers would actually stack a set of labels for each labels operation was to pop and forward at every transit link we also introduced the concept of delegation of labels label stack in position we briefly alluded to the fact of how one could automatically delegate label stacks but we didn\u0027t have time to add more text to it so this draft this update actually adds a lot of text about delegation we get into details of automatic delegation and explicit delegation we also have section separately on constructing label stacks how a transit could construct able stacks how in just the construction of stacks what would it produce we have new co-author directs and we also have George holo both of them of contributed to the draft and based on the feedback in how authors so with the delegation of label stack in position so the idea is to manage the stack and position depth of ingress so platforms may have limitations of how many labels it could push if the platform can push up all the labels that can carry the packet all the way to the egress then much of what we are talking about today is in as relevant because well you can push all the labels so might as well push them in the even that you are unable to push we have two different approaches one is called automatic delegation and the other one is explicit delegation so with automatic delegation you actually allow the transit routers to actually automatically select themselves as delegation hops with explicit delegation you think Russ actually ingress or any part compute engine can actually specifically dictate certain transit hops the B delegation cocks so take their example on the diagram so D and G are like delegation hops and they say it\u0027s okay for instance let\u0027s assume for a moment that it can push only three labels can actually push a packet with 200 300 and 350 Packer gives to D D can push another three levels Packard gets to Gigi can push another three labels packet and get to J so the labels are D and G which are marked red are actually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:57",
    "text": "what are known as delegation labels so des da d and g allocate these labels for the LSP so here from a signalling extension point of view the rro label sub-object that we have we\u0027ve taken a bit out of it and asking for a delegation label bit and in the we also have a bit allocated and attributes flag TLV that if it can be carried either in the hop attributes or it can be carried in the LSP attributes so if you were to carry it and LSP attribute it would be automatic delegation so the ingress is actually requesting automatic delegation throughout the LSP if you were to carry it in the hopper attributes the ingress is basically saying I pick D and G I am going to specifically it\u0027s a part hop attribute so I\u0027m specifically asking D and G to become delegation hops right so two different flavors on how you do delegation automatic and explicit with respect to now that we have two different models of delegation you could actually start the labels in different ways so this basically is a slide talks about stacking only up to reaching a delegation half so the ingress only wants to reach to the first delegation of any transit delegation hop on until he wants to reach up to the next delegation up so in this example you have a person you know puffin forward tunnel from a to J let\u0027s assume the delegation hops are DNG our ingress and at all the delegation hops the label stack includes the next delegation illegal so if you look at the stack the red labels from a it only reaches up to D and D in fact takes the packet up to G \u0026 G takes the packet up to J so this is one way of stacking and we have another way of stacking where you can the ingress can actually stack a packet all the way to the egress in this case the ingress actually includes all the delegation labels in its own label stacks and the transit does not include any delegation label in it label stacks so if you take the diagram a actually in this example the difference between the previous one if you look at a it only has three 5650 is at D here 350 and 650 are at a and at B actually 650 is already in the packet that\u0027s arriving from C so this allows ingress to actually stack the packet all the way to the egress of course now that you have two different ways of stacking the labels you actually have to wait have a way to let the transits know please don\u0027t start the next delegation label in the stack so by default if we only if you use the LSP attributes we do automatic delegation this way to automatic delegation the transit routers by default going to take this approach so it\u0027s the transit routers are going to each router only tries to reach up to its next delegation if we want the ingress to actually do the complete stacking then we can we include another bit in the label LSP attributes bit where the ingress can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:58",
    "text": "actually signal telling the transits please don\u0027t include the next label in the delegate please don\u0027t include the next delegation label in your stack because I\u0027m gonna include all of them a name in dhingra\u0027s so this different to different ways of stacking it so so how do the how does in automatic delegation how to hop out at the hops first of all pick themselves up like how did they are to delegate themselves so in this example we can still assume from the earlier examples to stay consistent DNG or delegation hops we introduce a per hop attribute basically we\u0027ve introduced in the hop attributes object upper half attribute says it\u0027s signal in the path message and ingress basically populates it with maximum labels that it can actually push how much ever it can push and each successive hop actually decremented by 1 ah it also looks at its own limitations it could look at its own outbound limitation it could look at its own inbound limitations and then it can decide to not increment it by decremented by 1 but it can actually set it to something else and so if a node is reached where you know the incoming ie TLD is actually one that node actually selects itself as a delegation hop once it selects itself as a delegation hop it again follows what ingress used to do it sets the e TLD out to the maximum value going out of the box that you can push and pushes the packet out by the time the packet reaches the egress all the legation hops have been picked already so so that\u0027s how the delegation the TLD mechanism is used in the signaling to actually make this work for automatic delegation specifically for automatic delegation so yeah I mean maybe next steps we actually have have to add some text for node protection we have a bunch of big set we are asking for specifically six bits sitting in different attributes so request early allocation of Ayana code points feasible and just time based on the comments that we receive last time and the response we saw request working group adoption hi probably stupid question or CPT doesn\u0027t stack labels it swaps labels per hop but where does it come from maybe I\u0027m missing something how are you going to stop labels in their CPT case how many labels can be there an orbiting planes for example one example could be a platform could have a limited fifth size so RS we could potentially still scale way past you know he\u0027s not limited by the number of labels that are needed in the stack so in this example for it for instance the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:00",
    "text": "forwarding plane actually is more decoupled from the from the control plane the forwarding plane only has as many labels as a number of interfaces or neighbors on that box as opposed to if you had say 30,000 LSP is across a node you would need 30,000 labels today so with this you only need number of labels asked for the number of interfaces or neighbors on that box and so you could one other way is you can come or decouple it from the FIB size capabilities of any box the real use case and today\u0027s heart we\u0027re not certain a that\u0027s not the primary motivation though that\u0027s one of the motivations others are basically you can cut the amount of web state you actually need all the chatter that hack occurs between a control plane to data plane so thank you can you last slide lastly the Deborah earlier location is only for working with documents all right I can\u0027t do it an individual and Deborah yeah it has to be a working group document because one of the rules is it should be somewhat stable right you shouldn\u0027t just be requesting names and then with a high probability of completion it\u0027s very stable working group document that\u0027s a yes yeah so what my conclusion here has done that earlier location is a little bit premature in this case we have to wait until we have a and accept adopted working group document and actually a fairly convinced that the document is stable enough to allocate to point four so they\u0027re appreciated you bring it up on on speaking of a quarter so that\u0027s reason why you asked for option because we would like to see early allocation of core points so I don\u0027t know if I got you correctly yeah yeah but you can\u0027t ask for earlier location for an individual draft but that\u0027s next finalist request working reproduction lurches ah yeah I understand the the point though is that we have the high probability hurdles to get over also so we are not going to do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:02",
    "text": "it in the order we have done the slides we are going to do you\u0027re going to updated are beginning to go through the process for working group adoption and see where that leads and if we have a stable working with document damla can develop asian that\u0027s what i what i want to make okay you done so thank you so now we should have had Cameron talking about ml DP and LDP gang models Cameron is one of those that can\u0027t travel at the moment I don\u0027t really know why so sue thang you have lost like 10 minutes to represent the work going on on ldml repeat yang and Shifu who can you provide it to the area DP young an American young model so since last ITF session we had a few discussion meetings but we have not got chance to submit the updated draft so here\u0027s the discussion we had we decided to too few changes we decide among those authors and contributors we want to simplify the policies specified in the model so here we will move currently existing in the pace model the expressive nam control policy move that into extended and also we will remove a few combinations about the policies so we\u0027ll take out the yeah police say a global level and we\u0027ll keep the PF agile family policies but we moved all ideas families from the global and the from not appear global and we also have said this document to doctors for review and we haven\u0027t contributed back there working on that we felt a few questions so welcome to answer those questions and the work with the adopters completely review and address any with your comments so here are the pending items so we need to complete there\u0027s a default "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:04",
    "text": "values and we done completed the young doctors review to try Technic comments then we need to update the model to be an MVA compliant we when we need to use a state model also the next step we\u0027ll publish a new version of the document after that when once we have lost rest of issues will to ask for the last call another document here will be the I\u0027m ready P so again we have an occurrence to update the document but we also had a few discussions we decided to change the configuration model section and also we can update notification so here is the change we have already decided to so we are here is we can see will expand it okay we expand the configure the nearest thing is we used to be able to only handle one particular topic type which is a RT now we will add other object types like transit and the biter so actually in this change will also take care of the second bullet here so make the recipe confusion and state model consistent because on the state section we already have those the different object types handled and I\u0027m also planned to change a notification again here we expand with the epoch types not only including previous existing LSP ID but also covers a transit and by der some are open items you cause people value and updating to the nmda style and then we\u0027ll publish a new version to trace those issues and then to the inductor renew and then we can ask for Lascaux so the items we have any questions okay so a comment on the gang doctor review we had our wires crossed so we recursively undock review a little bit late we got or the gender of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:05",
    "text": "Santos and male and we actually failed to recognize that they were there what that male was so we didn\u0027t respond and that\u0027s I don\u0027t know why we are cutting people are too busy doing too many things really I think that came the question came is the late so problem we could be father died Thailand so we didn\u0027t have the medium argue light so we didn\u0027t have chance to discuss but we are on track now and we will resolve those issues as soon as we can any other questions okay so thank you thank you okay I think it\u0027s too late we don\u0027t start a new presentation now we take everything on Friday who hasn\u0027t signed the blue sheets anyone who hasn\u0027t son the blue sheets comes up here and sign the blue sheets our than that see you on Friday at 10:30 the same room is on the agenda time is different 10:13 do you write and the second blue sheet is still missing so where is it who has a second one [Music] parang can you look at the last row and shares if there is a blue sheet laying over there you "
  }
]