[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "This is not your flight. So there's a sheet there with a QR code on it that's also outside the door. Could you make sure all of you have scanned it, please, either outside or here it's equivalent. So, should be recorded that in your group. That your room is oriented. Correctly. On the planet so that so that's in the correct place. We're gonna stay in places us. Viable support I if anyone could do it, Miteshko could. Yeah. Just someone pointed out to me that, you know, we never give a plug to Mitecco in this stuff. Do you think how this whole thing runs and I don't have to touch the keyboard and stuff just works. You know, thank me Metecco folks. They often wear Metecco shirts. If you want this in your meetings, you know who to ask Yes. It's David, if this was me decking what would work, Well, I I ran meetings long before this, and we would switch laptops and that be incompatibility between everything. We'd waste 10 minutes of every meeting. Messing with something. You know? So Anyway, I mean, cameras manually. So they have their layer somewhere,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:07",
    "text": "surprised to meet you. You can watch it here in the room and it's Yeah. Well, that chicken, I think, thank thank the knock for. So anyway, let's, let's get the meeting started. I have slides up that's working. We've got transcription working. We've got video working for our remote participation. So I think we're good. As always, in an IETF meeting, everything we say here is by the note well. The oversimplification of it is anything you say here is contribution. In the IETF and covered by various RSCs that you see there. We like to live our code of conduct this is respect and courtesy to people at all times. Try to be impersonal. You know, you're talking about a draft, not a person. We look for solutions that meet everyone's needs, and, We try to all contribute to the work of the group. So meeting details. I'm Margaret. That's Valerie on the screen. And we are the chairs of the working group Paul is not here. And, it might come by. He might not Fence with LC is going on. He's our responsible AD. You can see all the URLs there, you can also find them through the agenda page. Blue sheets, like did that. We need a zulip scribe anyone willing to be our zulepscribe? Case people write to Zulip I can monitor the chat."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "Okay. Great. And we need 2 note takers. Who are willing to take notes in the notes app. We don't get to have a meeting unless we have 2 notetakers. So I know Alan's looking at me and saying, I'm gonna be talking half the time. Okay. Fine. Anybody who is not gonna be talking half the time. Okay, Michael. Anybody over there, notes takers, I need 1 more. If Well, while I talk and I'm really busy. I mean, user usually, I Yes. I will definitely Okay. Sounds good. Our agenda today. First thing is gonna be, Jan Fred talk about the D TLS encryption veradias, that document, we'll talk about the status of that document during the talk. Radius version 1.1 will be Alan. That document is, I think, just been accepted as a working group work item officially. But is also approaching working group last call. So The the the Adopting it as a working group document had a little delay at the end because we to send the official mail. So, And then COA and radius, already went through last call and is, no, not COA. TLS PSK. That's not even being talked about here because it already went through last call. And is, in what's called Shepherd's review. Getting ready to send it to Paul who did walk in. That's Paul. If you wanna Doctor. AD. COA will be presented deprecating and secure practices in radius. These are all working group work items at this point, even if their names don't reflect that, I believe. And then there's an item that not a working group item."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:03",
    "text": "Status realm, and I'm not a 100% sure we have a talk on that because I didn't get slides. So people don't get to talk it on sending the slides. And then, radius accounting assurance is a presentation from the I think it's is it the WBA also? And they wanna come and talk to us about accounting and what's going on with accounting. And then That's it? Just recently on 7th, so too close to this meeting to be a topic on our agenda, we received a liaison letter from the Wi Fi the wireless broadband alliance. And, This is about, signaling AP location for wifi roaming. The document was made available to us in the email. So you can go and actually read the document. They're their documents aren't public, but we have a copy It includes radius signaling of the locate of a mobile device, IE, a person, within about 10 meters. It gives Civic street address information and GPS coordinates. Potentially. It does note that this has significant privacy and security implications. But it least my opinion or, you know, we don't know what the working group's opinion is yet. It doesn't then specify all of the follow ons from that about What type of security is needed? As I said, it was too late to have a deep discussion here. It wasn't in by the 2 week deadline. But there has started to be some discussion on the list. And I'm wondering and this is in a way at question for Paul as well as the working group. How should we produce? I mean, they said it's a formal letter. We probably produce a consensus working group response."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "And and if if we should do that, The follow on question is, how should we do that? So Let's first discuss if we should do that. Yep. Yep. Follow about this AD. Yeah. We should we should definitely think about our response, but I actually wanna pull some more IESG people to, before making final decisions. So let's let's definitely talk about this. But if people wanna discuss this more on the working group so that we I have as much information as I have to talk to the IST, and we'll see how to deal with their response. Right. And then that's pretty much what I said is continue mailing list discussion. And then I was thinking there might need to be design team or something because I think we'd wanna call in people outside this room. Like, even though they sent it to the Reddx Working Group, I'm not sure. The Radix Working Group is the only part of the IETF that might have an opinion on this subject. So, so we will I will coordinate with you after the meeting, Paul, about you know, how you want us to come together on something like this. I'm So I guess worth contact. This work is, used for emergency calls, perhaps, for natural use calls over those IPs. So I think this is a useful thing. The original RFC in the IETF, which there already is 1, talks about emergency calls. This is actually very much focused on moving you to the type of connectivity they wanna you to have in the location you're in so they can know like they can move you from a cell tower to, metro Wi Fi, to a low Wi Fi depending on where you're located. And know if you're moving away from that space and they have to move you. So if they'll put you on your home when you're home. And then when you're moving out of your home, they'll put you on the metro or the cheapest to them by they can give you properly Hi. Well, whatever. The one the one your ISP wants you on. This is Alan. Some of this is also geolocation for things like events."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "If you're in the event, you get access. And if you're physically out of the event, you do not there's also at, localized advertising, I think. Advertising billing. All this kind of stuff. Okay. And right now, It this isn't really I mean, I I don't know. We wanna how much we wanna discuss this. We do have some time in our agenda, but don't want us to turn into a 20 minute talk, but Right now, your ISP already kinda knows where you are. Okay. This isn't about whether your ISP knows you are. The question is, did they do a good job of signaling that over radius and, you know, it's a very complicated document, and it's not something I feel I can have a technical discussion on. I Alan's probably read the whole thing already, but we don't have technical discussions on things that came in, you know, the 1st days of the meeting, typically. Okay. We've got people in the queue. Oh, Bernard, are you participating remotely. I didn't I didn't catch you. Okay. You're up. Just a correction. It is not used for emergency calling. There, that's specified by regulatory agencies, the original work that probably the people to talk to, the people who worked in GeoPRib, like advocacy editor, of the stuff, but for Geopriv. So, like, Alyssa Cooper would very involved in in all that stuff. And those are the people to to talk to. Yeah. That's that's a good point. I was just saying the original RFC that had these things over radius said it was for emergency calling. But this document the liaison doesn't list emergency calling at all. So That's that's what I was trying to say. Apparently, not very Yeah. With it I think we were confused at the time. It was never adopted by regulatory sees. This this is something that's very strictly controlled legally, and it's never used anywhere from total Okay. That sounds I mean, you would know. So Was there there were two people in the queue, but some under up to us. I guess we're we're done with that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:05",
    "text": "So, okay. So on to the next thing. Which is the D TLS biz document. So yeah. Hi. I'm Janfred. And I have the perfect t shirt for this graft. Yep. So, We are talking about the, products radius detail as best draft. You can go to the next slide. Since the last meeting, at ITF11 7 of Thank you. We had, Working group adoption call finished, the working group 0 version is published we had some changes that were very significant, as we discussed in the meeting in San Francisco and thereafter on the mailing list, we've updated the trust model that we require to have, Certificate based, Mutual authentication and PSK mandatory to implement for servers, clients can choose one of them. As mandatory transport, TLS and the details mandatory to implement for servers. Clients can again choose to implement one or the other. With both recommendation to implement both, but if they have good reasons for not doing that. Then they can choose. We have updated the text on start a server, keep a life mechanism all around that. To mandate status server now I think the old RFCs did not mandate it. They just recommended it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "I have added security considerations, which were basically copy paste from the old RFCs. And, as discussed, reference the, TLS best current practice. For ever anything TLS version and Safasweet and TLS related stuff. Yeah. Is it working? It's not working. Okay. So, what's still needed the the to dos that are in the in the draft, we have not yet any text around session resumption. I'm not exactly sure what the the right thing is we should say that, any suggestion. Oh, welcome. We have have the request, I think, in on guidelines also into the draft. Also not exactly sure what to say there. Maybe some one can provide some text there. With the new security considerations, we also to reiterate them is everything there that should be there. Can we remove some obvious or some sections that are now covered with the TLS BCP draft, and we can just drop a pointer. And also there are some things in the security considerations that might be worth moving to a normative section like, the migration path from UDP to tier radius TLS or radius detail has a few, capital must in there. Maybe it's worth moving that way from the security considerations. Section to some operational Consideration section. We have some small to do still in the document. They should be easy to fix for example, we have the CA indication in the, 6614. So in the TLS,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "standard in for DTS, there is no CA indication. Maybe we should add that there. We have the name PSK identifier, I think, in the old drafts. There was, it was called the TLS identifier. I'm not exactly sure. I think the name was just wrong. Port multiuse subnets, all these is marked as to do in the draft. So that should be there. Next slide. So at that point, I think the document with the small fixes should be ready, but Let's take a step back now because we should ask ourselves the the question again, what problem do we want to solve? Why did we start this document And do we actually have that thing that we wanted from the beginning. So what we want to avoid is to have this document published as an sea. And then in 2 years, we have a ton of errata and need a new peace document because we forgot something. So what do we need to finish this document and to have it actually ready to, submitted to the ISG. Is basically we need a checklist. So First, we need a thing a list of things that were wrong with the old RFC. So, 6613 is radius. TCP 6614radius TLS and 7360 is radius. D TLS. So that list, we can take off then and check if the new document actually has all the issues that we had with the old document fixed, And then we need a list of additional features that we need for the new radius the TLS draft. Which is a list that we can check to see if we actually need this new document and that it's not just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "or that that it's, really better to publish a new document merging or they 3 draft uh-uh, RFCs and we don't just and we shouldn't just republish the original RFC with the IRata worked in as a new document just in the standard's track So that's a thing that we want to do, and I think I've referred to the chest in a minute to to talk about how we progress from there. And I think I have last slide of open issues from my point of view if we have this list finished and everything's checked, then we should publish this document. I mean, the Working group schedule expects this in January 20 24. I'm not exactly sure if we can hold that deadline. We can try. So, the, the, deprecating secure practices depends on this because, if we haven't finished that document, then we can't really expect people to just shut off, Grady's UDP and migrate to something that's may maybe changing still. We have one open dependency at least for now, for dynamic discovery, that's still an experimental draft. I think right now, I have this as a normative reference in this. So it would be a down ref. I have quite a number of, reference issues that are, that that the ID and its tool screams at me that they are not right. Maybe we should reiterate them also and, decide if that's okay. Maybe some normative reference can be informative references. It's the 1st graph that I have that is this far along in the process. So I'm not really experienced with that And I think with that, I'm finished. And we can go into the discussion about,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "what is still need to do. And How we go on from here? So, to just, to put a little context around, our Our milestones in our trucker do say January There's a harder limit on this, in June of, 2024 because this is needed as a standards track reference by my fire lines. But the hope is that we'll have it out in plenty of time, and we won't be having last minute you know, issues with trying to hit it out in time for that deadline Some of the stuff that Yannfred said came out of some stuff issues that I raised is we have very few issues open with this document. One could almost think it's, like, ready to go to working group last call. Except people had more, like, when we said, well, can we just write a short document? Sending TLS to standard stack. People are like, no. There's all these wrong with the document that have to be fixed. Well, they haven't been fixed. So why do we have no issues against this document? Right? We should have all those issues against this document. It may be, Jan, for a newer few of them and fix them, but not all of them. I don't. So where are they? Where is that list? I think, maybe you're gonna talk about putting up some GitHub stuff. Where are we? Bernard. Oh, Bernard, you're in the queue first. Yeah. So, just a question. Usually, you know, the WFA, they do fairly extensive tests, and it's often a great way to get bugs in issues when they have to do all the tests and they'll ask you questions about stuff. So that might be one way of of stimulating this review is is don't you don't have to be shy. You don't have to be, like, completely done to get into the WFA process and the feedback from them. Like, you know, we got feedback on either to security way way way before we were done. So that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "that's a re you should consider it a resource. I don't know if there's anyone in the room or in the work group that's liaison to WFA or is working with them? Do we have any actual liaisons to WFA? Wi Fi Alliance? Or, like, just an informal person? No. I said WFA in this case. I Yeah. Yeah. Wi Fi lines, Paul Pulvatos80, so I I was actually just chatting in the background with the IAB and a parent we do not have liaisons, but we do send back and forth liaison statements to each other. Okay. So Yeah. Tommy, Northeast Stanley can help. She she I mean, I think when we think it's pretty much ready, which will hopefully be in the next month or 2. It would be good to tell them we think it's pretty much ready. And would you review it before we finalize So thank you, Bernard. Alan? Yeah. This is Alan. So one of the things I I talked about Margaret yesterday in order to push this forward I will take a task on putting 6613, 6614, 7360, up on GitHub. There's a Radx organization there. And then we can start opening issues on that. I believe we wanna do it on GitHub and not anywhere else because they're not really erratic. Don't wanna file them through the IETF. It's just this is the working groups discussion on on what to fix. Yeah. So I'll I'll do that next week. Yeah. And put one up for the main document too in case people have issues with that aren't on one of those other ones. I think I can bring up my issue then on the on the gateway. So Can bring it up here. Okay. It's it's a focus on the radius we want 1.1, I think, because there's some discussion missing about the use UDP source ports. There's a section 63 where you, said You have to use a proxy if you have multiple client instances."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "That want to talk to one server. That's something right now, we are using the so UDP source port to extend the ID So you have more than 256 outstanding requests. And, the section 6 fish appears to discourage that usage I I think the the the idea of that section, it I'm I'm not exactly sure, but I think that that is the if if you have multiple radius clients on one host user proxy, idea behind that sec yeah. The the idea behind that section is that you have one piece of software on the on the device that can do all the failover stuff. And if that piece of software decides to open t UDP source ports to maximize the the, ID space, then that's the decision of that proxy, that soft software, but the idea is not to have the the the configuration effort on all this client software, but that you can have 1 central, server where you can put all the policies in these local, of course, a proxy is only one way to do it. You could share those information between those clients. But I I don't use middle just a bit misleading here. So, Yeah. Okay. I don't I don't think that there are any must statements in there. So if you choose to I've heard it like, okay. I can't trench the US, U. P. Salesforce. Okay. We'll we'll look into into the the the wording there and and reiterate that. Thanks for your input. Yeah. Probably. Pop in mouth. Let's switch, Just a few results from the hackathon, need some interrupt testing with WBA of roaming. Basically, The certificate validation of server certificates is mess. So if I'm honest, I think during the hackathon,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "we simply turned off. Certification to get it to work. I I I did say something about this. Do not rate and and EAP. Yeah. So basically, this, I think in in the graph, it's it's section 41 summer certificate validation. You should look at this in more detail. There even was just 2 days ago, they published, RFC 95, 25. Service identity in TLS we should probably reference that document and follow it the advice they give you on what to specify in your own document. The one thing I kind of mixed in the I'm not sure. We definitely define how to validate the service certificate. What's not in this is how to issue. Server certificates under what to put in there. I guess this would be in the dynamic discovery. So what is 75, 85, which is experimental at the moment. So defining how to validate it is one thing what's we should also define what to put in there. Otherwise, interrupt is going to be still a mess. To make sure we don't lose those, could you Once Alan sends the GitHub locations to make sure that gets in to get as issues, even if you don't have answers for it. Possible for wants to specify that. A proposal is even better. I put myself in the list for my my own comment."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "And, I've, you know, there's the the question, like, you know, can we just sort of point to the other documents and say, move that to standards track, move that to standards track. Yahn Fred. You know, on one of these slides pointed out the reasons to have one document, which, are that we can say servers need to implement both. Clients may implement either. And you can't really do that unless you have a document that either specifies or points to both. So, we did already decide in the working group to move to one document and to have those things in it, that what the specific specifications are about who has to implement what. So that's That's one argument for moving them into a sent central document. So that just with my hats off, so that was that, Kari? Yeah, this is car carre hooked on a prob radiator software. So, I wanted to kind of con continue commenting on what pop in set there. And, I have been also doing the very open roaming from the wireless broadband, Allianz side. And I think the we definitely need to kind of check the RFCs and the trusts how, we should do the certificate validation, what to check there, but in that hackathon, the partly problem was that some of the certificates didn't have this kind of, let's say, they didn't follow the current roles, to be used. So they were, for example, missing the CN from the subject of name and all that kind of things. So that caused problems in in the testing but it would be good that they've been retooled these paths, we kind of ensure that we have some kind of clear view how do we validate the certificates there. So, just to comment, try to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "not not specifically you, everyone, try to be very close to that mic when you talk. If you can't hear it, broadcasting, It's not going over to the people who are listening from home. So Alright. Thanks. And, Valerie. I just want to second what Fabienne said about, referring to RFC 9 to 5 25. I'm speaking now as a cochair of future booking group. It was, where it will developed very hard work was put into this document about, several identity So, we just, we might want rely on this work and, use this document, in in this draft and also rely on 70 to 25, which is about, the guidelines for using tables and applications. So Generator guys. Green lines. So That's it. I'll I'll definitely look through those documents again and see what what we can leverage from these documents, to avoid Double specification. Valerie, maybe you can put this in in the chat. Which document for you specifying, 9325. This is, January 25. 93, twin, 25. 9325and9525. 9525 is just was published about a week ago and, or less, it is, a document about specifying server identities in Jonas"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "Are we Anything else on this one, or are we on to the next one? I'm trying to confirm my selection. There we are. So still have your hand raised. Oh, oh, oh, I should undo that. Tada. So Alan, you I think you got the next 3. Right? Yes. Radius 11. Yes. No. Does this work? It did not plugged into your your laptop. That has to be plugged into my laptop. Yep. Whoever who whoever's sharing this line. It doesn't have a I mean, There's no plugging in. There's a do you think with an orange and he has a desk. Too hickey. Orange cable. Nothing. No. Well, I I I And you I worked loose in another room I was in, so I don't there's not even a place to plug it in. In the meantime, I'll ask her to go to I can push this button right here. There we go. So I I on the technical content and less EV, Based on Hickey's comments, re added the radius 10. A p ALPN named the idea there is that it signals. We can do this, but we're not doing it right now. There's a bunch of texts, which is cleaned up and clarify based on everyone's feedback. That helped a lot. And it's shipping as an experimental build. If you go poke the billing system, it's not on by default. It seems to work when it interoperates with itself as for other ones I don't know We I believe most people will be implementing this with open SSL I hope it has to sell well interoperate with itself. So it shouldn't be an issue."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "Status. We have a call for acceptance as working group document. Minor comment from Peter Deacon about clarifications, but no response as suggestion text. So I'm assuming it's correct. We could publish this as experimental independent of the 6614 Biz. Or depending on processes, we could wait for 6614 bids in publish this. As a standard and stomp all over UDP and TCP or benefits and drawbacks to both. The document is mostly finished. So could publish it as experimental tomorrow. Whereas, if we wait for 6614 Biz, It will be 3, 6 months, whatever the time frame is, and it will just be sitting there waiting. Yeah. Just to make it clear, we have an open call for acceptance as a work working group last call. So we couldn't publish tomorrow because we have to wait for the working group. Let's call to finish. But yeah, I think maybe we'll make a call out to the working group to see whether there's consensus to publish it as experimental now or to make it blocking on the, what's now called the DTLS Biz document did you have thoughts on that? Trying to put your hand up. Sorry. Too many tabs on my phone. Pop out the city. If you're publishing this as peramental. Preetu. Make sure to put a time frame in that you think this experiment will last And even if that's like, 6 months and never go to standard, that would be really great. Yeah. Okay. Good. So that we avoid these problems of we've got these ten year old RFCs that we wanna status change on. Yeah. I think it it may be, I don't know what those would be. Is it it's well, I mean, we hadn't used to that long ago, say why they were experimental that's the You know, but now we do. And so if we published it as experimental, it would have to say what what the experiment was."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:04",
    "text": "You know, putting I could raise my hand. Has anyone else raised theirs? No. I I'm gonna not raise and unraise my hand at this time. But for my personal opinion, I would rather we just reference the biz document and wait for it but And, you know, it'd be effectively published. I mean, it through working group last call, it would be waiting in RSC editor Q Land or something for the document references to come along. But I think that I don't think anyone's waiting for it in a formal standards body that needs the red stamp. Do you know what I mean? We it would be done. It would be just is done. When the other document came along, it would get the RFC number that would be my preference. Yeah. I I I'd be happy with leaving this for DTS Biz. One of the reasons is I, I, I think in terms of marketing slash mindshare. It would be better to say it is now standard to not use 30 or all garbage. Much as it seems to sort of work still. I supposed to, we're thinking of not doing it. Yeah. But by the time we get this out of working group last call, into, shepherding through shepherding into the ISG through the ISG into the RFC editor queue, hopefully, we're we're already doing, like, working group less calls on DTLS or something. I mean, I don't see why the with the value of sort of an we short intermediate experimental period would be. Yeah. Okay. But that's just my opinion, not not a chair opinion. Chairs are happy to publish things that is experimental if the working group wants them to. Yeah. Doesn't doesn't matter much to me. Okay. Next next slide set, right, or is there another one in here? Oh, oh, oh, Oh, somebody's here, Bernard. Yeah. I I agree with you, that I don't think there's value that experimental particularly because I think the working group wants us to be implemented along with all the other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "right, like, for the WFA. So You might if it's an experimental status, it'll signal to them, hey. This isn't really of the package, and I don't think you want that. So have it all be standard at the same time. I think it makes more sense. And it nothing Nothing should stop anybody from implementing it, I don't think. Or or if they are stopped, you should talk to them and say, hey. Don't worry about it. Yeah. The the the patches to free radius were 1000 lines of code, So, you know, I I think any large company should get that within a 6 or 6 month or 1 year time frame for new new releases. Yeah. Next presentation, deprecating insecure practices. On next slide. So this is the document that started off as deprecating UDP And TCP transports. And we very quickly realized there was a whole bunch of stuff, which was terrible. Which needed to be deprecated similar to the previous document, it may be worth waiting on DTS Biz to actually publish this, and it would be good to publish this as a standard, Bernard just had a very long review which, I will respond to after the meeting in next week. A lot of good points there. It's not the issues raised about passwords and chat and and this chat. Are not just about radius UDP, they're also about, where you're doing radius over TLS. And then proxying it over radius UDP. Or potentially using TTLS, Closing the T TLS tunnel and then proxying the inner data elsewhere. So it's wherever that data is not protected by T TLS."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "There are all these issues. And it's it's just a lot of small minor feedback. And rewording and whatever. Yeah. I saw that. Thank you, Bernard. That was really awesome feedback. Yeah. One of the the the major changes from 11 Saturn is high. Found, I I hadn't scenes before there was an article that I won't say the name of because it's a little weird. But someone basically breaking MS chat in milliseconds on laptops. So if your passwords were sent over the internet in the last 20 years. And that's chat. Someone knows what what they are. And, yeah, you're all certain things like PEMIS CHOP and whatever. Only do them inside TLS tunnels where nobody has access to on next slide. Are he said all this. Yeah. I added some text on Pat versus chat and password storage. This is a common misconception I run into a lot. Chap is more secure because it doesn't send the password across the Internet. Well, Pat doesn't either. And question is if you have chap. Now your database has to have your passwords and clear text. And what's more likely Someone breaks into your databases and steals 10,000,000 ClearTax passwords or they break into some other network thing and watch to clear text passwords for a path. Go by 1 by 1. There's just there's no question. Path is simply more secure. And there is no document which says that. And lots of articles and websites. And expert alleged things on the net, which say the chat is more secure. And this is a way to get those people to shut up and go, Next slide, please. It's been accepted on as a working group document."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "I believe other than Bernard's comments, it's mostly done. I would like, I think the the best thing here sort of get agreement that it's done. And, again, wait for 6614bis. So I have a personal comment. I think we should stay away from the argument about whether Pat or chap or and just say, don't use either of these. They are both entirely insecure. In as plain text, you know, if they're not wrapped in its own I would very much like to say that. There are, 100 of millions of users user accounts. With encrypted passwords or whatever else. It's It's, given people will continue to use imperfect processes, they need to be told. I believe how to use them properly or better. But I'm sure Bernard has opinions on Well, I I'm more in agreement with Margaret on this because Correct me if I'm wrong, but I think most of that usage is a legacy junk anyway. So, like, you know, I don't even know dial up network. You still are hounded. We finally dumped all that stuff in the landfill. But you know, and and stuff that is horrifically bad. Like some of the EP TTLS stuff that you referred to. So, you know, my question is These are I I more in agreement. They don't send any of these attributes in the radius you know, conventional radius packet and just you know, is there any need to do this, I guess, is my question, you know, nowadays. I I I'm happy to add some text saying something like that. Right? Like, if you have any choice at all, use anything other snapshot, blah blah blah blah blah. But because maybe some of the ed your own people can correct me if I'm wrong. Well, I I was gonna say there are people who are watching this document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "I I have a bunch of hats in the world. So taking off this that and putting on my community architecture for trust and identity chair hat for internet too. We have a group called the EAC under the Cacti, which is, looking into recommended practices for EDgerome and, documenting them, updating and documenting what we wrote a long time ago. And they are looking right at this document to see what the IETF recommends. So that they can recommend it. So say something good. So Yeah. And, like, for edgy room, right, there would never be a reason why you would have to send this these attributes, right, hopefully. My love, mister No. We do have some people who do them, and we would like to be able to firmly suggest that they stop and we're working on that. The more firmly we suggest it in this document, the easier it is for us to make that suggestion. Not that we can't make it ourselves. I mean, I'm not saying we're week, but it's in a document like this, there's no no question you know, we don't have we do have people saying, well, but chat is kind of secure, isn't it? And I'm like, no. I'll echo con stiff and winter isn't here, but I'll a comment yet the other day in from what he's seen in that Durham, there are tens of 1000 of IDPs authenticating users, some of whom have many thousands of customers and a very substantial percent are still using Pete Emma's CHAP V2 or T TLS. It is extremely difficult to 10,000,000, a 100 Yeah. But they don't they that that should never use those. That should So, It shouldn't. It's it's it's always it's all should only be done in EAP. That was guidance that we we gave in, like, 1998. Okay. So so if, yes, if you're talking about inside of EAP, whatever, TGI, whatever. Yeah. But That helps. I do know there are cloud providers who send this kind of stuff across the internet."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "Yeah. That's higher below. Just in plain radius, and they should not do it. We should Cadick. Yeah. Yeah. Michael? To Bernard's point, I believe PPTP is still a thing. Yes. Over IP sec, but what tends to happen is that the IP sec tunnel is is Not well authenticated, Paul can correct me if I'm wrong. But the PPG then has a username password, which the the Nas, the RISE, whatever, passes over with radius, And, of course, everyone thinks, oh, well, that's just all internal traffic, isn't it? Until, of course, it's not. And so there's, you know, very minimal security for that. So I I would say this this This would be a a a useful thing to say. In this. It's also saying, please stop doing UDP Radius, right, which they're doing right now because they didn't know any they haven't changed anything in 12 years. And, I think that that would be useful because it would show up on a auditor port, Right. Right? Or throw away that junk finally. Right? May be the cheapest way to to fix the problem Okay. Okay. So I think the consensus is to add more text saying what to do in one notch. You know, I hope there is no consensus to remove the text on path versus chat and the MS chat. Because it's still worth beating people up over that. It's just clarification since largely addressing Bernard's comments as raised on the list. Okay. Next document Oh, and the final thing I think would be probably weight 46614 Biz. Before we publish the deprecation 1. That way the deprecation 1 can be a standard too. Alan, sorry. We're not in SKU. One last comment from Bernard. Oh, Bernard? Yeah. I I did have one one call on the document, Alan, which is you have kind of an exception for secure network and and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "That this is something that it's just kind of a pet peeve of mind because I remember everyone thinks their network is secure. Like, my kid is above average but, you know, and I've seen it I've seen that excuse you do horrific things. That was the excuse used to send diameter in the clear with security, a whole not even radius authenticator. Right? My network secure, and everyone says that, but that was true, how would we have all these compromises? Right? And And so I I just feel like, is that really a good a good excuse? Did that really get you get you out of wholeness? Probably not. Yes. If people believe their networks to be secure, but my experience has been people don't even check. Right. Right. So it's I just think particularly you know, I think what you want is is like was said, you you want this to show up in an audit, and and you don't get out of it just because you think that your kid is above average. Okay. Yeah. I I think the the the the text in the draft should be fairly clear that With that, we mean just the actual knock we learn that is that we use for management anyway. So I think it's reasonable to to to say, okay, if if that net is actually taken over, then we we have bigger problems than radius. But I think that there should be very strong wording if to to to suggest that this should be only if you really think, anything more secure is not good because Yeah. Your your equipment doesn't support anything other. Say it a different way. If you can point at the two machines and see the wire between them, and maybe a switch. It might be okay. Otherwise, it's almost definitely not a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "with on a crossover cable to do encryption. So But I, But I actually I I agree with Bernard's suggestion because, we get There's a lot. Insecurity. Okay? And it's like, well, it's not always about them cracking your password. Sometimes we're just sending user information in the clear, and when linked with other things in packet it can violate someone's privacy. And, you know, I don't think that everyone goes out and quarries their IT staff before they allow them to see the traffic flowing on the knock. Okay? So just Keep it private. I mean, you know, people will violate us for their one weird special case where there's blah blah blah blah, But let that be a violation. Don't make that an okay thing to do across you campus backbone because you think it's secure. Okay. Okay. I agree now. Next document. Reverse COA. I I still like to have a better name for this because Rivers this because reverse COA really confuses people. This Yeah. I know. Inverse is some inverse COA something. I don't know. Ideas essentially if you can't talk to the if the proxy, say, home if the radio server cannot talk to the Nas because it's behind a firewall not gateway, whatever, but still wants to send COA packets to it Well, if you have a TLS tunnel, to you. Last time, it all goes both ways. Just stuff COA packets down that TLS tunnel. This works for a couple of different vendors. The original proposal had some negotiation, which people didn't like. So all that's gone. And the text really is when you reverse when you're sending package in reverse"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "use the operator name for row for proxy. Until you get to the home network, in which case, it's the home networks problem to get that packet to the final NAS. And there really isn't a lot here. It is COVID. It is implemented. It does work. And this definitely should be experimental because it's a little weird. But extremely useful. The WBA is also watching this because they do have this as an issue. People get on the net and then whatever stolen credit card, whatever, and you cannot kick them off. As a share, I'll comment that if we publish things as experimental today, we need to say, what the experiment is and how long it's gonna go on. I don't think the document says that right now, and you should propose something. With traffic. Regarding to the name reverse where a a bit confusing, I think, and simply call it session reuse. Because it's something. Yeah. I'll So Come on. Go ahead, Paul. Just just a a short comment follow-up because, I guess, sort of his ID, if you go on Slack back, can I do that? Yes. I have the technology it if I if I if I ever have more working groups that say that our main vendors has been shipping this for more than 1 year. We need additional review. I I would be really happy, but maybe you don't need additional review. So The vendors have been shipping this in that they will accept these packets over that TLS tunnel. There aren't many radius server implementation is for that multi chain. Proxying, So we know the basic idea of works."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "It would be good to have 2 interoperable implementations on the radius server side. I see. Okay. I I believe ice may do it. I had to check it. The other co author on the draft and just double check. Okay. So that that seems a good reason for me to say, let's wait and get more, get more, more vendor, more experience, more VP. Okay. Thanks. Yeah. I'll I'll I'll check with, either co author. If it's implemented, Einstein, I'll update this, and then we can just push it out and pick a time, a year, 2 years, or something, and then rev the document after Yeah. I think it's, Not that we just wanna wait around on this document. We have other things that are very pressing. And so this document is less pressing And it's a working group document and it and it I think we're really gonna turn our attention to the DT as much as we can because we need to get that out. It's got other things blocked behind it. It needed by, the WFA. So and there's there's been essentially no it was. It is. This one I believe was accepted as a working Yes. I it was, I think the next slide says that, in fact, but, yes, it was, and it hasn't been rev the name yet, I think. So the next version, he'll probably do that. Yeah. Given the fact that it's essentially no feedback on this. Publish it as experimental and see what happens, see what blows up. We can always fix it with a standard track document. So I, I, I think this would be barring typos and wordsmithing, and I'd be ready to publish now. And the experiment Yeah. Okay. Believe that's it. And then we did get slides? Yeah. Yeah. It's Yes. a huge reason. Just a minor suggestion on the name. How about See you a piggyback Sure."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "Something like that. Yes. That that is a little clearer. Okay. So, we did get slides on the status realm documents. So Mark, are you gonna come present that? Cool. So this was one of our, first and documents for the group. And I have stand way next to the mic. Okay. Of our first documents for the group. I updated it, back before, 17, that failed to get it there. So here we we've got an update here. So we've got some draft updates and a few open questions. Next, Alright. Draft updates. We've got a couple of clerical ones, spelling correction, phrasing differences, naming consistencies. Protocol wise, we've got, status realm, response code numbers were updated. Somebody, noticed on the list that the, response codes were, They had a gap and an overlap that happened to coincide fairly well. Actually, could you go on to the next slide? We, I'm deck it. They documented this, 257 to 260 were decremented since 56 was omitted and 260 was overlapping. So, Hooray, those, that that worked well. Next, Pardon me? Okay. I'm Delta. The server information now has an integer added to it, an integer field named Time Delta. The idea of that is that this is the amount of time that a particular server sees for the round trip when it when it forwards things on."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "You have server a, b, c, d, the time delta, for server C, encompasses all of the time that it took for a times Delta for server b, excuse me, encompass all of the, time in milliseconds that it took for the packets to go from b to c, c to d, d to c, see back to the b. This gives us ping response times effectively. Responding server target server details. It's a server information block about the target realm server. Just broken out into a, into the responding server. It broken out into a separate section, I should say. And I think that was it. Open questions. I did not, get to putting Slice in on the open to one of them was, MTU constraints for the, additional server ID information. I think that was answered on the list. Was suggested that that's not an issue. I'd like to pull the room or get a sense of the room is to whether anybody has any further, further Concerns? Concerns. Yes. Thank you. Okay. Any I don't can we just take any comments on this document at all, or do you have stuff there. I've got another 2, two questions. The second open question I have is, there is a chat, or there was comments about specific, errors for max help counts, specific to the request type, and I could use some help on some of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "because I've only really dealt to a I'm a bedroom person. I've only really dealt with access requests. So I don't actually know COA or, accounting stuff at all. So if there's anything specific, any good responses, I I could use the help. And then, my last point was, or my last open question was, Maxhopcount, There was a, request, I think, from Alan that that, a question about whether that should be only in the status realm or whether that should be in I think this, the, document suggested it should be in access requests packets as well. I think Alan objected to that. It was months ago at this point, I say to Alan who's struggling thinking that he has no idea what I'm talking about. Yeah. Thinking about it some more. There there are good reasons for to be there and not there, mainly as proxy loops. People configure proxy loops. And rather than looking for 300 proxies state attributes. You could look for a max hop count or something. It's I don't know. But there's no good answer in any of this. It's all just trade offs of different kinds of garbage. Yeah. But when you do, as I wanted the of the draft, and this is a comment as one of the authors of the draft When you write a draft, you have to say, what packet types it's allow an option is allowed to be in the question is, do you wanna forbid people to have it in an access, except, or do you want to allow them to have an ax I mean, an access request. And, you know, I could see it being potentially valuable to prevent loops. I don't see it as being the only way to prevent loops, but I don't see why we would forbid it. I I I guess I agree. It it wouldn't cause a problem that may be worth going. I don't know. It's allowed to be there. And whatever means is mostly what it says, but it's up to you. Too bad, too bad. Yeah. So, I mean, some people wouldn't implement it. So, yeah, I mean,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "But, putting back on my chair hat There's been discussion of this on the list. It's kind of run to an end of the discussion, which doesn't mean we're done discussing the document, but at this point, people have kind of had their first pass through it. Just trying to get a sense of the people who are in this room and on the call. I would like someone to tell me how to do a poll. Because it like to do a poll for whether people think this is ready to be this working group document because it's not at this time. But I can't do that unless I can figure out how to do a poll. Show of hands. You could do it. Awesome. Awesome. You go do it. So this is yes, no. Should we accept this document as a working group document at this point? When when he's done poll will appear on your screen. I I mean, most of you have probably seen this somewhere. Tremulent you know, that's that's I have an idea. You have a phone app. I mean, a show of hands has been started click here to show it. Oh, I did something wrong then. Oh, no. There it is. Is now asking you for your opinion. And Showing it on the screen. I yeah. I'm one of the authors. I think it should be accepted as a work group for documents. But as a chair, I'm asking a perfectly neutral question. To which I will express my personal opinion. So seeing here, There's a little bit of uncertainty with someone who went, no, yes,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:03",
    "text": "But, other than that, we have the app you interface, I think needs some help. But, anyway, it looks like the, you know, Revailing opinion is yes, except as a working group document, we will confirm it on the list, and the list. Right. Yeah. Looking Is that where it's were you just agreeing with me? Yes. We'll take it to the list. And, and assuming it prevails there, we will make it a working group work document So Right? Yep. You very much and next up, Next up is, the Radius counting insurance presentation. Ryan, are you hear or on the phone? Yes. Oh, that you're you're on the on my Yes. I can. So Ryan is going to present. I I think I can let you control the slides. Okay. May I open the door to improve air circulation? Sure. If it's quiet out there, great. What, does anyone know how I let him do the slides? Just Did you find I didn't find it. You need to request it, they said. Okay. Is it under I'm just trying to find that button here. Oh, okay. I see it. So Okay. There you go. And, Take it away. Okay. So, Thank you, everyone. This is, so we're I'm involved in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:04",
    "text": "let me just give you a a short background here. This, radius accounting assurance, is a project within the WBA, a wireless broadband alliance, and we basically we're we we deal with misreporting and radius counting So any kind of accounting messages that come in, any kind of accounting sessions that misreport their usage. For example, if if the end user, you know, runs on way Wi Fi network and there's accounting that's generated and this end user used 1 gigabyte but the accounting session reported 5 gigabytes this that would be, you know, an example of this reporting and this is something that we our first. We're flagging. We're trying to set up conditions to flag the accounting sessions, like detect this misreporting first. And then you've find out. You know, work with other groups to to see what we could do about it in in our world and the WBA, you know, roaming worlds, there's often cases where the the person roaming you know, for example, you know, I'm just using this as an example AT and T. I have an T phone, our roam on to a coffee shop and then you know, a certain amount of data is used. And then this is all tracked. But some, you know, some in some cases, the the the person roaming has to pay the hotspot operator per gig. So know, everything that comes out of radius accounting is important to us this, you know, the architects use the gigawatts. You know, the session time, all of that is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "means, you know, something to us and I'll get to to this later. And I I see Bernard has his hand raised Yeah. Well, it's actually important to talk about this because RC2975 describes why Radius accounting is not appropriate for use in situations where packets translate to money and maybe you can get around this by using TCP. If dropping a packet means dropping money, you've got a problem with with financial statements. And and financial regulation. That you can't get around. In other words, and and we'd learned this back in 1975 in 95, and we were trying to company's public. If you're using radius accounting, you're not gonna pass financial standards. So that there's a real the idea that somehow Radius Accounting is used in, you know, in where sessions translate to money. That's a real problem. And you need you need you can't use UDP for that. You're gonna lose packets and luline. And, and that, that's an issue. It's gonna make your financial statements non auditable. Okay. Yeah. I mean, I I I totally understand, you know, the you you know, the e issue there. That I think I'll I think I'll move on but, yeah. So, and thank you. Thanks for that comment. It. So, just one, you know, one background just so on the agenda here, I just I just wanted to show you, like, what I wanna talk about here. So we have a, that's, I'm just first gonna just go over you know who we are and our objectives and then I'll just go through the issues that we've seen in Brady's accounting and I just want to just show"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "the so just some more just some gray areas that we've seen something that you know, this group might be interested in you know, we've also you know, we're also addressing just some of the misreporting I just wanna talk about that a little bit. It just what we've seen in in the wilds here with with the radius accounting just some of the conditions we've seen are just some of the sessions that we've seen that were just unrealistic And then the the last one I don't have a slide for, I just wanted to this is something that we this group might not be as interested in. It's just some documents that we're editing within the wireless property in the lands. So the next slide, just here's just some of our objectives here. We we we we you know, who first want to, know, clarify and understand radius, this is something that we've You have started kind of early this year. This is, you know, the beginning of the year. That's in projects started we just wanna talk or We're trying to bring attention to gray areas and radius accounting. And we also have conducted a vendor survey to see how vendors are implementing things and on their in the accounting world. And, secondly, we we have, it you know, we have some misreporting detection. We have some methods of this reporting detection that with come, that we've the group has, came up with and, secondly, next year, we're actually going to define test cases or testing vendor equipment to make sure that they, are are reporting the correct usage, and, and we're also setting up a defect"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "tracker So just a little bit about us. We have our leadership team is, Tim and and I, terms of AT and T and I'm with single digits. Single digits is a, like, a clearinghouse with we pros process, accounting traffic and radius traffic from pretty much every vendor under the sun. We've been we have hundreds of, access network, hotspot operators, talking to us. And as you know, as you're, well, you're aware of what the AT and T, they're an IDP, an identity provider, but we have a lot of individuals you know, other parts and the the radius flow, the radius path hotspot operators, identity providers, equipment vendors as well. So that's our group. That's who we are. And and, so here on this slide, I just wanna show you some of the gray areas that we've seen The first one, the accounting session ID the accounting multi session ID, we sometimes find it's not unique enough some packets have it you might see is just a simple, you know, few characters and and we we, you know, accounting session ID is important to us, because it it definitely helps us immediate a session and you know, look at you know, correlate, you know, combine all the accounting records together and and and as an extension to that, we the the RFCs are saying that, you know, like, or according to RFCs,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "I think 2865 or a bunch of those accounting session ID is optional in the authentication packets that something that we want that's not listed here is actually we would prefer if it's mandatory and, okay, and authentication as well so we could associate off with accounting so that's that's one of the one thing that we want improved that that would make us that would help us number 2, beginning of, county multi session ID. We've noticed some vendors included, some don't, but there's an, RFC here that's saying that's useful for roaming scenarios, which is which is great and this is something that we've we've kind of clarified through a vendor survey that that they're actually lot of vendors are used in counting multi session ID and and roving and, it's it's consistent throughout the roaming and you know, fast roaming's that's disabled and a new session occurs out for every realm event from 1 AP to another, the accounting multi session states the same, which is which is great. So this kind of was a great area that not anymore through the survey. Number 3, we class echo. We've we've seen some equipment not actually echoing the class this is another thing that helps us that we add to the radius counting. We had the class and it helps us Yeah. Mediate sessions and you know, it's it's some some equipment first of all, it doesn't actually echo the class, and then there's the other problem of the upper limit of how many class attributes are echoed different radius servers in the hop and and, you know, different radius servers would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "radius proxies would add a class but we don't So, you know, with some equipment, has an upper limit and and we're just unclear on what that upper limb is so some kind of clarification here would be good. The number 4, and this is something that came up in the vendor survey sometime there's a, some if there's some kind of internal issue to the AP how could that be communicated through the through the accounting, like if something wasn't calculated correctly. How how could How could they signal that? How could the AP signal that? And we've seen that some vendors at least one would actually set the accounting session time to 0. So just some clarification on this would be good as as well. There's just some internal issues in the accounting here. Next. So this is a just some filter threshold that our our group came up with. We're we're basically just just the, you know, here's just we have 5 filters. We apply them to the to each session. These will the goal here is to detect, impossible or improbable conditions for the accounting this is how we would quote flag a session So, you know, of course, we'll get you know, interims and, you know, we'll get stock records and this is all for mediated sessions, you know, what's the overall usage and and you know, we we do have some you know, Rick's documents that tell us how to mediate session in the CF, for example, if we don't receive a stock record, we take the latest interim you know, as you pointed out, you know, there's you you know,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "UDP packet loss, you know, we we we do have ways to the we don't receive the stop record, we'll take delays into random and we'll take the usage on that, but these all all of these apply to mediated sessions so what we do is we'll apply these 5 filters and this would basically just flag sessions on for unrealistic conditions, you know, for example, the throughput, we just take that. We take the total bytes used divided by session time And we, in this case, you know, 2 gigabits per second. We're not that's an impossible our our group are highly improbable over wifi so we're we're flagging that. Exact giga word if the input an output of gigawatts or greater than 0, but octets are 0. That's another improbable when packet size that we decided this was a you know, jumbo frames. This was, like, an impossible packet size, session duration. You know, these now these the bottom to, they apply. They imply that the the tonnage or the bites used is greater than 0 you know, you you can't have a 0 session time with non zero bytes used and same thing with packets. You have packets yet that data. So we've been we had those zero filters as well. And just to kind of just as the last slide, I just wanted to just kinda show you what we've seen, through the vendor networks. That that we're processing the traffic for know, how many how how widespread is this? And, and and this is a this this is this data set. This is just some data that that I crunched and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "from September 1st to September 14th. Just taking all accounting stock records. That's it. And, So it's a it's a very small amount of sessions. If you could see on the bottom. It's a very small amount. The, for example, the packet count anything with packet counts of 0 well, let's just say velocity. Let's just save a velocity filter. It's only 15.01 percent of our sessions actually reported a a a throughput of over 2 gigabits per second. So it wasn't that many but the, so just just relative to the overall number of sessions, but that's as you can see on our on the right side, It's a significant amount of of gigabytes. So this is so pack account sessions that reported of of of velocity of throughput, of over 2 gigabits per second that actually was a total of 23 23 terabytes. That's the amount of data and session is that reported over 2 gigabits per second and it's the same same thing or, with these as well, with the others. You know, it's just It's a significant amount and that's something we're we're hoping to improve we're hoping to fix for every we're trying to set up flags to to to find find this fun session, fun problematic sessions that that could e reporting the usage wrong and what are we doing about it? We we actually have a we have some documents within as as an issue, and we we have some documents that were editing that are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "read by other, you know, members within the WBA other clearinghouses, other hubs to do a kind of a dispute resolution, like, disputing usage and there's we're we have like standardized processes that we're kind of modifying. So it's just, to address this and, you know, this know, these filters here will be the we'll be in there as well. In in those documents. So others others involved Wi Fi Roning could look at them and there would be a standard notice definition for flagging sessions. So, any feedback you have on on these filters, if there's something that doesn't make sense or something, Matt, we're that we that is still should be changed or edited or or or added let us know because we're we're working on a white paper to do this to to address this. And it will actually be finalized next month So, That's all I have. That's that's it for the presentation. If there's any questions or comments Well, that's fine. Thank you. Thank you for for coming here, Ryan. I don't know if Is there is anything that you're allowed to or or would want to, circulate the mailing list about this, but people are often, willing to, like, read things and comment on the mailing list if that would be would be helpful to you. I don't know any Is anybody here have any comments or Input for Good. WBA or Ryan or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:02",
    "text": "Yeah. And we like Alan joins our calls and and we definite We're we're we're in talks with him. Like, he has a a document on on GitHub about issues and fixes, So we're we're working with him to, it's address some of these gray areas Bernard. I saw you join the queue and then leave. I don't know if you had something you wanted to say? Yeah. I I just sent a message to the analyst. I think, maybe insecure practices might cover might wanna look at accounting issues too. Because I think there's more than just authentication issues that Probably should be considered in secure practices. Yes. This is Alan. Maybe from gathering all of these issues it's it's less insecure practices then what's wrong with the RFC. So, for example, I had a discussion earlier this the vendor shall remain unnamed that claim that the accounting request packets could contain nothing in common with the access best hank and reading 2866. They're right. How you do accounting when you have no idea who's on your network. I don't know. But they were extremely proud of themselves to have discovered this loophole and it's somewhat annoyed their customers. This is not really insecure practices. This is a oh god, the base protocol is broken. And people are leveraging it to be crazy. Thing, thing, thing, thing, thing, thing, thing, Well, not just crazy, though, but potentially dishonest things. Yes. If you can't if you can't audit audit it, that's really bad. I would agree with that. This just personally. I would agree with adding"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "things about this to insecure cure practices that would be, like, for instance, you should never run this over UDP anybody's paying anybody money related to it, would be a perfectly fine thing, I think. I would rather not have insecure practices become a litany of everything that's wrong with the RFCs. We have other ways of doing that. And if there's enough wrong with accounting that we need to reopen accounting, in the IETF or in this working group, I think we should to face that head on, not just make another document that says everything about this document over here broken. But but I think it might be worth saying something about, this this right right now, it's like, well, make sure you're, you know, user it information. Your personally identifying information is run an encrypted place. Make sure your password's passed in encrypted place. Make sure an and, you know, I think it'd be reasonable to say make sure any accounting information is passed in a secure Sure. Way. You know? Yeah. And it's it's probably worth, I mean, to where I'm too. It's probably worth putting at least a high level note in there. Saying, your accounting data should be as good as you can make it. And if you're not sure about what the RFC say, please talk to other people and do what everyone else does rather than inventing Thanks. Completely ludicrous and shipping it in your product in terms of people. On the past that, the the wiki calls it issues and fixes too, I think. And, yeah, for Margaret's point, whether we do yet another patch on top of a patch or slammer hedge against the wall and and and try and wrap the face protocol. I I I don't wanna talk about that right now. It's a very sad thing to talk about. Alright. Well, thank you, everyone. And, that's it. I've closed the deck."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "Okay. Thank you, Ryan. Yeah. I'm pretty sure that was the last thing on our agenda as well. We got bit longer slot than we asked for. So we're running right at our requested 1 a half hours, but, if people have things, it looks like Alan has thing, they wanna say before we go. Yeah. So to, continue on the issues and fixes, I believe we should finish the current documents first. And get those out of the way so we can focus on whatever we wanna do in the future. But there are also issues, which are related to the IEEE. So one issue, which has been raised recently, is supplicants blasting radio servers with traffic. And if you send access rejects back quickly, the applicants is immediately happy to send another packet. And now you have floods, and who's responsible for fixing that. You could delay rejects. But, there may be some overlap with I triple e, I asked Bob Moskowitz the other day. He couldn't recall exact what was in the original, I, I, Tripoli 802 and X State machine, but they're He didn't recall that there was any quenching in there. When there's again, I I put put some of this up on the Wiki. There's a there's a litany of things which we could do to address this. So there's there's a whole bunch of open issues on the wiki about radius in general. Is it voluntary tax? It bugs. There it's possible potentially for both, but the cases that we've captured have been things like mistype realm names. Certificates that have expired. I you know, things a user who used to use edgerome or someone who misconfigured edgerome. It can cause this. It's not the only"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:03",
    "text": "operational problem that we have. There is a congestion in edge room, not always caused by these kinds of floods just caused by things like, you know, a very large homecoming game between 2 universities that are very close to each other, will caused congestion of one of our servers, whichever one, all that traffic gets load balance to there are other cases where others congestion, that basically causes you to start running out of server resources. You know, these aren't things that cause our our sir system to go down but they are things that cause our system to be servicing you know, other people worse. And, I think we need to talk about I I heard you financial back off over there under your computer. We do need talk about what things should be exponentially backing off. It how the timeouts work. There's currently like funny thing that happens sometimes where if you've got multiple proxies in a row with time outset to the same thing for retransmission. So they're 1, 2, 3, and it's gonna go to 4 is gonna be the IDP. 3 retransmit, 2 retransmit, on retransmits. Like, in that order. And this is inefficient and causes congestion, potent, you know, Well, whenever order, Well, yeah, one said it first. So one retransmits, then 2 but, yeah, but they all retransmit in sequence. And this causes, you know, a a multi multiplicative traffic at a time when perhaps the reason the answer didn't come back was a little bit of congestion to begin with. And so we'll see charts where we get busy, slow and busy and slow over the course of a week. And then all of a sudden, we get busy and then we exponentially get busier. And then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:02",
    "text": "things start to run out of, resources. Maybe something crashes. And then it it comes back to normal. And those patterns are very familiar to me from TCP congestion charts. And we have just classic congestion caused by not, you know, every protocol that doesn't use TCP is doomed to repeat it. And, radius over UDP hasn't repeated everything necessary to avoid. Traffic ingestion. This is this is elegant to address Michael's points. No. It's not an attack. But there's no reason it couldn't be. In order to fix it, we will likely need to fix it in multiple places. At least including Radix and maybe the IEEE also. To go, hey, do quenching. If you're sending a 1000 packets a second because of a broken duplicate, it's your fault. You need to fix it as as the switch event again. And and then for all the rest of it, I know there's been some discussion about an offer operational considerations document for radius, which is not necessarily what's wrong with the protocol. But things which have been strenuously avoided since the beginning about things like failover was a subject of research, and I believe 1994, and we've run away from since then. Well, one of the things that causes congestion is that if you're starting the packet loss for any reason, you know, tricky UDP connection, a server that's overloaded, whatever. You'll start failing over and failing over in the middle of an eep session only guarantees that it fails. You could keep trying to go in the same way, and maybe it would work. But if you're gonna fail over an each session, you should actually just air out the each session. Because there's no point in failing over in the middle of an Eve session. You you basically are guaranteeing that it fails unless you've got a, like, a routing thing comes back around, which we generally badly and mesh configurations versus tree configurations."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "So Yeah. Except proxies don't track each sessions. And if good model, but they're so they're they're There is a lot of magic lore in various implementations, which people have determined to work over time. It may not hurt to write some of this down. I know for free radius, what we eventually figured out and decide what seems to work with the least issues is we really don't care where those deep sessions come from. So you can bounce eat packets back and forth between 3 or 4 up stream servers, So long as that state attribute is there and matches an each session, it's it's perfectly buy As long as they end up at the same end server, which they don't have any that that that I mean, there's a lot of a lot of trouble with the notion that we have a session layer on top of a protocol that thinks it's everything's one packet. And and these are inherent problems but they're not unfixable problems potentially. Yeah. So it sounds like an operational considerations issue to me. I know we had discussions many, many years ago. I thought they were summarize in 5080 about who should transmit and why. I know I had opinions about that at the time when Bernard had opinions but I don't see any I don't can't find any results. Written down any there. So maybe we need to open those discussions and write those conclusions down as operational considerations. Sorry? Hello. This is Gary from radiator software. One thing that supports of doing this kind of new operations document is all also that that if we are now kind of replacing the UDP radios with the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "radius over TLS and TCP it it the, kind of different things, like, retreats, certificates, how to validate all these are, completely different about the Unity stuff. Because the radius over the duty did things differ here. Now we have a TC bit there ensuring, for example, the message getting through. So we need to kind of figure out recommended ballers recommended settings that that those things for this new radius 1.1 or radius over TLS and so on. I agree. So anybody have anything else they want to to bring up before we call the meeting. K. Thank you all. And, we'll see you again and Brisbane in several months. Thank you. Will they have edgerone there, so if you asked? I don't supply edgerone for Australia, so I don't have the slightest clue. IIT has knocked provides causing in a foot time on work. I well, I think first off, I personally can't supply edgerone to people. But secondly, you know, they I think they do it at every IETF meeting. I think that they arranged with the local edge your own people somehow. So maybe it would be Paul Decker's here, but we know the people in Australia. They'll talk to them. They're our guys. Something to consider, but but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:12",
    "text": "they they have and I think they're connected. As a callback to the ETA virus. Okay. And for everything else, I hope that they they do dynamic discovery Bye. Mean, if if they're connected to the PTLR and Yeah. They're they're kind of their own natural probably. I mean, the I think the the sponsor for that is either switch or stainer? I thought it was something class had set up at some point, but Yeah. So he may just have it going right back to Jack. I mean, I I asked about any wrong for Yana. And because they didn't have the bad then they they started to talk to people, and I offered to to connect people, but they have connections. You don't need that information right for good? Mean, you're gonna get back to me about Yes. I see opinions on that. The liaison statement. Yeah. Okay. Thank you Obviously, they can see our discussions on the list but I see no reason to ask people not to have it, Okay. I don't know. Again today. I don't know either you can be a seafood butter."
  }
]
