[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:06",
    "text": "Tarin are you [Music] [Music] I have to read with my laptop so takes a while "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:10",
    "text": "[Music] okay finally we go good morning it\u0027s the second session of the mpls sessions first session was on Tuesday not well please note that every statement you make either in written or verbal form is seen as a contribution minute take us we have a minute taker do we have the Java stripe somewhere no so who wants to be the JavaScript okay we had a screw-up on the blue sheet "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:10",
    "text": "Stephanie will be bring them in and we start circulating as soon as they come yes so all information of course on the website and we will start today with the remaining well presentations for the Friday I think first one is qat blue sheets [Music] what\u0027s the wrong presentation sorry okay so this is an update on the armored document there are a couple of things as we are having discussions within juniper and also with some of our customers on you know what we should do with our mr and how applicable is it to their networks we came up with two things that are really important the first is egress node protection it\u0027s actually very similar to what happens with PE protection for VPNs what in BGP you call pick edge or LDP protection so a number of things or pseudo wire protection but but in our Mar one of the things is we want to make things very simple to configure so the question is not just how to do it because we have lots of techniques but how to do it in a way that\u0027s very easy to configure so the problem is illustrated here you have a ring that\u0027s the thing in blue you have these two purple dots or purple devices which is the Rings connectivity into the bigger network and if I have node a talking to a node B outside the network its exiting from the purple thing called X if a link fails Armagh will give you protection going back to ax different paths and then you can continue but if the node X itself fails what do you do and so you really want to go to the other node and then go into the bigger network and so the question is how do you do this and like I said we have techniques for this the other question is how to make this really simple to configure how much of this can be done automatically and this is all part of our trying to make these rings as close to self-configuring in south managing as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:10",
    "text": "possible so so we have some ideas and the next version of the draft will contain some of those ideas we invite you guys to comment on the list if you have thoughts about this if you have comments or in the suggestions that will come out in the next version and if you can see other ways of doing this the other thing that\u0027s that\u0027s really interesting is this thing called a half ring which is either a ring that\u0027s incomplete for example there\u0027s your ring kind of sort of just the the dark black part and either that connected via cornered or node deeper in the network or they are connected directly but the ring is in level 1 and that connecting link is in level 2 or the ring is non backbone and the connecting link is backbone so we don\u0027t want to leak the ring announcements from the non backbone to the backbone so it looks like an unconnected ring and so the question is how do you actually complete this ring and how do you get the protection you want because if you if one of the nodes or sorry one of the links in the ring fails the purple dot can\u0027t talk to a lot of things and so you know it\u0027s not really a ring but it\u0027s kind of a ring the thing is it\u0027s quite a common or a reasonably enough common topology that it\u0027s useful to have an answer to this so so if you think of it as just what\u0027s happening in the non backbone area that\u0027s what you get so you can call this a horseshoe as some people do you can call it a half ring Greg yes actually again an army line are you guilty of question on the slide no it\u0027s just a comment on the slide because it\u0027s it\u0027s a well-known problem in IGP you have your area split and you use it at least in OSPF as a virtual links to repair yep the thing is it\u0027s not only a control planting is also data planting I\u0027ve one more side but yeah okay so I pull to ask you a question and it just kind of pretty pregnant do you realize that this is a working group document yeah yeah I think so so you come back and say we within Juniper has discussed with the wild customers there has been no discussion whatsoever on the mailing list so why don\u0027t you treat it as a working group listen take the live discussion to the race yeah I will the the thing that we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:10",
    "text": "will you haven\u0027t dancers in 2015 so the the idea had offering cereal discussion with the exception for one one very good review a year and a half ago right that\u0027s everything it actually happened on a list except for one male are asking for comments one and the announcement means so I don\u0027t find it you really treat this as a working group that you treated a so individual draft that\u0027s not true the the half ring was a discussion that we had internally should we bring this to the working group should we actually consider this as a problem for our AMA which is a ring technology this is not a ring so if you have discussing where you are our customers and there is no discussion on the mailing list it is still treated as a working group talk you\u0027re not getting my point it\u0027s not whether it should be nice MIT not talking about the half ring they\u0027re talking about the document as such okay I mean we didn\u0027t know whether this is relevant to rings and when we talk to customers and they say we would like to deploy this technology but if you don\u0027t solve the half ring problem this is not interesting to us at that point we have to have a discussion do we not consider halflings as part of our Ramallah technology or do we do that once we do we make that the decision we want to try to do this we will bring it to the list which is why I\u0027m talking about it here so how long ago did this show up last week not last week yeah okay so you had time to actually bring it to a list before the meeting I did it in the update so if you look at the update it\u0027s discussed there it\u0027s in the in the document but for me the bigger question is is the working group interested in this problem I can bring it to the list I can talk about it here I mean what already you want me to do this in I it is in the draft and I\u0027m talking about it here so the the thing is that but problem I have is as I see no discussion on this I see no interest whatsoever on the mailing list okay oh I mean I\u0027m not sure what you need to do is actually go back yeah and actually start and discussion on the mailing list of all the topic that you bring up in the meetings right so far the topics that we\u0027ve had discussions on we have completed those so for example how to signal this in our in RSVP those discussion with George and we brought it to the mailing list and we put it in the document this discussion was something that internally we were not sure we should do this in our Mar so because I don\u0027t find it the iris abused it before "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:12",
    "text": "it became a workman no no their arms should be loved when we did our productive use of our tire okay sorry go ahead and finish up quickly oh sure yeah because you just wasted all my time so the the thing that we want to say here is half rings are common enough that even though they are not a ring and even though they have trouble Gregson suggested we can do the virtual links with we\u0027ve thought about that but you also need the physical connection so that you can do the protection in the data plane should that be an interest rate is that an interesting topic for erimar as a technology and our answer is yes because there are enough people who want a solution to this and that\u0027s why I say that I want to bring this to the list and I want to propose solutions and if either people have better solutions or they like the solution or they think it shouldn\u0027t be solved in rmr because it isn\u0027t a ring you know that\u0027s for us to decide so basically these I think these are both good problems to think about in the context of RMR that\u0027s because it\u0027s a working document the group has to decide whether we should solve these two problems like I said the first one is not hard to solve it\u0027s just how to make it self-configuring the second one is is offering a close enough where and touring that we want to solve the problem in the context of rmr or we could do it in different contexts and so we\u0027d like to bring those two points to the list have people have a discussion on that at that point I think we\u0027re done with all the technical updates to this document I ran into AC yesterday he said before you progress this we bring it to a size and OSPF just because there are n codings there and so at that point when once you have settled these two points we\u0027d like to propose that we prepare the door for working group last call and then move it forward questions comments okay yeah next presenter yes it\u0027s great okay [Music] okay so for those who are watching this as a second series this week we had a discussion on beauty directed and this draft is application of idea of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:12",
    "text": "controlling the reverse path of beauty session to the segment routing again the problem with the BFD as a method of monitoring continuity of unidirectional paths is the return path might create false negative so it could be because their network that used for reverse direction is less stable than the forward direction so then that\u0027s why ability to control reverse path might be beneficial so the proposal is to use reverse path BFD BFD reverse path till V in conjunction with the VD discriminator TV in LSP thing to change the reverse path used by the FD search session are characterized identified by the FD discriminator spring LS beeping for spring networks introduces three new R sub TVs and they can be used to specify the reverse path but here isn\u0027t some interesting idea for the working group to discuss and for everybody to discuss unfortunately spring group doesn\u0027t meet this week and I\u0027ll bring it to the mailing list as well in archetypes data model LSB label stack is characterized as a list of labels and we have started discussion because they use explicit index but even if you use explicit index you still can do our exact ordering based on indices so why not use our explicit label stack and pass it to the far end a remote BD node to use as a reverse path for their over segment routing and they would enter less domain so that\u0027s one of the proposals in this document so if there are any comments to this I appreciate it if not we\u0027ll continue discussion on the list okay so RFC 58 a be introduced several "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:16",
    "text": "modes for BFD in RFC 58 84 for MPLS LSP only use of asynchronous mode is defined for MPLS LSP and that\u0027s been for you known since we adopted our CA 58 84 but there is very interesting with interesting properties mode demand mode and the main mode can be a symmetric so one mode of art 2 can be in the mid mode was another node is an asynchronous mode that gives us very interesting properties because in the manned mode the node does seizes to send periodic Vivi control messages and that node can be put in the main mode and taking out of the main mode by its remote peer so again that\u0027s very familiar picture for you okay so we have MPLS LSP from node a to b and then over some other network path disjoint is for the reverse session so the idea the proposal here is to use how we can use demand mode for MPLS Network and actually RFC 58 80 suggests that one of the use could be if we have multiple sessions between the same pair of nodes and we want to minimize number of reverse sessions and we do have a codification of RFC 58 84 which deference that because you can have a CMP domain between LSPs or multiple LSP is between two endpoints and you want to actually it\u0027s a suggested that you monitor LSP so you will have multiple B of these sessions over MPLS LSPs between the same two nodes for the same FAC but you don\u0027t want to have each of this session to have reverse death so the proposal here is that the FIR and node node a in bootstraps the session how would it be if the discriminator and node B sends give the control packet with its beep the discriminator and they start forming the session in asynchronous mode but once they reach upstate node a can tell "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:19",
    "text": "node B to go in the main mode so the main node B has to stop sending periodic messages at the same time node a can verify that node B is alive by initiating post sequence and then no B will have to respond with F bit there might be some extensions to that that what can be done that if we want to note B to monitor and report on continuity loss of messages lots of messages from node a so node B can send in diag field loss of control it\u0027s actually it\u0027s effectively we call it our di when I think that we referred it in anti OSTP document our di be it set with a pole and a sequence so that\u0027s basically the mechanism once node a is receives there are GI indication from node B it identifies the session as Dell goes to the slow sequence but maintains their discriminators so basically it will be note a start sending barely parsley usually once a second leave the control packets but with all beef D discriminator so that\u0027s when they\u0027re linked when LSP restored it doesn\u0027t need to need to have a new are OSP thing bootstrap and it does it in a synchronous mode once the session goes up again node a may instruct no B to go in demand mode and we have effectively the same thing I must note that this proposal does have IPR and legal team is working there is no formal disclosure because I asked their legal team to work because I okay I know that what would you wonder what I asked I asked if that was not be our disclosure but Greg is responding that there is not and that will be yes there will be and it will be what\u0027s called covenant okay so that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:19",
    "text": "explains how it fails in how to stores and I appreciate comments and for agreement with B if the working group are all bringing it to discussion to the working group but again I would appreciate the suggestion whether it\u0027s applicable more in VFD group because it\u0027s somewhat changes or in updates 58 84 with the new mode huh send email on them okay any questions cook right here okay next one thirdly this chamber okay so the video working group is now completing its work on busy for multi-point networks or we can call it beef D for point-to-multipoint and broadcast so this is start on investigating applicability of b FD for multi-point networks to point to multi-point and to LS LS B\u0027s just to give the digest of how the FG works in the multi-point networks it uses demand mode there is no three-way handshake obviously there is no discriminator are allocated by the leaves or discriminator comes from the root so thus it complicates our de multiplexing sessions by the leaf normally in VFD therapy of the RFC 58 80 there de multiplexing is done by locally allocated ma you are identifier so basically the value that comes to the node in your discriminator field that would be locally a unique identifier discriminator because such is missing is absent in point-to-multipoint version there needs to be some other fields so what multi-point PFD suggests that it\u0027s turned by source IP address discriminator that is assigned by there rude and identity of their interface it was received so that sets some interesting restrictions on what we can do with the point-to-multipoint and ALS yes and actually there\u0027s some change in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:20",
    "text": "obviously state machine because their session is viewed as up all the time so the one possibility is use IP UDP encapsulation and then as described in RFC 58 84 so for ipv4 we use IP address destination from 127 / 8 range and or for ipv6 so another Martian so we use a destination UDP port assign\u0027d for multi point BFD and the source UDP port should be selected from dynamic port range is it possible to use non IP encapsulation because frankly with a very small army of the control packet size waste especially our ipv6 and ipv4 ipv6 is kind of waste it\u0027s possible but we need to remember that there is a requirement for multi point for BFD for multi point networks to have association to be able to associate each PFD control packet with a source IP address so the proposal here is to use - encapsulation with a CV channel possibly reuse existing channel and then use new source map ID IP address till TLV that\u0027s basically the channel already been allocated for imperil STP it uses it has a registry of map ID TVs but it doesn\u0027t have I P address our TLD is a source map ID so and bootstrapping might be done either using LSB ping or multicast VPN fast upstream failover has very nice proposal are to use DGP BFD attribute to inform the leaf that is a member of the particular multi-point video session i think that there needs to be done some enhancement to the GPB it\u0027s look at how this bgp be if the attribute can be used to remove the FD a-- session so just basically probably the jeux d\u0027eau withdrawal again comments welcome and i I think that this work "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:25",
    "text": "probably more belongs than pairwise because its applicability of PFD without any changes to be of the specification for MPLS point-to-multipoint kospi any questions for Greg okay I think not thank you much and next presentation turret [Music] hi everyone this is a quick update on two drafts that are defining the mpls hang model and ampulla static yang model I\u0027ll go over the updates the open issues and the next steps in terms of changes we\u0027ve migrated the MPI the ability to configure an MPLS label stack from a leafless list this was needed because we can have the same label appearing the lists multiple times so we have to have an e distinguisher in there in the list we did meet with authors of rib extended model we think this model has some intersection with with MPLS rib model and we discussed with them moving some of the things that we defined in MPLS because they\u0027re generic and applicable to IP world and they agreed to do so so I\u0027ll go over the agreed-upon changes the first item we updated is the MPLS label stack as I mentioned and we introduced this index the index so there was a discussion on should we use the index as an offset in the label stack we\u0027re talking about a an ingress or a anode pushing a number of labels and we are we are listing those labels indexed by a number so should this number be equivalent to the offset in the label stack so yang defines two modes of ordering a list either user user ordered or system ordered a user ordered basically the way they appear in configuration is the way that the labels will be slapped on the packet or pushed so the index is not of relevance then but the order appearing in per figuration as if we go with this approach then we can always insert after "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:27",
    "text": "or before an item or even remove after and before if we use a system ordered list then the system can choose any ordering that they see fit the order of configuring the labels is not of importance they can sort using the index and let\u0027s say for example the index is not consecutive or contiguous they can sort it by index and generate an offset off of that and and produce the label stack so obviously every time we add a label in that list the the back end has to do some sorting to produce the final set of labels to either push or update on the packet so these are two modes that we we try to discuss some are favorable of using the index as an offset I think I spoke about that the the the issue is you wave using the index as an offset is if I configure an index number two there must be a check that a previous label at index one is existent because you can\u0027t slap a at offset number two without having a label before that so there is some additional verification this needs to be done if we do that so this label stack is is relevant and in configuration at configuration time as well as in the state model in MPLS road model so and on the top on the bottom of the tree there so the MPLS routing types yang model has the find an MPLS label stack they have defined an encoding which exposes the TTL the traffic control and the label value so basically they exposed the whole label when trying to configure a label stack so we wanted to have a discussion on should we allow specifying TTL for non top label for every label in the stack that we\u0027re trying to push should we allow a specifying traffic control or traffic class per label I\u0027m Greg do you want to ask you a question now hmm yes okay actually there will be varying I think that is related you know definitely Stuart yes previous because and I started discussion of in a corridor was routing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:27",
    "text": "synonymous for labels so they will affect how we presented because for the same index we might have multiple labels and we want to configure them and then how they will be reported if we have synonyms for labels right again that\u0027s something that probably will need to discuss it we started thinking about it but nothing came up very like in an instant so that\u0027s some problem to think about right thank you yes so back to the label encoding of entries in the list we currently we are showing the label values in the label stack and on the previous slide here is composed of label value increase only no TTL or traffic classes allowed to be added but the routing type as I mentioned is defining this grouping that exposes label value TTL and traffic class now if we allow traffic class to be configured on on anything be on the top label then there is some intersection with RCS defined for the short pipe the pipe and the uniform pipe model for the TTL as well as the traffic class this is applicable at this position time as well as in position time I tried to go over that I didn\u0027t see anything alarming but if somebody thinks that specifying TTL and the label stack could cause routing loops or for example please you know highlight that Tarek I don\u0027t think it can cause the loop that I think it could cause problem when it\u0027s sloping I think but I\u0027m saying I said I don\u0027t see that configuring TTLs in the in the in the label stack will cause any loops but if you have to have a loop you might have real problems right yeah so if the packet loops back we are not decrementing the TTL possibly at this position time is that the behavior that we want so this is what we want to highlight blueburger question clarifying question yeah is TC included or excluded right now right now and the models that the static model at configuration time we\u0027re not allowing TC what if you\u0027re like trying to configure an SR stack right wouldn\u0027t you want to have TC there probably for every segment you want to allow specify and different or same traffic class so it\u0027s it\u0027s favorable maybe it\u0027s applicable for TC but do we want allowed for TTL as well so TC maybe "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:30",
    "text": "is yeah I have less of an opinion on but if if TC is now I think you said TC is not there correct currently it\u0027s not an hour model hosting that it might be a good idea to include yeah it\u0027s a good idea I agree should be and then update the grouping defined routing types or have a different grouping without the TTL there that\u0027s the big that\u0027s the quest I will ask to the routing group yang muddlers okay actually okay great nurse PCT I\u0027m a little bit not sure I see the problem that including TTL in a defined stack will cause a problem if there is a loop right at least in the uniform model you\u0027re supposed to keep the top label TTL all the way through right when you dispose you you basically the top one keeps incrementing it might be better to take the Rivoli I did leave a reference for that RC that talks about the pipe uniform pipe model there were a couple of attributes in the route that we introduced as MPLS attributes but they are applicable to IP routes as well we did we did take this discussion with the extended rib draft authors and we are following up on with them on this and we will update our model to comply with that there is an open issue to migrate to NMDA NMDA I think the recommendation is to go ahead with that and we will do that so the next steps to address the open issues that I presented and and we are we request further review and comments from the working group thank you any further questions okay so next is Adrian Adrian Farrell job Brendan can I do three shows of hands who was in the RTG no dude the other way around who was not in the RTG WG meeting earlier good that\u0027s no hands went up who was not in the first MPLS session where draft shoe unified thingy so that\u0027s about Oh that\u0027s about ten people okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:30",
    "text": "so Stuart had some of this material in his slides in RTG owg and as an overlap with the draft shoe that was in the first session so this is the last thing slot I\u0027m offering third show of hands who would like me to not present this that\u0027s okay so there\u0027s somebody from juniper and somebody from Jennifer\u0027s customer oh okay I will go through it fairly promptly our objectives then in looking at this work is to provide a way to tunnel MPLS SR a over an IP network so to connect to SR networks for example data centers or enterprises or whatever second objective to try to provide a unified approach to segment routing with the option and of using the same sid stack in all sr networks which simplifies the processing you have to do in in protocols but also in silicon and to provide a phased an option for a phase deployment of second routing so that non every node in your network has to be upgraded at the same time but you can start to roll out SR we do want to be able to coexist and have MPLS SR and SR v6 coexist we think that there are different solutions for different environments and different needs so this is not a proposal to kill SR b6 this is a proposal to add another string to the bow so the overview is really RFC 7510 those of you with long memories may recall this took us quite a long time to get through transport area even though this working group was quite cheerful about it but we\u0027re there and our major proposal is is simply to reuse that nothing smart about this encapsulate an MPLS CID stack in UDP in ipv6 address to the next s are capable node along the way which in in the tunnel is just the end of the tunnel or it may be sort of hop by hop and use the UDP destination port to say there\u0027s MPLS below there is a already a port allocate a UDP destination port already allocated for the payload is MPLS that\u0027s what 7510 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:30",
    "text": "does so in a little more detail you see from the bottom upwards the payload is entirely unchanged you just pick up the payload and drop it underneath a an MPLS CID stack just like if you were doing MPLS SR and you drop that itself into a UDP header just like the Iridium 75 10 and then on top of that you put the IP header to get you across the network you set a source to the sending s are capable node in other words the person doing this encapsulation you set the destination to the next s are capable now because it\u0027s going to process the sit stack and you set that pro to the next protocol to UDP of course so SIDS get advertised there is no change to the way the suits are advertised and configured at etcetera etc etc this is just the SR piece is just SR and we believe that all sit in this way unless there\u0027s nothing new so I have three slides say who does what in the network the source builds the SR stack just like it was a an SR node it encapsulates setting the fields as I just described in UDP and then in IP the little wrinkle is that to set the destination address you\u0027ve got to look at the top CID in the stack and say where am I trying to get to and map that but you can take that mapping out of the advertisement and then you once you\u0027ve encapsulated you\u0027d look up and send so it looks really like 7510 with how do I decide what the end end of my tunnel is being I look up a CID so if you\u0027re a transit and you\u0027re not sr processing it\u0027s pretty important that we can get these packets through nan SR nodes and that\u0027s fine if it\u0027s their IP packets and they just go no special processing tour and ecmp where it exists you get using the entropy in the source port just like 7510 TTL behaves as normal it\u0027s an IP packet if you\u0027re a transit SR node well there are two things if it\u0027s addressed to you you need to work on it if it\u0027s not addressed to you and your SR capable you don\u0027t touch the packet it\u0027s just an IP packet being routed through so if it is addressed to you you look at the packet you go oh it\u0027s UDP oh it\u0027s MPLS in UDP now I look at the SR stack that\u0027s in there I get the next hop and now from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:33",
    "text": "now on I behave just like headed at the ingress I clapper said to find the IP address from the next hop and I encapsulate again look it up and send so a transit is effectively doing the same work as an ingress so to use case pictures they are just checking the colors came out okay at the top use case is where this work sort of started which is tunneling between two domains the way 7510 is talking about it and your yourse it stacks quite simple because it\u0027s just the target Porto Rooter and you\u0027re tunneling the more entertaining case is where you\u0027ve got an IP network with three types of nodes legacy IP routers that don\u0027t us are it\u0027s our capable rooters that you\u0027re not actually addressing in the CID stack and s are capable Richards that you are addressing and so you\u0027re you\u0027re essentially doing big hops across the network hopping over the legacy rooters by just routing through them hopping over the s are capable rooters you don\u0027t care about and and then actually doing s are processing that what are the red nodes in this map and well this is a 0-0 draft so it\u0027s got some bits in it that are wrong and people have been helpfully pointing those out to us in subtle or not so subtle ways this week so we need we know we need to polish there is the issue of the overlap with draft show and the author\u0027s had lunch in office if both teams had lunch earlier in the week and agreed a way to move forward so that there\u0027s only one document for everyone to look at which I think will be helpful we think that actually this work is pretty obvious I think one of the comments we got offline was yeah this is just virtual interfaces and you\u0027re sending packet and yes that is exactly what it is we\u0027re just a little bit of help to say when you send it out the virtual interface how do you know which virtual interface to send it to we think it\u0027s in charter but we also think it needs some more polish and discussion before we make the traditional quest it would have been nice to end last presentation of the last working group with can we ask for adoption but I\u0027m not going to do that morning Island Spring co-chair I\u0027d like to present that work in spring because I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:33",
    "text": "think it would be interesting for spring I would personally think it would be a moral in scope for spring because who I see it is a self that Abed for spring I\u0027m from so I\u0027m from a technical point I\u0027d like to see OEM part to be announced and I saw oh I see end to end or am specifically during transit the so IP source is atrocity node and that show to see how I could come back to the original source but it\u0027s a detail that I\u0027d like to see more in OMM curtains Stuart\u0027s got up to answer there am point but I just answered the the other things yes of course would talk to spring about this we weren\u0027t on the agenda for the spring meeting this time round for obvious reasons obviously as to the fight about where it ends up being adopted and worked on yeah whatever I mean we\u0027re not actually changing the the spring data play and we\u0027re just doing an MPLS encapsulation but I\u0027m not religious about spring it\u0027s not about to fight it\u0027s to be consistence and to be sure that anything we do with a regular spring it mpls candles will be done with yeah yeah anything we can do it with si6 could also be done with that proposal and to be sure it\u0027s all in sync yeah I think actually you know I\u0027d be happy if across the area we were consolidating the spring work back into spring there\u0027s been a history which we don\u0027t need to go into but at the moment if you look at where the spring work is it less than half of it is in spring yes I agree with you outside of spring so show Bruno how about this we take it off list we discuss it among the authors and chairs for both working group and we decide exactly what to do or probably involved ADEs at least one state solution and to OEM we need to work it work it all through but I\u0027m hoping we can inherit whole bunch of existing MPLS OEM to make this work in MPLS OEM has got the concept of returning to an answer to an IP address another thing it cannot be known her and the scheme for what it is yes well we need to do the work right okay Thank You Marian this was our last presentation MPLS meetings in Prague this time is concluded see you all in Singapore I hope oh one thing where are the blue "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:36",
    "text": "sheets bringing up to the front and sign if you haven\u0027t done it you "
  }
]