[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "okay we can start um welcome to a role meeting please be aware of the note well and uh yep um so these days the atf is putting emphasis on the code of conduct that's why we have an extra slide for that so the atf and we here in the world working group expect to see discussions uh about ideas and technical discussions but we expect everybody to be treated with dignity decency and respect and that's even written in a guideline for conduct so this is what we're striving to achieve in this working group and in the atf in general so please be aware of that thank you great thank you so about the online meetings tip please we encourage to use headset if possible to reduce the noise on the echo thank you okay this is the meeting materials please if you can volunteer to help us with the minions we will very thankful and uh okay yeah volunteers we need volunteers okay i can see four online michael pascal great thank you very much thank you okay i see one guest connected you need to connect through data tracker to be allowed to edit the minutes but thank you very much for volunteering yes thank you very much and this is our agenda and we are going"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "to start with the working group status then we are going to discuss about the audib ripple mode of operation then pascal will present the multicast registration and it's a six law document and then we will discuss about our current open issues style projections uh failure router and the enrollment priority okay some objections comments okay thank you about our state of active internet draft we are going to discuss two documents now projection enrollment priority and about audible ripple we have one document in submitted to the isg for publications and moppex capabilities were submitted recently and their work in progress uh i we hope to that we can go to as well at some point to work in group class call from opex and then we're going to as well discuss about this failure detection of the router [Music] by contract and then as well there is a new version of a storing root so please review and consider to have it as a work item in the working group we have to discuss about that and return to work because we understand that the kobe situation has has put some difficulties to complete some work so we are starting again to get back to what we left um okay about the experience internet draft we assume that those are going to be continued later the information these modifications"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "about young and multicut spear so this is our marston that were achieved that are done basically the through our rfc so about the current milestones um okay about the first item we have to we have to update the date and we still have work on done so this they have to be updated for the second one uh we we have split in two working items uh two documents opex and capabilities so as well they have to be updated i don't know so yeah yeah what what the offers think would be an appropriate date for submission of mobax on the one hand and capabilities on the other hand i think that's maybe rubble or the co-office so with regards to mopex and capabilities i think for mopex there is just one action item which is open it's uh already shared on the issue list in the in the github repo that we have the role working group but apart from that there are no other pending items so to speak we would really love to have some targeted review stores this documentary already dominated this review based on which is the last update okay so um do you mean you could work on it in the next few months but as we're going to update the milestones we don't want to do that every month you know in pushing things further and further so what would be a reasonable milestone for that according to you [Music] x is an easier one to handle the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "capability is maybe we can take it up later i would say even though there is one single work item uh but that's a call that i working with that that our working group should be taking i i'll maybe float that question on the voting group again romney gave already raised that in the email i guess but we are yet to receive any response but i would say design-wise complexity-wise mopex is much lesser complex than capabilities so i would say that okay thank you okay thank you sorry which months i could not understand yes uh the months well i didn't say uh okay you're coming in quite quite low around actually if you can increase your mic level or speed close that's like compared to the others how is it now sorry i'm sorry that's what i wanted to say as well because i'm trying to take notes but i really cannot hear what harley said how is it now sorry it's better better still a bit weak but but better let me just repeat what i said there was one uh one open question on the mopex that we have in the issue in the work working group repo github repo that is the only open action item that the working groups needs to take a call on with that done mopex is fairly a simple designs badly a simple document because it does not introduce much uh any new messages on the other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "hand capabilities document introduces new messages so it might take a little bit more longer uh and as i would say that we can we can handle more effects first and keep capabilities for later [Music] is our current priority uh we need that we are going to have to review more from michael and addy and then i think we are ready for working on glasgow um [Music] yeah uh peter is here no i don't think so we have to take this with discussion with the author and enrollment priority we need one review more so we suggest march next year these modifications the meaning do you have some november yeah yeah that's probably going to be in the end of next year um i need to resume work that's going to happen in the spring then or the usual delays you know before submission okay great thank you and then multicast would be uh this is a between is a work that will happen between pascal and carsten so we can ask them by email or if they want to comment here not moving on with this one and so this one's recasting but but the multicast work that we've started so far is told uh we need to to get more interest on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "here etc for now okay no this is this is not the focus okay great thank you let us know okay um okay we have open tickets like uh here so please they are outdoors check your tickets if you consider your a document close to working with last call share your tickets and close them if they are sold or updated accordingly thank you we have the two system the report and the track from the idea from the github we will try we aim to move to cheetah but still we we keep both okay next topic it's uh of the variable so we are currently in version 11 we are working in the discuss discuss comments from the ist but as well we want to bring here the conversations about the mode of operations and if this document should obsolete the 6997 so to give a background we have in the current document the mod operation five so in here we have two options we continue with the mode of operation five but we have a available only two six and five so it's going to keep one left but if this non-story mode multicast u6 they're not going to be nothing left for future work the other option is to use the one from the draft 6997 operation 4. this document this draft this rfc is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "experimental p2p ripple is we are not aware of the implementation so as far as we know is not widely implemented we know that exists unimplementation in riot operating system but we have not got any comments into the main list so please if you are aware of some deployments let us know incrementation let us know by the main list the other question if this a draft audio variable should obsolete p2p ripple and if we go forward with this option we should clarify that both implementations cannot coexist on the same network right and what happened i mean if they overlapped so we want to know the discussion and the opinion of the working group on this matter and yes overlapping is a big world because to to get two nodes to talk together you need to voluntarily give them you know the network keys so they can see each other i mean it does not happen by mistake or by magic you know all those networks are secured but layer two so um really it would be very very surprising that someone uh comes in and deploys nodes with two different protocols on the same networks and so it really will not happen we have to explicitly explicitly say that it's not compatible with 6997 and that you know they should not be deployed in the same network but really it will not happen by mistake and people have to have to configure keys but just there's no magic it's not just because they are in the same place thank you very much"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "what do you think about obsoleting b2p 6997 i'm fine with obsoleting the reason is uh as you said there is no non-deployment uh and uh having two options would divide the market quote-unquote so if if people decide to to go for a reactive protocol i think it's good that they have one clear option and not to choose between two and did 6997 was experimental now we are doing a standard track that's exactly what we mean yeah yeah okay yes uh based on understanding all the use cases that are applicable to p to p can be fulfilled with odp ripple so there is no a specific use case that should need p2p and can and not be possible yes alvaro so we had um i had asked the same question when this draft first came to me about obsoleting um p2p there is one of the applicability rc's that i think recommends using p2p um you know i think there's a should there use b2b or something like that or maybe it's a must i forget um we're going to go that way we're going to need to update that right so that um and i understand there are no implementations but yeah we need to just update that so there's no pointing to something that doesn't exist anymore i need to remember if there are parts of aodv that point at procedures in p2p because you know it uses some not exactly the same thing but you know there are some things that are similar"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "if that is the case then we need to specify them in the draft right because if we're going to obsolete the other one we can't refer to an obsolete document so if we're going to do that then we need to do a little bit more um work i mean i'm not opposed to it i just you know we just need to to be a little bit more careful in in what we're doing there thank you it's my building and it's the building and home rfc 87733 that talks about p2p i was pretty sure and then i looked and i'm right um and um i think we can relatively safely say that i don't think that it's it's been implemented or deployed in any significant amount or even any insignificant amount um but i understand what you're saying uh we we need to kind of uh uh tell people if they are going to implement it uh how they would do it with aodv instead i think that's what your point is is that right yeah right and um right so i'm not sure if or i was hoping that that the update to that uh applicability statement would just be like a one line thing of instead of using p2p usa or aot i don't know if there are other parts of the profile that we would need to change there but yes we just need to go that sounds like a good thing it would say update 7733 and then say something else about this yeah right right it may just be a one sentence thing it may be more i'm hoping just one sentence right yeah 7733 just says these are the right parameters and so you need to give the other parameters for aodv doesn't say anything about really how you use it it's not really yeah well okay so it sounds like we just need a paragraph or so that sounds enough yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "so it seems we need to do some homework if we go that route and see what the easier stuff obsoleting would be nice if it's not too costly in terms of uh process um so who's willing to examine that uh i'll take a look at that next week and see what i can do great thank you so it would have been nice if uh charlie or someone would have been here i don't know if any of the other authors are here or not um conflicts the other part of this is that this document already went through iesg review yeah i mean it's sitting there right with a couple of discusses um i i need to think about this because we might need to pull it back and um you know pull it back from the asg queue and send it back to the working group uh because it may be a more significant change i hate doing that because i mean this document already left the working group like two years ago um but it's just been slow uh on getting provisions and right but apart from saying it would just use mob number four uh how would that document audv ripple be affected it would trigger uh well map number four then we're also leading p2p and updating well yes it was because now it would be obsolete other things and changing other stuff so i guess what i want to see is probably what the scope of the changes before i guess i make a decision whether"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "we need to pull it back or not because um since we're in the middle of the asg review right i want to just pull it under people's feet right and maybe all we do is ask them to to consider it again or something without having to run through the whole last call process and everything else but let's look at the at the scope of the changes um okay and then we can figure that out actually in this view okay you haven't gone through the last slide on this and maybe diogenes has now understood we're leaning forward toward going to mode4 for aud report and and so we we asked the question on mailing list we got a few answers not many but most of them were in favor of reusing mob4 i think mostly the working group members are conscious of the few more values left until we have no packs and so this is the occasion if somebody strongly objects to using four and as alvaro said if we agree that move four is the way where we want to go we'll investigate exactly how much work is involved and what the process is for your db report okay we will create an issue to track all these and we can we can specify for example with documents referenced to 69.97 so we know how much this document is affect the other other documents okay yes okay i'm hearing no strong objection right now issue last warning on the mailing list and and do the homework"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "to investigate exactly what is involved by reusing them up for okay very good thank you okay great thank you okay good so we have three minutes more pascal do you want to go with multicast okay um well this basically let me introduce this it's a fairly recent draft that was published let me share video maybe okay uh so this is this is a fairly recent draft that was uh proposed at six low but really it is both a six low other raw work uh because it does basically what eight five or five which is six floor fc does for nd but at the same time it does what uh nine zero one zero eight ninety eighty ninety ten i'm sorry that's for uh ripple remember that's the ripple underwear leaf so in the case of the two existing documents it's about using uh six lap and nd to register an ipv6 address and uh so that's h505 and using ripple um to basically report that extra knowledge rise to the root using non-stone story mode here which we are doing is we are extending 8505 for multicast and any cast address and at the same time we are providing the operation in ripple to transport those addresses so there was a ripple multicast support for storing mode there was nothing for non-storing and casting was really asking for something to happen there you know there was nothing for any guest anyway so next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "so that's the brief intro okay so so basically just for for the sake of memory here is that the family of rfcs which come with uh six open d started with 6775 which was extended and partly replaced uh by h505 so with this you can basically uh register using a unicast exchange an address to your router and that has the good capability with h505 to abstract whatever routine happens in the network in our case it's ripple but uh it could be meeple it could be a neighbor discovery proxy and that's what rfc8929 does um there's also evpn there's a draft at the vpn for injecting address my ip address slash mac addresses as a rapid type 5 in vpn um and there is rift as well so there are many environments where we can actually learn from this abstract agnostic interface which address exists on the network and what their mac address is and inject that in whatever backend being be it ripple rift evpn etc but that was only for unicast so there are two things which are uh happening right now uh at six low one is to extend the support of this of the 6lbr so it can be used as a registrar that you can look up when you have to to find an address mapping instead of sending in the next lookup as a multicast broadcast message you can actually effectively do that as unique as so that's one piece of work which is happening but for our interest here the the most important thing is there is this six"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "little multicast registration that i'm discussing today next slide please so why did we create it and why did we go through swiftly well there is there is an external sdo called the weiss and alliance that uh defines in the fan working group field area network working group define how ripple six slope and extra are being used for ysl applications that's 15 4g typically for metering applications and so far they were using unicast but they started noticing the need for multicast and for that they wondered how to achieve it and realize that implementing mld would would be very hard for their very constrained devices on the one hand and requires to to listen to multicast and the the low power battery operated devices are not friendly to broadcast in in any fashion that's why we did apparently in the first place but the same need appeared for for the suggestion suggestion was oh this device is already 285 why don't they uh use 855 as well to basically indicate that they are listeners to to a multicast address or that they share in any cast address and for the front from the perspective of the 6lowpan device 6ln that's pretty much the same effort whether it's unicast any caster multicast you just have to say hey i can accept a packet coming to that address although in hand and they need to signal in h505 you know it's unique as any cast or multicast to just to be very clear that they know about it and because any cast are not distinguishable from unicast so you really have to sign it a multicast is different it always starts with foxbox you know so it could be infer than it was actually so far in repo in felt from from the address but with this draft we're effectively asking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "that the flags which say anycast and multicast are propagated in ripples so the the writing protocol is very clear what type of address and what phrase expected the 6r has a little bit more work to do because compared to the unicast it has to accept more than one registration for the same address but with different rovers so basically the tuple that identifies the registration becomes address comma rover and remember the rover is what initially was the ui 64. that's the unique id of the device that can be actually proven using rfc89 so this draft also extends in under our leaves because now we can next inject any cast and multicast addresses in ripple so the same type of mapping there is what comes in uh 8545 here is what goes out repo on the other way around it's pretty much the same i mean there's very little difference the differences in the ripple behavior and so we extend 65 50 to express that behavior and that's when the discussion on map4 came into play because if if um aodv takes mode 5 it means that for this draft we would be asking map 6 for the non-starring multicast support and that would mean taking the very last map available so so we said a uh since four is not reused uh maybe better take the path of of leaving six alone and using five here and four for iodp repo that's really where i started so same thing as the the arrow option in h505 we have two new uh flags and this time they are in the report target option and because anycast was not present in map 3 we also describe how any cast works so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "any cast in terms of ripple process procedure is really like multicast like you have to accept and remember keep track of more than one origin but uh in the case of any cast when you have a packet you just forward it to one of them whereas with multicast you forward to all your children in storyboard multicast next slide please okay and the big thing to for this group i guess is that we we introduced the new non-starring multicast mode of operation and so this slide basically discusses what that map does um so if the the six sellers at the edge which have six ln children attached to them which register for multicast or any cast address setting the flags in the error will propagate that registration if you know us in a five the flag is set to say please do the routing for me so if a flag is set 6lr will inject the address using a target option with the appropriate flag set so in non-stopping mode um that that's going to be a unicast by get to the root just just like for a row a ripple no leaf and what happens now because if it's it's multicast in the case of multicast the route will do what we call ingress replication meaning that it will send a packet a copy of the multicast packet to each of the six sellers that have sent down so each of the six alarms that have at least one child which registered to a multicast address for multicast string really um will receive a copy and the copy will be tunneled exactly like for an external route so it's going to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "be a just an srh to the 6r 6lr the encapsulates the packet and the exception the capsulated packet instead of being unicast in as usual this time becomes a multicast is a multicast packet but for forwarding down the deal dag it didn't make any difference it was just a tunnel packet to the 6r so the the route sends a one to six slr and and each cxlr uh looks you know the destination and copies all the six elements that subscribed and note that in the mailing list we discussed how to call this and we we agreed to call it subscription so um really the 6000 subscribe to to multicast address when they register uh to to an unicast or on any cast address just for terminology because the multicast address does not belong to the device uh where your unicast or even any cast belongs um the and then there is also obviously this support for any cast and for the support of any cast well the root will just choose one of the six at all and and send the packet to him so it's it's again uh the same unicast tunnel as usual and inside there is a packet which is an anycast package and so the cxlr will look for uh any of the devices that register to it and pick what so it really looks like the support of unicast you just pick one and send uh the only little thing is is uh if the layer 2x uh indicate that the 600 does not receive the packet the 6r is still free to pick another 6lm that registered for the unicast address and pass the packet to him so after a few weeks the nodria stream is free to decide for for alternate 67 next slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "and that's pretty much what is being said in more detail here so as opposed to multicast in any cast address looks like a unicast address so we we effectively needed a flag uh to to signal in ripple and in nd that this is any cast now there is always the question of the backward compatibility for both cases so uh basically in the case of multicast as soon as you see uh foxfox in the address you assume multicast anyway finally cast uh the process the proceeding will be as unicast until there is a command parent somewhere in the case of story mode that or the root in case of non-story mode that sees multiple registrations so if the common parent or the root sees multiple registrations for an address if none of them has the flag for ready cast it will just keep wrong and you know the tid rule will apply etc and it will reject the the others as duplicate but if uh one of them bears the any gas flag it is to understood that all the registrations are for any cast and then it will remember them all note that for any case the tid is irrelevant because multiple nodes can originate advertisement it is relevant within the scope of one rover but the rover is is not propagated when there are multiple registrations for the same address for instance the first the 6lr which receives uh three registrations for three six elements which one to be sent to the same anycast and that's three different rovers and that cannot be circulated inside ripple so so the use of rover is is not the same and the use of tid is not the same basically those things won't work for any guest they're multicast what did you say oh yes the important one is there is no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "instruction right now in the document uh about in the case of any cast how a node will decide which child or the root which decide which cxlr um is there some stickiness based on the flow is there you know pure round robin pure random that's that's not discussed but what's discussed is you know a node cannot source within any cast or multicast address which is just ipv6 architecture next line so last but not least we have uh backward compatibility uh considerations because uh repo is already widely deployed in particular for white sun and it's always deployed with map one so if we wanted to do this as an addition to an existing network we have to do two things we have to to explain how it works in map one and then we say yes it can work but we have to to uh basically tell the nodes uh that that they have to support it because it's not report which will signal report will see number one as opposed to about five next slide please and so where we we this the document was adapted there's great progress in there it's getting stable um we have to i would say finish it on the sixth low list but would really appreciate comments from rip from the raw mailing list cc6 low and then we we started discussing with uh the 80s about you know how we we do this interaction between raw and and ripple so that's working progress but eric client should talk to alvaro and eric also suggested talking to pm people to see exactly what kind of intersection we have there and i'm done"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:04",
    "text": "hi uh yeah so just to make sure you just sit there um to make sure i understand uh you're basically eliminating the need to do mld yeah pretty much i mean so so it was done in two steps because traditional nd requires mld for even unicast addresses you have to use mld for the solid state not to us it's a very crazy and complex operation htfo5 got rid of that so note that just as unique as the 505 did not have mlt and now we are removing mrd from test addresses no i understand that my next question is is really or the next observation is that as we discussed before 8505 and all the other related iot enhancements labor discovery and everything else not only apply to iot networks right they can be used in any ipv6 network yeah yeah exactly right so yes you're complete throughout the correct route as well right so yeah this uh i mean obviously concerns me because i'm also the the ad for pim and uh one of the things that pim has in his plate is to move mld v2 to internet standard uh uh sorry who the mld sorry i missed that mld they're moving mld to internet standard well yes this thing does not i mean that doesn't mean the fact that there are other solutions doesn't mean that mld cannot be an interest standard right um but yes it would be great if they saw this um and you know i don't know provided opinions or whatever it may be it may give them ideas on how to make him out be mld uh sorry uh more efficient or i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "don't know whatever uh but yes so i searched the archives as far as i can see pym has not been made aware of this can you please maybe you send an email to pim or i don't know if we need to get the six load chairs to do that um did pim already meet this week yes yes okay so that's to be an email but yes we need to congregate with them i guess yes that would be neat uh yes we are we're removing completely from the six the 6lm can do unicast any cast and multicast without any mld that's really the bottom line right correct um okay i mean so at least uh if you can uh i'll go talk to eric as well um if you can just send a pointer to the pin list hey you know take a look at this um and see if there's any reaction i mean no no need i don't think that that should result in any holding of the document or anything like that but just to get uh your reaction from them would be would be good at least just to make them aware sure and another hint is is i have this draft at evpn i i don't know if you're the id for best i think not no no no you're right and and well we base also has a very complex story for for multicast and this this makes it a lot simpler actually so um we we well incorporating unicast any guest and multicast in the same interaction host to router would simplify the operation of the router to inject it in the vpn as well so so i i plan to modify the draft that you see here to also suggest any custom multicast and all we're doing now that i see the word secure all you're doing is um multicast targets not multicast sources right oh it's not source dependent it's just it's also independent only because we we do that for repo uh so for now there is no way to in repo or 0.6 lopez to say source dependent yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "it's it's completely so similar thanks michael i and mean do you want to yeah hi um so i i gave you my feedback on the six little list a couple weeks ago and um we had a brief conversation and i guess the question i have is whether or not your document should be split into a six flow and a role component and what i'm really particularly interested in is whether or not the um the non-role parts of it will be easier to understand by others um without the role if we do it that way um and or otherwise what happens is that the other people say oh this is just about role forget about that i don't run role on my network so i don't care um and i and i really think that um for fear of violating the russian proverb you know uh good is uh good enough is better than perfect right or whatever it goes um perfect is the enemy of good enough that's the proverb um that trying to do this in a more general way may actually sabotage us and doing it in a more specific way is that safer so i feel two things about that and i'm wondering what where you feel on that field now so i i rejoined just to second what michael was saying because i think it's important for owns the whole thing if we don't want to break it up but it definitely needs a role review this is something i'll also talk to uh eric klein about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "but uh i guess and dominique if you can also talk to six load chairs to make sure that uh yeah we last called the document here as well right if it's going to have ripple elements in there we need that to happen i'm not really concerned about that alvaro i think that we'll get that anyway um but i'm actually more concerned about the opposite which is that the non-roll parts get review out to int area and that they they and as you said pim okay uh and you know doing things um that that we really can seriously consider this is a major that this this is a major problem uh i think out there um i actually am debugging mld issues across the um too many vendor five different vendors of switches can connected together and it doesn't work across at all and so v6 doesn't work very well um and we're gonna have to throw out some equipment right so that's the only solution we have at this point um so nothing to do with protocols except that gosh i wish it would go away and not be a problem uh because it's not really helping me and i don't think it's it's that that i think that we need to move on to away from what i call layer two tricks to make this work and and focus on layer three okay thank you very much pascal and michael we need to move forward we can take this to the mailing list but yes if this document have role topics uh and if we do it in six no we are going to ask review for role as well um okay thank you very much um okay next slide [Music] projection er pascal please do you have yes so i i haven't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:04",
    "text": "so i saw that the projection was on the agenda but not really a full space for it but i just since it a lot happened to it i wanted to give a very short status so so basically the last revision is now 21 and it bumped to two levels because of the interactions with dollars tallest did the next cent very very deep very complete line-by-line review of the document both on content you know functions and and structure so so you'll see that the changes address very much everything of that and i think it was really really beneficial for document i hope it's much more readable for somebody who has not read it in the first place so that's why i was asking ramos to hold his review till i published at least 20. but now as you realize it's ready and i'm happy that you called for reverse rs2 to do his review and mike as well that would be grand um based on you know the comments by tallest and the revision i'm i'm personally happy to start what group let's go anytime because i think that really we've got we've gotten where we want it to be and anywhere good last call is not publication request right we still have to to get uh reviews and feedback and solve the issues so mean if you want to delay the workplace call uh till other reviews i'm fine uh i'm also perfectly fine if michael and remus aries do their review as part of the work of glasgow because i think that the document is the restructure and now hopefully much more stable and i won't restructure it again if you go to the next slide you will see what happened so um here is what happened in one slide because i didn't have 10 minutes um the introduction is much simpler shorter because we have a new section three uh which basically uh was requested by dollars to to explain the domain uh explain what the requirement"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "you know why we are doing this and uh what kind of use case it's how it's going to work so all the contacts so we have a large six section three now which reintroduces uh the story and so the main introduction now became smaller we have extended the projected dial sections into a new section actually but we have extended it to do not only the mosquito setup but also everything about maintenance we have moved the uh section nine up in that new section street i was discussing which is basically all the context and end goal of the document so the whole section nine example track signaling etc has moved up so you see what we're doing and why we're doing it before the how we are doing it yeah and there were some identics about use cases applications blah and now this also moved up in in the context and goal section so you see this context and call section specifies nothing but gives a lot of information about what we are doing and why we are doing it uh top right and we we have more terms now um you'll see that terminology has what i would say i would call uh domain terminology so terminology terms that are not necessarily defined in this document by this document but used by this document going from the general domain of the knowledge the general knowledge of the domain so they are now redefined recited here the section three of this big piece and the second from top right new and move text this is all this big new section three that i was talking about you'll find particulars reflect two as new uh use cases for making more complex tracks the protocol operation is now section six and as you can see with the second blue arrow on the bottom right it's gotten bigger as well it has all this information about all the steps for creating setting up destroying maintaining tracks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "and again the pound or less request bottom right you see because tolerance was asking hey uh we plan to use repo we do use reported enema the control plane so so how much does this apply to anybody because we we would have needed it and so i explained in that section now that it does indeed apply to use cases beyond iot and that's how some things basically some kind of modification extensions that we already did for animal you you need this you don't need that so this is this is the result of the review by dollars and hopefully it's a lot more readable and more complex because you know tallest did not leave anything uh to magic you wanted everything really completely specified so i really appreciated this review and i'm i'm quite confident that we can go for alaska you know with this but i'm okay i mean waiting for rainbow silver michael as well she's charcoal and i'm done that was all my slots okay great thank you very much please go through the emails uh no stories to the tickets and close them if it's uh if they are done okay thank you um conrad yes most of them were obsolete i think we had that discussion earlier but they were really really old and obsolete but if you want to have a call separately offline we can we could briefly have a session together and just go through them okay okay okay okay thank you uh content yes i'm here uh can everybody see me uh hear me at least yes we can hear you very well yeah okay thank you very much so um i'm about to talk about the draft rnv draft so as some of you may remember it was submitted somewhere sometime in april then i presented in august the interim and just resubmitted to make"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "it active so what i did is mostly from the working group members um so they concerned like floating products virtual dock routes and sentinel selection and also some minor like editorial comments by michael and pascal and also i added one section which allows for activating and deactivating the protocol on demand and i found this useful like if you don't want to use it or want to for instance deactivate it because of i don't know high false positive rate or do some like emergency deactivation then um this is what it can be used for so uh so i think that the protocol now addresses all major comments i also went through the the talk during uh the the recording from from the interview about pascal's comments uh and uh well uh i think some of them are beyond the scope and some of them well they cannot be like easily addressed so especially about some parameters of the protocol being global but i don't think that well they constitute much of a problem so the question now is whether we want to adopt the draft or not i guess and if you have any further questions then i can reply now or via email yes so um [Music]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "[Music] speakers so you should mute one or the other okay so um i produce power um yeah and i'm not using my headset because wireless and sometimes the mic goes and so it doesn't help a lot so sorry i did not move to your recommendation um so what i was saying is this is this is classical byzantine general problem right so so you you have to find um an agreement between at least two-thirds of the interventions to to decide whether something is true or not it's it's very hard private general and then we have this issue that you're trying you are trying not to go through the root um which makes the prime of another because for many of those generals uh only the route is is available to talk between one another another so this this is a hard problem it's it's also a very important thing to solve the nodes need to know if the root is still there and and they need to know rapidly so we i believe we need to adopt because we want this problem solved but we we want to be very very sure that it's not because we're adopting this document that we are completely sure that the inceptions you know the basic mechanism proposed here is is the right one uh there's a lot of art to to resolve consensus and that's exactly what where this work falls in it's consciousness resolution we need to make sure that we have explored you know the the best of that art with this particular prime that the root that is needed for building this consciousness is effectively guard which makes the primitive so yes on my side i would say yes to approve but to adopt but not yes to to put a final decision on the algorithm that would be fine i i can imagine that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "we can still correct the algorithms like the initial let's say command more specifically so some issues are left out of the algorithm uh like they are like external to the algorithm and perhaps it would make sense to actually for instance to get rid of some of the parameters to actually include like routing through the root and so on so uh yeah um i think adapting doesn't mean we agree on the solution adapting means we agree that this the working group wants to work on that topic so this seems totally in line with both of you michael you had a comment as well what you said is that i think that the documents should be adopted when they have a clear a clear articulation of a problem and i don't care whether the solution is sane or not um it's adoption is because the working group says yeah we got to solve this problem and so i agree with you completely thank you so we're running short on time but is any objection strong objection here to adopt this document if there's any speak up now otherwise we'll confirm on a mailing list as usual but we're in a good way towards adoption it seems okay and then we'll take care of the other questions later on the mailing list when we adapt we also need to say i would like to see if we adopt it for experiment or adopt it for star trek i don't know that we have to decide that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "at that point do we that's any at any point before my asg submission right i don't think we do but it's good to know okay okay okay thank you anna for about the next topic the enrollment priority we got a preview from conrad and where the contract proposed like two use cases global and flexible two no use cases uh two different way of addressing um for global we have this total control congestion but load balancing but for flexified we did not find any use case so far but for this document we will need more reviews and there are some open issues in github and then i think we can go through workgroup last call someone volunteered to review this draft they say that i think that uh probably uh the authors haven't really gotten together to discuss this enough and we probably should do that schedule something and do that um and i think it's fallen below the below the fold priority wise for us to review this um so clearly we want to have something in the solution and it's possible that what we proposed is simply unworkable but then i've heard other people say it's not a problem so um uh it might be that we have to re go step back and try again with capabilities or something i don't know okay thank you pascal yeah i think michael i think it's perfectly workable"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "and that we should ship it because the again why sun is asking for it and this draft fits what they want and they have an operational understanding of what they want so uh no i don't think we went outside the the one thing that that we missed was we at some point we thought that this value this priority that we are mean priority that we're passing should be uh changed on the way down and uh that made it unworkable effectively but if we agree that it's set by the root and just propagated without the change uh down you know the dios just what you expose on on the uh beacon can be based on that and can be different from that but but at least it's it's going down unchanged then it's perfectly workable and perfectly useful i think that that's what we yeah and i i don't think we really got that clearly into the document the last revision but um uh that's what i think we need to do and um if if if i just not sure i just wasn't sure that the authors were all in consensus about this at this point because i don't think we discussed this with class meeting i think we were michael it's just memory you know but my memory is that we were and that we agreed that we don't modify the value as we go down that was discussion at the last meeting that you know seeing the discussion at the license on the western side they really need the size of the deodorant express number for arts blah that's information that they do want and so they are explicitly wait waiting for this just the same way well then maybe we just need to to ship it is what you're saying is that that there yeah so um uh so i will get a new revision posted by the end of the month and if that isn't is good enough um did we start did we do a working group last call are we in the middle of working group no we're not we're just in the middle of nowhere we need one review more but yes with the new version"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "we can review that one and they go to the working room but we need the reviews great okay okay thank you very much okay we have two minutes over the hour thank you i think uh next other business thank you very much all americans yeah i think we achieved good good progress uh thank you very much everybody for your involvement and let's get back on track yes thank you thank you all bye bye talk to you soon see you soon you"
  }
]
