[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:06",
    "text": "[Music] yeah we should just over submitted but [Music] so Alexi sublimity but that tell intelligence not Brett do you have jabber capability oh that must be fightin words I do not have slice job or scribe you launched your jabber application and you go to tea pat jabber calm or mile you relay what people say and then we\u0027ve been summarized what\u0027s happening in the room thank you [Music] [Music] [Music] good [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:18",
    "text": "oh wow what\u0027s up with that Oh or late all right all right we\u0027re gonna get started welcome to the mile working group so we actually have a good turnout it\u0027s not bad you\u0027re smiling Roman all right next slide so it\u0027s kind of the end of the first day so I\u0027m presuming you\u0027ve attended some sessions so I don\u0027t have to go through the note well but standard procedures apply let\u0027s go through the agenda next slide so there is still also a c-cert draft but since the author isn\u0027t here we we took them off the agenda so there may be a little discord with what might be posted in the in the meeting materials so we\u0027ll go through the status of the working group thank you everybody for providing the feedback over the email in the last couple months to get the retargeting text done so we\u0027ll go through that real quick I will provide an update on the XMPP draft taki will you provide the update on the JSON draft and then if there\u0027s any other business we can discuss that last is there any other feedback on the agenda hearing none so blue sheets should be being passed around we very much appreciate Chris and Roman for being our note takers and Brett are you all set for being well we does anybody else have jabber capability you don\u0027t all right well I\u0027ll keep my fingers crossed Brett and I\u0027ve got my mail open in case "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:24",
    "text": "there is actually yeah I don\u0027t know how to get into the meat that goes oh no no so Brett to get into the meat can you see if there\u0027s no nobody\u0027s on the meat echo so I think Stephens getting busy for his wedding so we\u0027ll give him a pass okay so quick review of mile so what we tried to do also on the reach are during so we don\u0027t have the text up but everybody was everybody monitoring the mail group the draft text was there so basically mile for those of you who may be new to this group it is the focus is for us to define data representations for incidents effectively and also define the mapping for how we transport the incidents there are four the main data representation we\u0027ve been working on IO death as if the effective data model there have been some extension work on it as well as interoperability and implementation reports so there\u0027s a couple of drafts there that are listed for the transport we did very early on standardize on a restful interface that\u0027s read since then we\u0027ve been working on a couple of draft which is the next follow on on another restful interface called Roley as well as one that\u0027s XMPP based state your name please Bret Jordan isn\u0027t so P instead of rest oh yeah yes you\u0027re right sorry thank you for that correction and then there\u0027s been some guideline documentation and and practices for implementation of i/o death as well and that work on the guidelines as far as we know those have been completed so the outstanding items as we know them now although they\u0027re moving further along is the JSON and satiation for i/o death providing c-cert reports through Roly and then using an XMPP based fabric if you will for transporting incident information since then there was discussion about also showing mapping for other incident "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:25",
    "text": "formats like sticks and so if you look at the Charter text we\u0027re basically looking to recharter to do just that if you will right so as far as we know the recharter was submitted I think like three weeks ago and there were basically three or four comments only one blocking comment and one was because we we failed to get the acronym correct four sticks we had the acronym correct we just didn\u0027t have them correct as well as the link for it so we\u0027ve resolved that the next tell a chat to approve that we chartering is happening I believe November 21st so hopefully we\u0027ll get feedback from there okay so reviewing the milestones as far as we believe so thank you talking for going through some of the Shepherd right up we completed the working group last call for XMPP grid yes so we believe that has been completed taki has now submitted it the Shepherd right up and I\u0027ll provide a brief update in a little bit for what\u0027s been done and in version 8 without the main author for the role EC cert extension I believe we\u0027re still on track I\u0027ve not been able to sync up with him I am the Shepherd for that draft who has read the latest version okay I for the role EC cert I didn\u0027t see any updates from Stephen and I expect not to get any feedback from Stephen for a while well he could defer the honeymoon you know okay fine so we think we\u0027re still on track for that so the intent is to do a working group last call so I will can I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:27",
    "text": "just for the note takers can I have a show of hand for who is willing to review that draft so I have Roman Frank I just looked your name Mike sorry and your name and way so if we can get those reviews hopefully before ITF 104 that will give us some indication for whether we are on track for it to go through and then the JSON IO death I don\u0027t know that I saw many comments on it okay so so we\u0027ll have taki discuss that so as far as I can tell I believe we are on track if the recharter happens Bret am I to assume you would volunteer to work with Stephen is that correct for the Stix mapping yes I\u0027ve already volunteered to to do the bulk of that I just need help from Steven and Steven has not been available as he\u0027s been planning for or something okay well if there\u0027s something you need you can reach out to mr. Walter Meier as well since he\u0027s familiar with rolling what I\u0027m trying to say is you don\u0027t have to wait until the recharter becomes official you can have an individual draft right yeah so I\u0027ve already started draft especially on the the JSON based roli work started working on that and have quite a bit of text there I just have some questions for Steven or they whatever to help me make sure it all fits together and then start working on the sticks pieces of that to make sure that the sticks content can flow through really okay make sense oh good our ad is here no that\u0027s all right that\u0027s all right so Alexi what I had mentioned is that the recharter is going through the review right now and we submitted so the telogen is I think scheduled for the 21st of November and so what I was recommending the bread is that he doesn\u0027t need to wait for the recharger to happen to get any new work done I mean I cannot read the future but I suspect the chatter will happen I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:27",
    "text": "don\u0027t expect any problems from is gee I would have expected them once the original text was submitted and there was the one clear things and now their resolve is human yeah it will be plain saving I\u0027m being optimistic given the feedback right from the other IDs so University so I just wanted to point out something odd about the Caesar Rolie trap it doesn\u0027t actually show up on the mile documents page at all it doesn\u0027t show up as active draft as an adopted draft and it doesn\u0027t even show up as a related draft we did the proof to adopt it as a working group draft okay so Stephen just needs to like yeah it doesn\u0027t show yes he has to resubmit it as a working group draft right but part of the odd thing is it\u0027s not even listed as a related draft that\u0027s why it\u0027s an expired draft right and I assume you want to support not stone for it because I don\u0027t remember milestone for it either right we did put a milestone for it oh actually maybe you did yes right because one of the three milestones is it correct okay so we we agreed to adopt it and so we just need to thank you for pointing that out but once the draft expires it kind of yeah so I can check to see if maybe Dave can help with that no takers if you can note that that\u0027ll jog my memory too to reach out to Dave altameyer too as well as Steven okay so with that we\u0027ve talked about the mile status so let me take my chair head [Music] can you guys hear me okay that was really loud yes so I didn\u0027t make any slides for the XMPP draft because the only changes to me were more editorial so from that standpoint the difference between versions 7 \u0026 8 is that there are no longer any dependencies on the second draft given that it\u0027s effectively showing the mapping of how XMPP gets used to carry other incident data like i/o death there didn\u0027t seem to be any reason to keep the second terminology so that was removed the second thing was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:27",
    "text": "updating now that TLS one that three has an actual RFC had to update that reference to use that RFC the updated RFC and then the third one was trying to resolve the ID nets and the ID Nets recommended that the Jets that were used for guidelines for how we do things like service discovery and the pub/sub which is actually part of the base XMPP RFC draft but I call them out explicitly as the jep\u0027s so the ID Nets recommended that I put them in the informative as opposed to normative so that was the last change I made yes Alex can you can you repeat what why it just probably just because it doesn\u0027t recognize them as as external documents it just doesn\u0027t know about them okay if they need normatively you keep them normatively okay so don\u0027t worry about this just just in the shepherding write-up say we believe ID knits is wrong on this okay it\u0027s not like in it it\u0027s not artificial intelligence that just you know reads the universe and knows what\u0027s right and then I looked at how the precedence there were a couple of other RFC\u0027s and say aha and they moved anyway okay well you did submit a request publication of the document I do yeah normally first informative is a little bit of my favorite topic so I\u0027ll tell you something so tell me if it feels normative the way it\u0027s referenced I\u0027ll tell you okay yeah thank you so just yeah I was trying to get rid of the Nix is my bottom line in another working group there is an IMAP syntactic element is using text and brackets it ain\u0027t always triggers I didn\u0027t aids because it thinks it\u0027s reference but it\u0027s not so okay but this is why I didn\u0027t make slides because that\u0027s there\u0027s really no significant differences between the two versions [Music] the update of our draft it\u0027s a mapping to see ball and vision this is mapping to see ball and Jason Abhaya deck so this is currently version 6 this is the update in the last meeting in Montreal we discussed version flow of the draft so in the version from draft we adopted "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:28",
    "text": "seed et al instead of Jason and we already provided seed EDL but in the last meeting the seed et al data model I provided was not perfect I was not confident and so in these two or three months we were rewriting that by asking expert in Japan and we got some feedback from the expert and we thoroughly revised a document and updated now the version is 0 6 in this meeting we have 6 0 6 version so it has a refined version of the data model hopefully we can initiate the Skoll or we could ask more intensive review from people so major changes are summarized after this rice and in during our work we found some errata as well a writer of RFC 7970 as well they are also reported here on the CD CD v l front when I was talking with Hank apparently there\u0027s no tooling yet really for cvbl so maybe it\u0027s a tooling to actually consume the CD do I do any verification or use in other programming languages so he so so yeah it\u0027s real ambitious that we want to support it and I think CDLs is has a potential being really cool but we need like if we want people to use our standards they need to be like usable in programming languages so but at least we have some tool provided by casting that that if real friends from seaboard raft we are using that tool as well so we have something to rely on that my understanding but anyway as you said the draft is still draft mggg are still a draft if we have to wait until they finish their work we just great [Music] as I happen to be very direct responsible for the Seaboard working group TDL just went ITF last call so it\u0027s going to be on November\u0027s ice GTL chat so yeah hopefully it will will be done very soon I think that\u0027s really awesome and I think it\u0027s really great that it\u0027s going to get potentially a you know finish working group and get a number but and this is kind of where and I can just shut up and go away if this is you know me just ranting but unless it gets adopted by industry and it\u0027s a encode in libraries and it\u0027s in more than just one programming language it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:30",
    "text": "of no use and so until we get to that point it\u0027s really hard to call it out in our specs and say hey lis everyone go you see to be able to do all the verifications and I can\u0027t do it in just useful describing syntax really I don\u0027t think it makes it easier to explain how the structure of something is I mean yes some people would like to use it for cultivation and generating code but I think most people can benefit without just from the syntax so Brett as you were asking I just did a quick google there seaboard dot io / tools that HTML you might try that fracture Howie kaku kaku explained the basecode reason why we switch from Jason to see people because I am mr. the be our previous discussion because my the rhythm guide with this question because if because I know this Maya working for the threat intelligence exchange so it does not need so high efficiency or so scalability problems so why we why we should seek people because it\u0027s no no it\u0027s for efficiency for the so yeah at the beginning we didn\u0027t focus on seaboard at all we were focusing on Jason G is not easy to handle by computer that was a certain point but we wanted to define or chips syntax by using some schema but JSON schema was not useful not defined well so we decided to use a GDL but once we have a cvbl is easy to describe everything in Siebel as a result we have Siebel and she she bow and Jason mapping currently so it\u0027s a is it a trade-off because SIBO if you use people as a formatted transferred on a network or how to say Siebel is not where regional cannot be read read by person it\u0027s a binary code so I want to know the benefits the disadvantage user interface or C to InDesign if people want to use the output of mine working group people any hard to have some kind of user interface user interface try to integrate interrupt panel or XML or whatever so we don\u0027t care about it I guess so okay on the wire yeah only care on the wire that they ever doesn\u0027t need to be read a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:32",
    "text": "friend yeah but wreaths we can provide options that you didn\u0027t use either way so Christmas here it may be Alexi you know the answer if you don\u0027t talk a which is CDLs the schema definition language obviously you can generate see borbon isn\u0027t it also possible to generate json from that no actually you can directly describe Jason there is a specific if you look at CDL documentaries appendix saying you know if you just care about Jason you will lose some type information in Jason like but you can just use it straight with Jason this is my last comment I promise and then I will shut up but the whole purpose of defining these in specification documents and standards is so that we can do verification of content that we get to make sure that the content is compliant with some sort of specs before we try to parse it and do anything with it CDL yeah I look I just looked that up there\u0027s this you know Ruby kind of thing that kind of works and I know JSON schema is is old and it doesn\u0027t fully work or whatever but at least there is some library support and something other than Ruby so and I promise I won\u0027t say anymore okay so in this side I want to summarize the changes so data model refined second here at I wrote of JSON schema was corrected third example document is now available in not only JSON and also civil binary and also we have a title that draft was changed we added Sheba in addition to Jason and some errata was spotted so that is the changes so let me just what\u0027s really so from here I want to talk about to errata I found in the RFC 7970 because you know we are generating converter converting tool from XML to JSON we happen to find some kind of errata that was not compatible to Jason so this is the point the first point here current schema it described I exist but if we take a look as main body of the I own the question - it allows from the schema so we change it we propose to change it and we already filed this errata on the system so if it\u0027s ok I hope we can just change it to the best you guys tell me once huge agreement in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:35",
    "text": "the working group that this Sarat is correct and then now all approve it Romania Carnegie Mellon University yeah I think that Arad is correct so it\u0027s a bit not so easy to understand but in the main body takes at least one them to class have to appear but that was not related in schema in this schema none of that domain get a class yes so we just change it to yes it should be ok but again I have to ask confirmation from the audience to say from Romans yes for the record that\u0027s correct as well thank you I will respond to the Arado requester in my mailbox so we found errata and based on new correct schema we generate some kind of converter from XML to JSON and also JSON to XML so we have some implementation already and the document is almost ready and indeed the data model itself was already discussed before when we were working on Io tech person - but we do not see any issue to discuss here anymore so if nobody object I want to ask you whether we can proceed to the working group let\u0027s call the question to the audience and also to the chair okay besides Roman has anybody else had a chance to review this can you review it and so if you can provide comments let\u0027s see November can we do it before the holidays and then December yeah by end of December right so I\u0027ll put a working group last call and then if you can help review it then we will move forward for show you some of the snapshot of our implementation as Emil has some kind of size to display our prototype that can compare between JSON and XML "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:36",
    "text": "Oh teacher and I said did you update slides there now of course Oh [Music] [Music] okay hello and I\u0027m Neil so the key from an ICT I represent and I would\u0027ve JSON XML Khambatta which is continued from the the presentation in London this is overview yeah I mean to come back from Jason I add a document from XML I would eat up mint and vice versa and this is running code or radius Jason ionic draft and we are currently implementing new Khambatta including including I give hugs on dates in Bangkok but sorry and we cannot solve a rat\u0027s on previous implemented from basa based on python json schema object which which is presented in IKEA Londo so we try to try to implement the new Khambatta and we have almost implemented that using go exit 3 and make a case to this is new combated design and implementation but first we use xml schema which is included in IO deck RFC and we use access the make package to which is written in go and then generate the XML wrapper package including go struct for saving intermediate stage and we wrapped the combat appalled written all and written in gold and down and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:40",
    "text": "make that data and if and this song I owed a document and I realized this is not meant to combat that yeah XML on sorry from XML to JSON with go XML package and oh also go Jason package to a masher and mash up and if we we have to combat JSON from XML we use JSON package a malfunctioned and exhale package malfunction that\u0027s it and I will demonstrate my data okay three the combat is located in the private repository and github but in near future we will publish in in such Khambatta in public and we use my terminal and this is a beta Jeffrey and we have some examples XML and example JSON in the JSON I would\u0027ve draft and also in I would\u0027ve usage RFC and we use for example videos example of surely this is a biggest example in the usage RFC and this is a we use from pata from the these fields a converter from the this biggest XML to JSON okay finished and we have out right so this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:46",
    "text": "is a combat it without and I think it\u0027s very dated and correct okay back to the strike okay and this is the current status and future plan we have successfully combated or examples and this iota trapped by Diane bi-directionally and we also combated all examples in IO their usage guide as RFC and we will published that Khambatta in the talk public repository near future and we also planning to increment conversion to see both okay that\u0027s it thank you any questions looks good meal thank you so do you have a timeline for when you\u0027ll have an available public alright thank you I think that concludes our agenda are there any other items that anybody wants to raise discuss going once going twice I think we\u0027re done thank you everyone so I do look forward to getting feedback once we have to see certain draft and and for the JSON seaboard so thank you for volunteering Frank [Music] yeah oh yeah we need to make sure won\u0027t get feedback that way we have the email trail to say I don\u0027t know who else I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:47",
    "text": "don\u0027t know who else could help review we could ask PCPD em that way that might help Alexei yeah if you can you know Hank yeah that will at least that\u0027ll give us three so that\u0027s good thank you talking okay did everybody sign the blue sheet you "
  }
]