[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:19",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:21",
    "text": "if we could go ahead and get started hello folks can we um you could get your lunches quietly I think pretty much everybody has a lunch now and we can go ahead and get started just a tiny bit quieter okay I think we\u0027re you now have critical mass and enough quiet so welcome to the working group chairs forum for IETF 103 as a reminder this is indeed an IETF event so the note will still applies the agenda for today is welcome note well in administrivia and the following RFC format update Wes Hart occurs going to talk a little bit about the IETF guides program utility of milestone documents you\u0027ve seen a discussion on the working of chairs list about that a couple quick reminders from the Ombuds team and archiving strategy also that that was on the mailing list and then open mic so with that it\u0027s about to say where\u0027s Heather but there she is right there it\u0027s such an important update that apparently I get updated twice it\u0027s an update update okay let\u0027s see can I make the thing happen look at that I know there you go alright and we\u0027re done so I\u0027m assuming that people do know that I\u0027ve been working on changing the format of RFC\u0027s but I know okay mostly because I just feel like it you know uh I was I was apparently bored for the last six years it\u0027s taken to get this far um if if this actually is is new to you uh I\u0027m very sorry who are you but the we started this with a whole bunch of interesting project calls and the project has been going on for almost as long as I\u0027ve been RFC series editor the goals of the project are to have XML as the the unchanging underlying format this is actually very common in the publishing industry most publishers do start with XML and then just transform it into whatever it needs to be transformed into XML is very good about that the outputs are plain text which means not marked up no links that kind of thing PDF a 3 which is the archival target the kind of things that I\u0027ll ship to the National Library of Sweden the Computer History Museum those folks that are our archival partners and can store our stuff properly and HTML with a with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:23",
    "text": "a proper CSS file SVG line art black and white not color not grayscale black and white will be allowed and non ASCII characters will be allowed also the reason I asked for some time today is because we\u0027ve made a lot of progress on this turning it from hey won\u0027t it be fun to talk about it in the community - no really we have tools that were actively testing and in fact probably one of the the most visible things that was just released last week is the HTML 4 matter so for all those people that don\u0027t really care about the specification per se they\u0027re not interested in how the specification turns into yet another text file you\u0027re probably more interested in the HTML what that looks like what it behaves like things like that there are a couple things still in progress where it says prep tool think ID nits that\u0027s that\u0027s still being worked on and PDF a3 output is also still being worked on the goal is to have all the tooling done by the end of this year whereas that means the developer will have it all code complete and at that point it sits in both community and RPC testing phases so the HTML publication format let\u0027s talk about that a little bit because honestly I expect that to be what most people end up looking at from from day to day if you would like to play with this if you would like to see what this looks like against your drafts that the updated XML RFC has been posted on the experimental page so that YouTube can be playing with this to your heart\u0027s content and that is a screenshot of what the HTML format looks like on a what I consider sort of a regular widescreen what this was my laptop with my browser open fairly wide so now you\u0027re looking at not just the HTML version you\u0027re also looking at the CSS that was designed several years ago to go along with it that said if you narrow the screen down quite a bit you\u0027ll see the table of contents turns into a a drop-down menu the text is all reflowable the the usual sensible behavior that has been on the web for a really long time we just haven\u0027t played catch up to it so all of that is fine and good and lovely but there\u0027s still a couple details on how to get there from here so we friend in the RFC editor we\u0027re looking at what it means to transition from v2 where we have essentially one input one output to v3 which for us is one input and a variety of outputs with a lot more features we have several "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:23",
    "text": "goals in the transition we of course want to continue publishing things that is kind of why we\u0027re here we want to minimize the backlog recognizing there will be a backlog during transition because this is a lot of heavy lifting on the editor side lean want to spend more time with the new format making sure that the quality of what we\u0027re publishing is what everyone would expect we do want to have a flag day where we cut over from v2 output to v3 output we don\u0027t think having you know a a series of 10 20 30 RFC\u0027s where they\u0027re intermixed some are purely v2 and don\u0027t have HTML they don\u0027t have PDF a 3 and other RFC\u0027s that do having that all mixed in sequence is we don\u0027t think is a very good idea at all and we also want to try and avoid having both v2 and v3 in off 48 at the same time the RFC editor processes do change a bit the database changes the citation library adjusts a little bit as well so there\u0027s like I said there\u0027s a lot of moving parts that we are considering and there are goals to get right there\u0027s different components to the transition for us of course there\u0027s the operations in queue management which is what I think a lot of you tend to see from day to day there\u0027s the education both internal and external making sure that the staff themselves know how to be working on all of this as well as making sure that the off 48 instructions are clear for how it\u0027s going to be going forward and we\u0027re expecting a fair amount of IT support as people say wait what huh how do you do this again and being able to answer all those questions it\u0027s going to be it\u0027s gonna be a significant time saying but pretty important so do you want questions in the middle or at the end or not at all oh that\u0027s such great question that was good okay I I\u0027m the previous light actually I was just wondering if it was a goal or an on goal to avoid having a gap in numbers or a large gap in order to make the the cutover works really it is no point if there\u0027s a small gap I won\u0027t lose sleep over it I\u0027m not interested in the large gap so I wouldn\u0027t say I would want to go from whatever the latest one is now argue let\u0027s just say 500 I wouldn\u0027t want to jump from 8,500 to 10,000 or you know I don\u0027t I don\u0027t think that\u0027s a good idea Michael Richardson HTML looks beautiful sorry to disabuse you I only rarely look at HTML versions of draft myself my the most important thing turns out to be RFC DIF because I don\u0027t want to read it all again and I guess we now have an XML div that is going to be visible and I guess "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:24",
    "text": "I think that whatever you would like to do to make that more available sooner would probably make people very happy to say why can\u0027t I be in the v3 process already that\u0027s just my comment I thought that was there yeah RFC XML diff so it\u0027s out there that\u0027s the word I\u0027m looking for it\u0027s at least you can you can look at it you can deal with it okay you can even run it locally yes and you cannot yes I believe so and you can also talk to Jim who\u0027s I saw him somewhere coming into the room oh he\u0027s are you kidding you can also just talk to Jim because he allocated and Roberts on the the mic right go ahead Robert all right can you hear me yes okay I did just want to let let you know that we did have some some remote folks and I was wondering who asked the the first question who was up in front of Michael Richardson Benjamin all right thanks good I tend to consume more and more the product of your work on my phone as opposed to on a PC and while the text forms it\u0027s pretty unreadable it gets cut in the middle of nothing the HTML is not too good either I end up using the PDF and I just wonder as you we work the HTML if you could take some care about your visitation tools which could not be pcs or our screens and see how the result works on yes that that\u0027s absolutely something that has been taken into account such that we as you resize the screens as you change that it should still look good and be readable and reflowable fantastic ok so what does this mean for you as working group chairs as people who assign documents Shepard\u0027s as you work with authors because what we\u0027re looking at is we\u0027re expecting this to really start we\u0027re looking at production in six to nine months that means a lot of the drafts that you\u0027re working on now are going to be impacted by this and we need your help these are a series of quotes you know prizes to people who can identify all of them the using XML using SVG that offers you so much more flexibility and power in what you do in the documents thing you\u0027ve had before we can\u0027t we the RFC editor cannot fix everything that you might do today we know that it\u0027s quite possible to do if you don\u0027t know how to do tables if you find the tables too hard you just put them in artwork and say yeah it\u0027s just art worked it and and it\u0027s going to output into you know something that looks like a typewriter written table and you\u0027ve all been fine with that you can\u0027t do that anymore and we are really "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:24",
    "text": "going to rely on you for assistance to make sure that semantically incorrect things aren\u0027t done we\u0027re going to try and capture them in in the tooling as much as we can but we need your help making sure that this stuff is saying should I finish this slide Michael or do you want it okay and that goes into the the second item let me re-emphasize we need your help in the review there\u0027s going to be a lot of changes a lot of how does this read for you how does it look for you did this transform the way that you expected it to and the editors will need your help with that and again this is something that we\u0027re starting to look at come down the road pretty soon now and will impact the jobs that you probably are working on today Michael I had two questions so the first is about SVG so at one point I had a duck draft and someone said hey you should try it with the SVG because this is you have this beautiful picture and it was even in SVG and then we realized the whole point of using SVG was so that we could color the boxes differently so that we could see them and I went oh okay that didn\u0027t work so we did it in ASCII oh and that kind of we went back to there the question is whether cross hatching of some kind is welcome in SVG\u0027s - essentially we can\u0027t grayscale it but can we put patterns and things is that welcome or undesirable that would actually be fine okay I mean the main reason we said absolutely no to color is from a from a publisher perspective color is insanely difficult and requires a whole new level of training a whole new level of expectation and given our readership color is just a problem I totally understand so the other question I have is I\u0027m trying to understand so so I have a working group author uploads XML to the data tracker is there now or will there be a way for us to see how that would transform to PDF a for instance long before you see the document so that we could actually make a decision in the working group whoa that table ething artwork that you did really has to be a table or something else is that that coming or that\u0027s just I haven\u0027t seen it yet or I have i okay to be honest I\u0027ve assumed that that would be part of it okay I don\u0027t think I\u0027ve ever explicitly heard that it would be part of what people see in the data track okay so so it may it may for initially be the case that working group chairs may have to pull down xml and run it through the tool chain somehow 2z what what whether it\u0027s going to look and it sounds like the transition you\u0027re telling me it sounds to me like it\u0027s gonna happen within the next six to ten months and so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:24",
    "text": "if we have a document that is in you know o - and we expect go to last call next summer it\u0027s probably gonna wind up in the new thing we better we should probably get that done now rather than at the end of the process idea yes ELISA Cooper I just wanted to make sure I understood something he said you\u0027re talking about a complicated table then often tell people to put it in artwork instead right now but then and that the new for my you can\u0027t do that is there a reason you can\u0027t put a table in an SVG you draw a table okay I don\u0027t necessarily know that it would be a good idea because I think there\u0027s still a lot of concern about how SVG would display in the plain text and so if it would end up being no you really need to look at the HTML for this yeah I guess it could work it just doesn\u0027t seem like how it should work okay Jim is shaking his head so I\u0027m gonna I\u0027m gonna also let him try me on this really also s because I had a conversation earlier this week wasn\u0027t about putting a yang tree model in SVG so I\u0027m just well or you can have nasty line breaks anyway that\u0027s why we\u0027re talking about it but yeah okay I\u0027m just interested to understand what what is what is being anticipated as far as what goes in mr. G okay in order to be an end run around the document Oh Indy malice continuing on SVG are there are you going to be recommending any particular SVG creation tools yes okay and when will you tell us what they are probably the one that we have the most experience with right now is Inkscape okay there may be others I actually am interested in hearing from the community what they find useful and how it works okay and tain\u0027t a challenge I think it\u0027s spider-man Helen Keller and Casablanca int Jim shock yeah actually first of all for Alice\u0027s thing you can put ASCII art in today and if point in fact if you want or in the new b3 format if in point of fact you want to actually get that artwork displayed in a text file you will need to do both the SVG and some sort of ASCII version as well because SVG will not render at all into text now the reason I\u0027m actually got up here I\u0027m starting a new document and I want to be really foolish I can upload an HTML file "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:29",
    "text": "I can upload a text file that I generate from XML RFC is there any reason why I should not do that not not upload the XML until the data track gets fixed it will not be able to process the XML but you know uploading the HT but I can load up the dot txt file in the dot HTML file I can\u0027t think of any reason not to I mean I would look at the virtual Robert to sanity check me on that but it seems like a sane idea to me David black to ask about all 48 transition as I think I saw a note in previous slide that said you didn\u0027t want to run the 48 on both formats at the same time working group chairs know that that 48 hours is a goal sometimes we meet it and sometimes it means 48 days and still it\u0027s still counting okay you got it I heard 48 weeks here what are your plans to deal with a and a and our 48 in the old format that\u0027s badly Oaks badly over running because you know it\u0027s coming your way we do know something like that\u0027s going to happen we\u0027re going to look to a certain amount of working group chair held to say okay make this go faster make this move because we want this out of queue if necessary we can discuss having the editors help shift this from a V to thing to of III thing that may certainly be a possibility for some things I would suggest making contingency plans along the lines just discussed that when push comes to shove there may be an auth 48 that\u0027s got to go back up and go forward in the new format fairness Barbara stark yeah along that line I mean one of the main reasons I see things kind of hanging out and the queue is waiting for a reference and I know for a fact that we\u0027ve got some things hanging around waiting for a reference it\u0027s right now you know in working group last call and you know this ref is sort of a separate kettle of newts and if we\u0027re not going to try and clear out miss Roth as as part of this concern if it\u0027s in miss Roffe and we go from v2 to v3 then what comes in will convert to v3 once it\u0027s released from miss Roth and six to nine months is kind of a big range do we have any timeframe for when we think there will be a more narrow a narrower timeframe ask me in March I mean to be perfectly honest I mean when I first looked at this project I was thinking it was a two to three year project so I I have no confidence in my "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:31",
    "text": "dates at all so six to nine months is about as narrow as I\u0027m going to be able to do at this point and I guess there\u0027s going to be a full set of tools available to go along with this yeah that will be available well the tools should be done and released by the end of this year it\u0027s all the rest of it the education the testing to make sure there\u0027s no fatal bugs the things that\u0027s what\u0027s that\u0027s what\u0027s feeding into the six to nine month component okay Jim shot actually Robert may be wanting to say the same thing that I am the chip all the tools are actually up and you can download them with Pip and start using them today that are available so I was actually going to respond to Jim\u0027s question when he was at the mic before on uploading the text or HTML or even PDF versions of the draft when you don\u0027t have it the version of the XML that the data tracker can ingest and automatically convert for you sure there\u0027s no problem in doing that but I suspect by the time we get to the point where you would want to you we will have changed the submit interface on the data tracker to be aware of whether or not you\u0027re submitting v2 or v3 XML and the problem the state that you\u0027re worried about won\u0027t exist for very long Rick Tyler on the SPG subject I\u0027ve done a little playing with SPG over the years it\u0027s a fantastic tool it\u0027s brilliant I mean you can embed JavaScript you can do dynamic transitions and animations and it\u0027s all valid SVG is valid tiny SVG I thought was my question are you you\u0027re specifying tiny profile are you we started with tiny profile and made it tighter there is an SVG spec out there that for us super thank you part 2 yang tree models every single working group is going to go oh how do I format my young tree models as this ASCII art do I do and SVG can we have a definitive statement or maybe even a tool to just make your lives easier before you get yet another sort of hand-sketched yang tree model or I would like that I don\u0027t feel qualified to demand that of the community so this is something this is a good idea and I want to talk to the community about okay well what which one is right I don\u0027t know I don\u0027t know but it\u0027s definitely good feedback he\u0027s been was here I didn\u0027t see him the response "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:39",
    "text": "in the back of the room for people who are remote is that that was Lou Berger saying you met my chair he would be working with his coop co-chair to figure out what to do just move on yeah I understand that everybody\u0027s young tree models on the mind there are about 50 other things that you want to generate SVG from or even just this sauce takes whatever so most of us actually have to change that generate what what you get to see and of course these two trains also need to migrate and one aspect of migrating is just getting them to work with v3 which I think were really easy but the other interesting part is actually making use of the capabilities in a good way so for instance anybody will ever send a pic it uses MSC gen to make figures but if there is a canonical way to put a message and input into authoring schemes then then we publish I agree on how to do that so that two different authors that come together to write something if you can write a message and that the other guy can also process and so on so there\u0027s a lot of infrastructure on the authoring side that we have to invent in the next year or so and the reason I came up here is just to point out there is one focal point for doing that development which was the RFC markdown mailing list and it\u0027s not just about markdown it\u0027s actually about the authoring chain and I expect that people will post experiences with their favorite authoring chains for generating for SVG for generating markdown on that maybe this and I would ask people who want to participate and that I\u0027d want to have nicer RFC\u0027s in a year or so from now to join that mailing list and join the discussion thank you I would encourage that as well because I RFC editor can\u0027t dictate authoring tools that\u0027s gonna have to come out of the community and I really want it to come out of the community I want this to happen I think the authoring tools are very important but um but you all need to do that from gondwana I don\u0027t actually have a question I just wanted to say thank you for taking this project on it\u0027s a huge project and on behalf of everyone has to raid these things I really appreciate anything to make them better mercenary does the XML format allow selective inclusion of either SVG or ASCII art fallback depending on the conversion tools target output so that you can get SVG if the target is HTML or you could ask your if the target is text is that supported in the XML format or now I don\u0027t know it is it that way I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:41",
    "text": "mean I guess that would be part of the yeah is that is that mandated is that something that chairs should start mandating authors to support because since that there\u0027s a lot of text only viewers and if a lot of a content just doesn\u0027t get rendered at all because it\u0027s SVG it seems like a problem for for consuming those documents um I do think it is an interesting challenge for consuming the documents one of the things that when I was first putting this idea together is to just put in there a note saying if you want to see this diagram you have to go over there in some cases that may be fine because it may be purely example and not necessary the text in other cases you\u0027re right I think that\u0027s terrible but I don\u0027t see a way around it and maybe maybe less strong than mandating maybe we can have like a hackathon tool that would you know generate try to scrape SVG and generate sqr as best as possible maybe even reverse take existing ASCII art XML drafts and try to SVG of them seems like maybe you have a viable I think yeah yeah I don\u0027t know anything that goes the other direction because because but I know there\u0027s a skewed SVG out there all right Thank You Heather is Wes I don\u0027t see what I I can\u0027t see if there he is alright I\u0027m here to talk about the ietf guidance program hopefully I\u0027m covering what Karen wanted me to cover we\u0027ll find out so a couple of quick things first of all I\u0027m gonna give a brief introduction on what it is and then tell you sort of the changes that occurred somewhat recently in the last year or two but the the purpose of the IETF guides program is to really introduce newcomers to the IETF and a gentle graceful friendly kind of way and importantly to encourage participation one of the things if if you were like me when you joined the IETF you probably didn\u0027t speak for a while you probably didn\u0027t interact much for a while so we\u0027re trying to increase that participation at a quicker rate and and to educate people about how the IETF works how the IETF process works and how the IETF culture works because as you know we\u0027re a little different than many other organizations this program really consists of and I should mention I am one of the co-chairs I\u0027ve been really called a co-leader we don\u0027t have a really good title me and Neil\u0027s 10 overs is the other one we\u0027ve we take it on we dual purpose the role so it consists of two really two parts it consists of the IETF guides that used to be called the mentoring program it used to be called IETF Mentors we received feedback that mentors the the new participants were expecting a whole lot more almost to be handheld through all of the working groups so he changed the name this IETF to guides just to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:43",
    "text": "give them a better sense of some resource that they can go to and the guides program is really sort of a one on one kind of a sign help and early introduction those guides meet with their new with their partner newcomer on Sunday and give them an introduction about idea IETF works so internet drafts work all that kind of stuff answer any sort of questions then it\u0027s really somebody to greet you face to face we train partner people that can you know arrive on your the same day before the ATF starts the other half of the program is the quick connections which you may or may not have heard of it runs every Sunday night and it\u0027s sort of like if you took speed dating and you crossed it with the ITF guidance program you end up with quick connections it\u0027s an hour long session that occurs right before the newcomers meet-and-greet which you guys are aware of and we rotate people every currently you have it set for every six minutes so you they get an introduction to meet lots of new people lots of people that have long experience the IETF and may have some valuable wisdom to pass on and again that\u0027s an introduction sort of the same sort of topics had the IETF works who topics of interest to various people as well as how the IETF culture is actually quite different and you know we tell things like read the drafts read the drafts ahead of time understand that people yell at microphones and things like that so last thing is really so what do we need you know why why am i here in the first place a to introduce you to the changes where it\u0027s now called guides we need volunteers and you know to be perfectly honest the working group chairs are perfect candidates for volunteering we always get more signups than we do guides we often pair a couple of people they\u0027re willing with multiple people but the reality is is it doesn\u0027t take that much time you get to meet new people in the process and you really get to increase participation we try and match people with both language and where they\u0027re from as well as topics of interest it\u0027s not possible 100% of the time but if we want the IETF to succeed right if we want to keep pushing new documents and new paths forward we\u0027ve got to get participation increasing otherwise if we don\u0027t get newcomers coming in and actively participating eventually this organization will go away we also need and so this is my plea to all of you we really need to create a positive environment in every working group so people are encouraged to participate and it\u0027s not easy you know many of us have been around for many years and the reality is I had in fact I\u0027m late to this meeting because of newcomers talking to me about how they have a hard time approaching some working groups in helping they do they either don\u0027t know what to do they\u0027re too scared to participate when they see you know senior veterans having vigorous discussions at microphones you may hear more about that for me tonight at the plenary because it turns out that especially in some groups it\u0027s a real problem so the best thing that you can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:43",
    "text": "do is is even just at the end of the meeting say are there any newcomers that Wistar participates because they don\u0027t even know that reviewing a draft is so important right they don\u0027t know that even finding grammatical and you know edit some things like that is incredibly valuable and so I had people come up to me I don\u0027t know how to get started so I\u0027d suggest you know being able to ask are there any newcomers that you know wish to participate and then and then tell them we\u0027re where work as needed you guys are the experts there you know which drafts are in review which drafts are you know need the most attention right now which ones don\u0027t have enough editors which ones don\u0027t have enough people contributing texts and ideas there\u0027s actually a whole bunch of people that want to help they just don\u0027t know how I think that is it any questions or do you have did I miss anything no you got it but I think we have a question coming what a comment just occurred to me in th vwg we have taken david black t VG we\u0027ve taken to putting up a slide that said please review documents that I think I think it comes very shortly after the note well slide let me suggest that we produce a version of the note well deck that contains a note well slide plus a please review slide that includes a little bit of encouragement to newcomers and then we can just all start using that everywhere yeah I think that that encouragement to newcomers is the key right because a lot of times the newcomers look at that you know please review these documents and you\u0027re like well I\u0027m not expert enough to review it and and they don\u0027t realize that any perspective is gonna be helpful right and if if that were part of the standard note well slides you\u0027ll probably find that please review and newcomers especially encourage getting used by default in a lot of working groups yeah yeah there\u0027s a lot of help to be had if you just reach out and find them alright thank you alright thank you thank you just a couple minutes rate of things the first how long do you expect this to take I\u0027ll go have so pretty fast okay and then the second is these these are mended right yeah okay excellent thank you okay I wanted to get some feedback from working group chairs about working group milestones and dates and and utility of the dates in particular okay so go ahead and feel free to hop up to microphone as soon as you see something you want to talk about the first question is what value do the milestones serve this actually feedback we got on the working group chairs list it\u0027s you know so it\u0027s a list deliverables it\u0027s a tool for the chairs to use to manage the working group it\u0027s a mechanism for communication between the chair is an area director to say what things are supposed to be coming out these are apparently on controversial enough that everyone\u0027s still sitting so what value to the dates themselves serve so one of the things is been pointed out is that external "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:44",
    "text": "entities might use these for planning although in practice they probably learned pretty quickly that they shouldn\u0027t I just the the fact that most of our milestones end up getting pretty quickly out of date and aren\u0027t really kept up to date after that I have had an area director say that they have successfully used them in at least one case to to dry working progress to actually check in with the terrors and asked you know are you on track to make this date so apparently they can be used for that it\u0027s probably more the exception than the rule so this one I actually want people to stand up and talk about if anyone cares so do having inaccurate dates in the tracker cause harm so one might presume that you know any external entities that rely on them like stos government governmental entities might be harmed by this in some way and it is kind of embarrassing for the IETF I think at least okay go barber stark um so as someone who works in a lot of places that are not the ietf other organizations my input is everybody has the same issue out there it does not cause harm to the reputation of the IETF in my opinion it can cause issues for those external entities and in my opinion that\u0027s sort of their problem if they\u0027re really interested in it they there are ways of more closely tracking you know just go look at the working group it\u0027s online it\u0027s public look at the state the document is in that you\u0027re interested in now with that said in other organizations we tend to use more quarterly deliverables as opposed to dates okay thanks that sounds as Braun gondwana that sounded like an argument for being more fuzzy with the dates but still for date Oh my position on dates is there kind of like democracy there better than the alternatives it doesn\u0027t mean they\u0027re great but the the alternative of not having any anything to measure yourself against I think would be significantly worse than having some kind of expectation and then being able to compare against that expectation later to say are we on track to what we expected or are we wildly out that\u0027s better than not having any milestones at all yeah thanks David scanners II so I became a working group chair a little over a year ago and when I did our so the DNS SD is a working group the milestones were all in the past and some of them it was easy I could say oh we that\u0027s done check who the other one was hmm I should put a date that\u0027s not negative on here but I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:45",
    "text": "don\u0027t know what to put so I\u0027ll deal with this tomorrow it\u0027s been a year I still haven\u0027t done it so they\u0027re just further in the past now and I don\u0027t really feel a motivation to do it because I haven\u0027t maybe perhaps because they\u0027re all in the past had anyone rely on these or used them for anything so in my personal experience I just kind of ignore them okay thanks Justin Dean I have had a similar experience with falling behind on certain draft States or drafts that aren\u0027t getting a lot of action and I imagine a lot of you are like me where you\u0027re not always working on IETF stuff and then it just kind of phase in the background I would really like the data tracker to send me to be able to set it up so there\u0027s send me updates at my discretion if I say this gonna be in the state for two weeks send me an email in two weeks remind me and then keep sending me that email until I take care of it I think that would be an automatic motivation for me to remind myself hey this is still there I may need to get it done instead of having to proactively go to the data tracker and look at what I have to do and figure out what it is and I think that would help a lot in terms of automatically getting people to update themselves thank you that\u0027s that\u0027s very insightful just a small anything justice movie because Smitty comment my stones a piece back carve in stone and moveable real what renaming this into a road map or something more fluffy okay yeah Ben Campbell speaking as an individual there\u0027s an effort in creating the dates for a few people with effort in maintaining the dates obviously not for everybody effort for no purpose its harm and then the second ones just from a personal perspective is when I\u0027ve been in working group chair and I was responsible for a whole bunch of dates that were out I found it stressful I didn\u0027t do much about it but I kind of found it vaguely embarrassing and my general viewpoints there is if we\u0027re not getting a lot of utility out of them publishing incorrect information is a negative I don\u0027t know if I would qualify harm but it\u0027s a negative and it would be better to not publish them if we\u0027re going to publish incorrect information if we\u0027re going to make something useful out of them or change them into something fuzzier we\u0027re calling them correct or incorrect it\u0027s a little bit unclear that\u0027s probably fine but just putting dates out there that no one cares about everyone knows that are wrong it seems like a waste of bit Heather Flanagan individual contributor i partly agree with Ben bad data is worse than no data from someone who "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:45",
    "text": "often works with implementers and people who don\u0027t go to IETF meetings having something they\u0027re either the road map style or dates is actually helpful to for for them to know okay is this being worked on can I expect anything coming out of this any time soon and they don\u0027t necessarily have time to sift through an entire mailing list for that they\u0027re not here to develop the standards they\u0027re here to purely to consume it and I do think that keeping in mind implementers who are not standards developers is a kind of important reason why we\u0027re here Thanks I just want to do a really quick check so you you have two more questions beyond this one I do yeah so y\u0027all might want to talk really fast okay Watson I think it should be on a per working group basis so if any data is provided and also the granularity of the day we could be q1 2019 first half 2019 anytime in 2019 okay not only the fact that a milestone refers to a date which is back in the past doesn\u0027t mean that the milestone is useless I think it means that it was either badly set or that the working group is late been Caidic I think can\u0027t just said this but you\u0027re the explicit point of having an option for a working group to have milestones with no dates it\u0027s probably worthwhile okay Richter dates can be beneficial even when you blast past them to be able to turn around to the working group and say look two years ago we said we\u0027d have this done come on let\u0027s get that review you know you can use it as a carrot as well as a snake Gastineau and some of the utility is actually in the relative information that emerge so this gives you so somebody is trying to do this first and the other thing next so I think that that\u0027s an important utility I wouldn\u0027t want to lose when looking at another working group the reputational damage we get we get from not being able to keep our promises and whether we publish these promises in a milestone list or in an email to another sto that says this will be done by the end of this year doesn\u0027t make a difference we need to get better in meeting our promises and finally if we work in group shares were being managed somebody would sit down with us at every IETF meeting and go through this milestone list for three minutes and manage us barbar stark in addition to quarterly one other thing i wanted to say was in other organizations we generally update our dates every face-to-face meeting "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:48",
    "text": "that is leaders simply as a matter of course to keep the information relevant just update it at every face-to-face meeting any who does that huh which group does that the project leads okay this is one of the working which in this case would be a working group chair okay we just go in and you know at the working group you know say what are your new dates okay run Gondwana again you heard from the room how much this room appreciates the idea of being held accountable to anything but I would argue that a bad plan is better than no plan maybe bad data is worse than no data but a bad plan is better than no plan and that these dates are a plan and their documentation of a plan and some kind of accountability and to take them away because we\u0027re not being accountable is kind of the opposite of a goal it\u0027s each set throwing your hands up and saying well we\u0027re incapable of doing it so let\u0027s not try and I disagree with that but better off s I said argument said updating our milestones if there are milestones in the past that we haven\u0027t hit then that is a time for the working group chairs and the working group to look at it and set new milestones not to say we can\u0027t put that on milestones okay Robert just very slightly off topic since people have got this in their heads right now it might be a good time to jump to the data tracker and look at the status report for your working group or the page of status reports for all working groups and see how well those are maintained as well okay thanks so this slide actually has been I think commented on just we winged it in all the other conversations that it was suggested that maybe we have lower resolution or have active management for example once every ITF meeting going through the milestones and pushing them forward either as part of the working group or with your area director Hogan\u0027s on the next one we didn\u0027t kind of cover would it hurt to remove dates that was that was commented on a couple of times but if anyone has any other points they\u0027d want to make along the lines of with this like what would be the harm of removing them beyond the I heard lack of accountability being concerned and this would you know if we sort of go through you know having things in order to have an idea of what the priority of things are relative to each other being valuable they\u0027re given I think there\u0027s actually a little bit of information also that if it\u0027s if there\u0027s some item is in three months away it\u0027s probably very quick even if it was put three months in for one like many bits but and if you add might put two more two years in forward you know they speak a hard issue that requires time so how much is you have been working on some item is actually how much further further away we put some item is also important so indication of tax task complexity it\u0027s a good point thanks David scan Ozzie from the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:49",
    "text": "previous comments remember in the room it sounds like we don\u0027t all use the muscles the same way and we don\u0027t all agree on how to use them or how important the dates are so maybe having the option for some people to have dates some people do not have dates some people have thinner karate might be a way for it that works for everyone it wouldn\u0027t be the same in all working groups that could be a bad thing but maybe that\u0027s the sweet spot okay all right I think we actually gotten to pretty much everything that I wanted to get to on that on that first like so we wind the rest of the other slides so thank you very much the input I\u0027ll be trying to sort of synthesize this into a concrete proposal and taking it to the working group chairs list in a bit thanks [Music] howdy folks um so I come up here because there have been some things that have come up on the Ombuds team recently and I thought it would be useful to remind you that there are certain things we don\u0027t want to do and certain things that you can do to help that don\u0027t involve us so you have a lot of levers to pull when someone\u0027s being a jerk in the context of a working group you can always take the mic away from someone you can always ban them from a mailing list those are extreme but you can also as chair say hey stop that you\u0027re being a jerk this is useful both from the keeping the working group moving along and getting their work done but also from other participants who we were just talking about newcomers who might be put off by someone being a jerk even if they are not the direct target of that jerkiness we are as an Ombuds team glad to help out if you need some advice on how to do so we are glad to intervene if it gets personal but we kind of separate the if someone\u0027s interfering in the working group process in public that\u0027s a chair thing to handle if someone\u0027s doing something interpersonally especially off list that\u0027s definitely an Ombuds team thing to handle so we\u0027re kind of hoping that we can encourage you to keep an eye out for people getting a little hostile on lists and start doing a little proactive helping them to be calmer anybody got concerns or questions about doing that kind of stuff cool easy [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:50",
    "text": "okay so the next one on the list is archiving strategy and I just put all up here I know that there was a conversation started on the mailing list and a couple other issues have come up related to this and so my question for discussion is is there such a thing as archiving too much do what do we need to archive on what do we not need to archive and in particular I was curious about for example recordings associated with virtual interims because they\u0027re currently recorded in a number of different tools so I meant to look up who started the conversation on the mailing list and I don\u0027t remember who it was so I was hoping that we could just have a short conversation on what we thought about archiving and is there such a thing as too much Barbara stark I wasn\u0027t the person who started it but I was really glad it was started because I had exactly the same question I just hadn\u0027t asked it and that is with their interim calls we have these you know on the instructions it says chair remember to hit that record button it\u0027s there and it\u0027s in the template of the minutes and it\u0027s like hit that record button and it\u0027s like okay I hit that button I have a recording and now what so that\u0027s in if you\u0027re using the WebEx um can you hit the red button so that Robert can speak whenever he wants since I\u0027m over here now so it\u0027s already a different red button but are all virtual interims are not using the same WebEx tools right you\u0027re talking about the WebEx tool provided by our YouTube by IETF uh-huh okay Robert were you gonna answer something related to that no okay well then I\u0027ll put you behind Michael Michael Richardson so until recently the WebEx recordings required some windows program to play them back and convert them and I tried this once it was like a 3d long thing to transcribe an hour-long meeting and I just seemed useless to me because it was basically because it needed to coordinate all the who said what and this input and that input and I sort of like wow now my impression is they come out as MPEG video but maybe I\u0027m alone Alexis shaking her head shaking her hand I thought I saw it was in peg or something yeah is there now well that\u0027s nice to know but the point is that they were they a command-line tool to do it so we can you know spin up "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:50",
    "text": "the cloud and get it to do this for us but but until without that kind of thing my feeling is they\u0027re completely useless okay and but there\u0027s two other points you can\u0027t hit the record button unless you have the Java version running on your desktop so if you\u0027re leading something from something not a Windows computer you can\u0027t even start the recording if you decide to have a virtual interim with something a little less more stable than WebEx then you may or may not have archiving or recording either so my take is that this stuff is interesting and useful for the chairs for the next three weeks to get some notes made and afterwards are probably useless for the thing we need probably a two-page summary or draft minutes and that\u0027s way better from an ether pad in my my opinion okay okay Robert I was going to suggest even for the working group sessions at the plenary meetings that we have right now we\u0027re we\u0027re keeping the recordings forever and I would propose that that is a mistake and is in fact putting us organizationally at more risk than a lot of us would believe and we should consider putting a timeout on how long we keep recordings there is benefit to having the recording around for some period time I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s six months I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s two years whatever that is to make sure that we can follow up and get the work done while the recording is still timely relevant and but but past that point the minute should be good enough to serve the purpose and we don\u0027t want to leave ourselves in a position where we run ourselves a foul later of some new variant of the right to be forgotten laws that causes massive amounts of scrambles to go destroy or edit or whatever these huge data sets that we\u0027ve gathered okay our um barber Stark and so one thing that you might consider is in this the download I\u0027m talking about is the draft of the interim meeting minutes or agenda and in the draft agenda it says hit the button if that were removed that would cause a lot less confusion if there\u0027s nothing being done with the recording because so if just the sentence of remember to hit that recording button were removed that would be useful right go ahead Lee Berger I think I just heard Robert say we shouldn\u0027t keep recordings of our sessions indefinitely if I heard that correctly I would like to disagree with it if I misheard what he said I apologize for coming right okay Robert so he might get back in a queue I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:52",
    "text": "putting myself in the queue with apologies I think especially for the virtual in terms that it we\u0027re keeping a lot of stuff and I would switch over to like the newcomers like we do to what new comer webinars plus a newcomers tutorial at every single IETF you know so now we have three times nine recordings for a year of basically the same material so I just think perhaps we should keep less go ahead Robert respond to Lou that no you did hear me correctly I was proposing that there be a timeout a place where recordings expired and I am find that you disagree I\u0027m not insisting this is the right thing to do but I do think that we should as a community consider it okay so again responding to both comments I think a discussion is perfectly reasonable to have I I\u0027m talking specifically about working group sessions not about edgy but things that are used in producing our documents I think it\u0027s important to keep so then you have design teams meetings that might be recorded and then you have virtual interims and then you have the full sessions and so where do we draw the line so we oblique working group sessions we have a process of that defines what is part of permanent records and what is not for example design teams are not okay but we have a definition of those things it I need to cut the cue so the two of you and then we\u0027ll be done yeah cousin women I just want to report that the moment that Robert said we should start deleting things my brain record it I have another thing to do after each ITF which is download the videos sorry but this is exactly how I work and I just want to report that okay [Music] I\u0027m gonna agree with Lou I think it\u0027s at least for the working groups of a pretty bad idea to delete the recordings and just keep minutes because minutes often have errors in them and I\u0027ve used recordings multiple times in the past to clarify what was in the minutes and correct them and update them because people in the past had differing opinions about what was said and the recording for the definitive proof of what was said okay I mean this is obviously not the group that can resolve this question but we wanted some feedback to take it to those who can with that it\u0027s actually 138 we\u0027re three minutes past time so I\u0027m going to we can we can take the open mic session to the mailing list please take your lunches with you and clear the room expeditiously so the next set of people can get in here I know try "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:17",
    "text": "not to stab "
  }
]