[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:01",
    "text": "on the group and so on. Okay. Okay. Yeah. So let's get started. That's the MPLS session. So if you are not looking for MPL We are definitely in the, wrong room. Okay. The Northwell? As usual, So some administrator. So, of course, please, log in into the on-site tool especially for collecting the blue sheets. We have also for a who's taking minutes fact, that's a good question. Any minute take up. I I will be taking minutes, involving. Thanks. Thank you. All the other stuff is as usual. So we have also a Wiki and a GitHub GitHub where you can find, additional information. We have 3 presentations today, So we have, I think, a bit of time, left if there is anything else. So there was already a question, I think, in the chat, who's a new chair. So we have, new chair Tony is our new chair, and Adrian is stepping, down and I think we have also a new AD which is Jim and, Andrew is, stepping down. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "Working group status. So we have, 3 reports oil are you tell you, There's one liaison statement for an IT UT study group 11, it was initially sent to, ops area. And it's, addressing, the model for optimized trace route And we have, got this, for consideration. And there's also response drafted, which was discussed on the MPLS mailing list and which was also sent ours, right before the meeting. I think 15 was through Friday. Yeah. Not much new here. So, we have a discussion on the, SFL control document later on. Yeah. I mean, awesome not much new here. The, Both blue documents are, on the agenda for today. It's basically the first nibble and also the M and A use cases document If a new working group document, which was, adopted right before the ATF, the the, pass it And, we have also a bunch of documents which they expired a long time ago. And we are just in the process of cleaning up sets. There's, 4 documents Left. Yep. You have nothing new. Now that's a list of the, you know, Let me just skip that. So there's one, thing about the for overdrafts. Yes. It was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "of the documents was blocked by a reference to the SFL control, draft they have us basically Sorry. Change in text and the, change was was also approved and the document is now an off the editor, queue, to unblock. Act. The SFL controller documents as, Working group last call was in 202,021, and, also went to ICF last call in November last year. There was one problem found by Stewart and there are basically 2 approaches to to solve solve this, Problem, once we reduce the scope scope, to exclude as a multi point to point. Stuff or to enter it or return it to the working group for a fix. At the moment, and there's a formal poll on the mailing list running to abandon this draft, and this think today is 19th and today. So if you have an opinion on that, Please go to the a mailing list. Hey. And that's from my side. Adrian Twenty Tarik, anything to add from your site? Can you talk to me? Nothing, I think. Nothing from my side. Okay. So then we can go to the, 1st presentation, That's my browser. Sorry. My browser has gone Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "So you have 2 presentations. Yes. Yeah. Okay. Okay. I'll Okay. be here back to back. So, This is update on, 1st, enable, first, you can realize that there is a change in terminology for many years, we were referring to this construct as MPLS First Nimble. And, discussing among offers realize that, well, That's not technically accurate. Because, this first label does not belong to MPLS label stack. It's a post stack first nimble. Next slide. So That's what have changed. Terminology, Yes. you. Of course. Thank Terminology, what will, updates, to 4928, we, extracted into, separate section restructure on, post tech and that will be, interesting to discuss later on because we were the feedback from IANA. Thank you, Diana. And, security considerations. So let's go in details. Terminology. As I mentioned. So their first label is not really a part of, MPOS label stack. So that's referring to this as MPLS First Naval, Might be misleading. It, in fact, it's a post stack first, Neville. Because it immediately follows the bottom of the stack label element. So that's we'll, change into terminology throughout the document referring to this as a post stack first nibble. Then, consecutively, following this logic, first name is part of post stack header That"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "includes, post tag first enable and immediately follows the bottom of the stack, label, stack element Also, it's important, is with discussed. To, identify what we are sharing, with this work. Not only to create a registry for the post stack for a stable but deprecate a particular behavior. So here, we provide in, the documents that terminology section, their definition of deprecation or interpretation of what deprecation means that would be used, throughout this document. So you can read it, but currently, we don't use normative language in this, document. So as you see, there are 2 consecutive questions. 1st, Do we use a normative language in this document, this definition. And if Regardless of their use of the normative language, is it should a must Of course, the difference will be only important in my opinion, if, it's a normative. So whether it's a recommendation or that is a requirement, I think that Edwin has a comment. So let's take a comment now. Yeah. Thank you. Greg, and and you're right to call this out. I think that the difference is if you're deprecating a behavior, or deprecating the setting of that nimble So for example, if you're saying When you see the value 01 in Matt Nimble. People used to do this, but they don't anymore."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "That's probably lowercase, but if you're saying implementations used to set 1 and now zero one is deprecated, then I you're saying new implementations must not. Okay. So, jumping a little bit, forward Okay. Let's probably wait till, we'll get to exactly what we propose to deprecate And then, it might be, and whether it's a recommendation or requirement, Okay. Sure. Okay. Thank you. Oh, hang on. I don't know where to point. Should you? Or No. No. I think you're I point at pointed at me, but just Yeah. Okay. At the computer. Okay. Not really at you at computer. Okay. So, updates tracked it into separate section to make it clear, and what we identify that, there are 2 updates to RFC 4928. So, currently, it's require that application depending, on a packet delivery, restricted, 20 and 1. So as we know that not been the case because there are some other use, their values of, 1st post deck first, nimble, being used by different, protocols So that's, we're saying that 1st, post tag 1st label, other than, 4 or 6 that constitutes,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "only 4 and 6 constitutes IP payload. And another, that's where we'll come to, what's being deprecated. As We learned through the history making control word in ethernet to the wire optional caused some grief and pain. So that's, what we want to deprecate is that, behavior that, allows for, use of, Non IP payload without post stack header. And that that you can see in the updated on second paragraph. So I'll read it out loud. A new document is to be published to obsolete MPOS encapsulations without post stack header for of non IP payload. So that, again, something that is a forward action that we'll take. So after this document being published, this document only deprecates such behavior but their intention and recommendation of offers is to continue this work to obsolete, Such behavior, And that's why we provide the definition of What deprecates is Here, because there is a distinction between, deprecated behavior and absolute behavior, So now we can come back to thinking about Whether it's this definition uses"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "normative language, and if normative language, would it be recommendation or Requirement. Okay. Let's take, comments as they come. Tara, please. Thanks, Greg. This is Stark. And, with it, chairs a hat off. So on the next slide, you are deprecating a a behavior of, I, you know, using that heuristic to identify the, The flow using the first nibble If it is 4 and 6, And you're saying we should, LSR should not I think it was the next slide then. Yes. This one. Right here. We we are deprecating relying the personable to identify a flow Is that yes. Or which or which So what the alternative that we're recommending? Should we not is 1. You know, state down, this is the way to identify an MPLS flow for for LSRs. You know, I I I know that you're you're intending to do that, but did you mention that in the draft? Yes. In a draft, yeah, because so this is, I I tried to keep their, amount of information here, Limited given the time so, yes, in a draft, we refer to existing, entropy sources in MPLS such as entropy label and sued the wire fat label. So and that these are recommended. Recommended or must They I guess that's, again, back to you. Okay. okay. The the okay. There must use other sources and it's either, entropy label or to the wire fed label. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:05",
    "text": "Because, as, we stress, So in early versions, we already stressed that the value of post stack 1stnibble cannot be reliably used to deduce the type of a payload. Because in MPOS, the type of the payload defined, by the context label. We do have karate in the queue. But, yes, he's mine not close to yet. I am at the mic right now. Okay. So I when when I first wrote this, it was a enough, should we make this a should or a must So two two things. One is should it be a should or a must? I feel it should be a must. Or must not use Mhmm. And you can't say must use the Yeah. Part label or entropy label, but those are the preferred ways. You must not use the nibble. Mhmm. The second thing is, There's going to be legacy equipment that does this. So we have to be very careful what we write in terms of how this you know, draft goes forward. We can't We can't absolutely mandate that you can't do this. You can say you shouldn't do this further or you must not do this further. But you have to take into account that there's legacy equipment that has it. Those are the two things that say 2 topics from it. Yes. Basically, that's if if we look at, absolutely correct. And that's why we, differentiate, between, deprecate and obsolete. So the deprecate is as it's written here in definition is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "in new implementations or deployed in deployments. So, yes, it's a more forward looking Yes. duplication. Yes. Has has Absolute. Di more replication and does require more discussion and consideration. And that's why we believe that for the sake of expediency progressing this document, So we separate these 2, stages. And steps. Yep. Okay. Carrie, if you can lower your hand it would probably be confusing. Thank you. Okay. So, That's what we have now. Now, the part of IANA registry And I appreciate, Jeffrey, pointing out that That idea was not clearly communicated why we changed it. And we received, feedback from IANA, and thank you to IANA. For, generously describing 3 options. We'll be discussing these options and, communicate with the group about which way it will go. But, At least it's clear that that that has to be changed because IANA told us that they cannot create registry like that. So what we wanted to highlight here is because earlier version, listed, a single value of post stack, nebul, and then associated with it all their protocols that use it And that might be not clear enough. So our intention was that to list applications and then associate the value that you this application uses. But in this Specific format, IANA cannot create this, registry"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "So they offer it 3 options that we'll need to discuss and we'll come to the group with our recommendation before, we'll, do the next update. And That's basically it. So, so here's the security consideration that states that we, request a new IANA registry And, there are no other, security issues. Yes, Keri. Please One thing I would suggest strongly We do have the same number. 0 and 1 use multiple ways depending on which application uses it. From a hardware point of view We could suggest that in the future, you have for all the other numbers, you can use 4 and 6. But for all the other numbers, 3 and, 5 and everything above 7. You have a single registry for that. So, yes, we have to document what the existing thing is. We have to do it in a way that and I can deal with we could say in the future, there's a single registry for MFN or whatever PFN numbers that, you don't have to have context of which application is it beer? Is it, pseudo wires? Is it a dotnet? Because I think there's enough numbers that you can do something meaningful with. So, that becomes the way that you forward. But for the existing software, I have to go with what I emphasize. Yeah. Actually, I believe that, there, intention is to encourage new applications, to use 0 and 1."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "Not to allocate new values. And because again, as we are effectively, stating that we're discouraging, deducing the type of a payload solely based on the value of, post that first label That means that, it doesn't matter if everybody uses, 01. Because they can use 0 and 1 as differentiating between their data Payload and OEM. For that application. So that seems to be sufficient. Some applications decided differently, but that's what are under the bridge. But in the forward looking, and again, given that we have very scarce space available, values here So, probably in the future when somebody asks for consideration, the more conservative we will be probably will be prudent policy. Okay. We can discuss offline. course. Yes. Of Okay. So I don't see who is next Adrian? Yes. Yeah. Greg, I think you've actually got a security consideration that you should mention which is that you're fixing a security hole. By by deprecating behaviors that may incorrectly work out what the next, what the payload is. You you are fixing, an issue. That's an interesting perspective, and thank you. I'm not sure that was a security problem was more operational problem, but Yeah. Let's think about it. From that angle. And put some might be some text. Thank you. Yes. I come from Juniper."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "I also have the comment related to that. In fact, I'm surprised I'm here talking about security considerations because normally It's always a headache for me to write about this section. But anyway, Indeed, this draft is does not only talk about, a new registry. You were talking about the the deprecating behaviors. So I think you should talk those things as well. Sorry. Basic what Adrian talk about already. Yeah. Okay. Then two 2 suggestions Move stronger than 1. Of course, of course, Thank you. K. So would No. I think I have to change. Yeah. So the next steps, welcome comments. Thank you for your comments here at the mic. And, we'll continue discussion and we'll come back with a proposed update to the on the registry. And, after that, we'll see when it will get to the working Urgoi's call ready state. Okay. So now, this is update on, use cases for MPOS network actions. And, There were their, discussion in Prague was already forward looking where this changes that, were applied to the document were indicated proposed, and we have not received any opposition. So that's an update of what have been, implemented in a document and what the doc it now includes. So in includes, 3, Network actions, no further fast to reroute in C2OEM and network slicing, and network resource partitioning."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "Other, use cases that were previously included in a document, And, have been discussed, but so far, have not received, acceptance by, the working groups that participated, in, chartering open design team on, MPLS network actions, they were, they remain for, informational and they are in Amendment. So I'll go actually Again, again, Even though this is informational document, we decided it will be, for, historical benefit to have this, use cases included, but since they are not really affecting their solution that, to be discussed and accepted hopefully by their, community. So they, would not, in the main part of the document. So that's Only three, use cases, so far been identified that require, have some requirements for, M And A solution. And that basically it. So we believe that, document is stable in its current form, reflects their Consensus Hopefully, something that, probably, working group chairs won't to verify, for the normal process. And, if working group agrees that, the current document is, ready for the working group last call. So we'll support it through the process. Thank you. Thanks. Who is next?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:18",
    "text": "Hello, everyone. I'm Emilio from ZTE. As you can see from the title, it is not actually and then PS Draft. But it is kind of related. So for giving me the chance to present it here. So it is about extending as in As in PV6, for SRV6 related information, validate And as we know, unlike normal ipv6 addresses, SRV success can be related with more and more extra information, such as Vivian, evpn services, service, endpoint behaviors, flags algorithms, service functions, and and etcetera. And for SRM peers and or MPS. The MPS the the MPS labels can also be related with some men that actually affect this information. And, the mechanism for the verification between data plan and controlling our way of defined, in the FAC validation, procedure in SVP Ping. But for SRE 6, there's no similar mechanisms. There's only paying for data plan. Connect a ping and trace for data plan connection validation. So based on the above considerations, we take examples from fec Valitation in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "and PSS LSPP. And this draft defines ICMPV 6 messages to verify the data plan against a controller for SRV 6. And, 2 new IP, SMP V Six messages. Defined for the validation request and the reply. And for the validation requests, there's one or more validation information objects carrying, the information to be very fight, just like I visit, and in the, validation reply. There's a code indicating, the validation result. And here's a a brief processing procedure. And, it is just like paying on SAV 6 it. So first, the source note sends a validation request with SRV 6 to be verified set as a last segment. And, in the picture, notice c is a tracking note. After receiving, the validation request, to verify the information coded in the, in the requests. And, it will send the validation apply with return code set based on the validation cost. And she has just at brief, procedure. And we, we presented this draft in spring, last IETF. Here's some feedbacks and comments, we we we got the first is We got some feedback saying that, in Amperes. Whenever there's new type have this information, we have if you want to do the,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "FAC validation, you have to define new FAC sub treas. And so you need to upgrade to a device. So, some people think it's not very implement implementation friendly. And so introducing similar mechanisms in s RV6 may lead to similar problems. And, And we got some response saying that Although LSPPs widely used but, not the FEC validation. Part. And the requirement for validation is not that's storming their network. We are not sure about this point. So, our our question is is valid validation between the data plan against control plan required for troubleshooting in a real network. Regardless, the data plan type, MPS or SRV 6. And we are suggest to get feedbacks and experiences experience for MPS. Since NPS ask experts have been doing this for many, many years. So Yeah. We request feedbacks and comments any feedback in comments from NPR's experts and we are still seeking requirements from the network Is your next visa validation against the data plan against a control plan, needed in your network regardless of the data, data plan type. If if it's in your MPS work, we can, analyze it if it is still valid in your, in for the for SRS 6. And welcome collaboration. Thank you. Tarick, do you have a comment?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "Yeah. Thanks. Mike, well, back to your question. I think you're asking from MPLS experience. In fact, we have, In MPLS, we have both modes. We have the you know, the control and data plane validation being done in a full, descriptive fact And then we have the nil fact cons concept where we just do, a minimal data plane kinda check, on the on the on the egress node. And in fact, we have an we have a document that we push to IST recently, defining such a generic nilfech mechanism. And we and as you can also, you know, go through the document and see the use cases where it's applicable we found that it could be useful, in cases where the initiator of the ping or the OEM request. Does not know the the full, control plane fact. So it would just, initiate the nilFA kind of verification. Thanks, Tarek. I'm aware of the new FAC draft. So that as my understanding, it is, a way where you don't want to to the FAC validation. But, as my observation, there are still many, new FSC sub TierVs. Defined. To do the validation. So, Yeah. I I wonder if there are your requirements. So in in your network, So we we can now assess it So it we can see what is is is is Is this needed for a selfie 6 as well? So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:09",
    "text": "Matthew Bochee, Nokia. So I'm a little bit unclear about what you're verifying against What? Because in LSP Ping and trace with regular MPLS. You're doing a kind of the chest the tech checking the binding ready between the the fact and the label signaled by the control plane, you know, saying is really is this label programs at a particular LSR for this fact But here it's an SR V6 CID, which is a slight IP V6 address that's just in the data plane. Or forwarding in the data plane. So you can use to test that it's been programmer, you can just use ICMPP Ping And Trakes. 8 I So I'm not sure what exact you know, what what are you what what what's you actually verifying. Let me take an example. NPS we have for VPN. So we have FAC validations for the MPS labels against the VPN information, you, you advertise via BGP. And, in sre6, we also have similar mechanisms So you you you advertise the salary 6 with, VP or EVP information via BGP. And, you may want to do the same thing. So you may want to verify this information. Is this is how we fix it really related always, you know, if you have information, some other Okay. So you're talking about on. The service context. For that. Oh, yeah. I said rather than the underlying so in an underlying SOVI network. You're not talking about node sets and adjacency sets. I'm sorry. For"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "Yeah. No, sir. And the justice is not just for connection. Check, I think. But without, besides the note and adjustments, I have some backup slides. So we define some examples. So, you you can you can relate your SRV 6 with besides end and the next, you have some endpoint behaviors. For example, for SRSFC, you define some behaviors for the s r pro proxies that and you have, prefix IDP algorithm. And, you you you you have the a VPN, a v we can prefix it. Perfectis. So kind of kind of these things. Okay. So so just putting my best chair's hat on. For the best working group. If you're primary motivation is to be able to do things like check. Connectivity verification for service based services where you've got all this other information, like an EVPN. Maybe you should present this in best as well at some point. Because we already have, a I guess it's an RFC now for doing LSP ping and trace for EVPM. For an MPLS case. So maybe Yes. I've read that. And there's also an RSC for SRV 6 services. Okay. So, sure. We can't pronounce that. So So we just if you have requirements, please contact us. So because we we are still finding who who needs this mostly. Yeah. X, So Thank you. Anything else? Alec? Adrian. Yes. I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "I wanted to take a moment. I was supposed to do that at the beginning and thank Adrian for stepping in and helping, in, in the interim after, Lowell had, you know, had to leave and, Thanks, Adrian. You know, I know you make a big dent and for, and thanks for setting the examples I also want to thank Andrew. It's been a pleasure working with you, and hopefully, we'll continue to work with you in the future. I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll give it back to you, Nick and Tony Yeah. There's a comment from Andrew. So Yeah. I just wanted to say a huge thank you to the chairs and the working group. It's being a pleasure working with all of you, And, Jim, unfortunately, the the new AD for MPLS, but behead due to a conflict, but welcome to him. And, yeah, I wish you guys all the best, and I will not be a stranger. I will be around. So thanks very much. Oh, and just a very special thanks to Adrian for his rather short tenure as MPLS chair. Thank you very much. And welcome to Tony Lee. Okay? Thanks. Also from our side, to everyone And I think That's it for today. Next session will be in about 3 to 4 months in Vancouver. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Past."
  }
]
