[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "a long uh tag which says meetings from that tag you can basically see i'm sorry for the voice um you can basically see uh all the meetings including today and you have the usual buttons that you can find on the ietf agenda as well for the atf meeting where you can click to get kodi etc uh you also have the agenda and in the agenda i prepare all the links effectively for the meeting what i just did is uh send send that to the mailing list as well which you normally do earlier in the day you should have received that by now and let me see what starts in fact"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:10",
    "text": "just an audio check no problem and i will ask you my voice because i've been caffeine like hell for for a number of days now and i have half of my voice sorry for that i'm receiving eco right on the farm okay so we are five after the hour so let's let's keep the meeting um this is an offshore itf intermeeting so all the best practices that you're very well aware of to apply to this meeting in particular the the best practices that are listed there be very aware of bcp 25 for anti-harassment i mean if your victim or if you observe a nearest month of some sort uh during an atf meeting inside or outside the room uh you may want to contact the ombuds team and the link is provided on this page and then if you're aware of any patent against niger that's being presented here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "ensure that this ipr has been announced and you can officially send it to the atf if it was not or if you don't know please contact the chairs on the ed and as usual this meeting is being recorded it's uh you can see on the bottom right there is a recording tag which is actually red so we are recording minutes are being taken and help is very very welcome for capturing the minutes uh the link is provided in the uh agenda on the data tracker i actually sent an email to the list where you can see all the links in the data tracker with the agenda so so these links exist for every meeting so you may want to use them as opposed to expecting main mail but anything works and the attendance is automatically captured by mitigate so uh it's it's a lot better that you don't share your screen and everybody looks individual so the agenda for today we have we have um [Music] so the administrative here i'm missing one item i'm sorry for this so the agenda on the data tracker is up to date and for some reason it's missing here so so we have uh the data model worker plus core five minutes then we'll be discussing continuing the discussion that carles has started about the the role of device and application and then at 1645 we'll be talking about the shepherd review uh on compound ack and i'm sorry that they failed to update that slide i thought they did but like i said the person agenda if you go to the colleen um it's up to date so we had a number of uh action items"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "the first two action items are not targeted for this meeting it's just a gentle reminder that carlos uh said he would review the npiot draft by vienna time and based on that and their own reading the chairs will assess whether the nba ut document is ready for workplace calls so we will have an nbiot session in vienna and you will see that anna has asked for a slot anyway so part of your slot and now we'll be uh discussing whether the document is ready for one coplace call so i expect we'll be asking 20 minutes for rbi utd step and then the chairs were to call for adoption for the young data model draft which we did and so the the call else less than a week i guess now around a week so i've not seen any review published to to the mailing list so please be be very aware that the young data model last call is running and any level of review is important so if you can't spend time looking at the gory details of the model but you have a number of checks that you would like to do please do this check and post something on the mailing list i understand the data model is not easy to review anyway we can't ask you to ensure completeness of the model or if you don't have everything in mind but any review is important well group status no change so we the the main thing is recently we pushed the oam to december of this year we are a little bit behind for nba iot but if we start the world go plus core in vienna we are not that far off because we're supposed to to be uh shipped to the asg by february so we are just two months off basically"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "so so what's new we have a three new publications of the giraffes also um chic over and the iot that we will discuss at the atf but and if you want to give a few words you're not in the agenda for today so if you want to say a few words about the update just for people to be motivated to yes please speak enough go ahead so as we said last last meeting uh we only change we add the last review changes we the delay tolerant part that will in a new document and so now we need the reviewers in order to go for the last call okay so charlie is volunteered for that uh now if we have any any other volunteer sorry it's very well known can you do you think you can still make it is it still in your plan to do it by vienna yeah sure it's in my my agenda so yeah i think i can make it very neat so we are on track for this one thank you very much anna and carlos then she covers six folks uh and uh compounding will be discussed at the end of this uh chat and uh the young data model as we said is in las cole so so this is where we are for this document so very good um ietf 113 so this is basically two weeks from now my understanding is uh will be in uh east uh summertime for uh north america"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "and still winter time for europe so it's not the usual lag that we have one ever less than usual the chairs will not be preserved on site and laura agreed to seat understand nothing that you're not very used to pulling the knobs i guess we can still do it from remote uh it's just that we we would like that you don't effectively uh turn on your mic and you don't turn on your video go ahead eric yeah just to say that normally the chairs is receive a link from drake wood explaining all the training that you need to do when doing a remote session it's slightly different as well as managing the queue and i would suggest that lauren also um look at this training uh simply to managing the queue because remotely i'm not sure that you will see what the people are standing in the mic so then you need to get somebody present to understand what to do it anyway right we have about maximum 20 people removed and in in the room so i don't expect a big uh issue but if alexandre pascal and lauren you can't follow this training or exercise it or read the video it would be superb okay so i think i will not receive the link directly because i am not officially a chair so please forward me the info when you get it okay yeah just to mention that i attended this training yesterday as part of the working group so i can feed you in if you want either an hour or later and there are test sessions that you can program so you can rehearse ahead of time um that do not generate an interim meeting it's just a training session purely on the mythical truth"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "but yeah that's it if you have questions it's very nice dominic we will be managing the documents etc all right so all the piece of the training which is how do you upload the documents from data tracker how do you make them available or to to the people etc etc all this we can take care of and uh if there are people in the room who present and they do next lightning slide we can we can do that as well from from here so yeah i would say i would say if everything works well the only thing you have to do the one who sits in the room is to remind people who enter the room physically to turn their mythical light client on the phone or computer so that they are registered in the blue sheet otherwise if somebody comes in and does not start the mythical session then they're not registered that's the only real thing to do if they if networking and everything goes well now in case you know both chairs lose connectivity then there is more to do but the basic stuff is remind everybody to be connected and mythical and be connected with the light version so that they don't send audio and they don't mess with the av system of the rule that's the most important thing i don't expect that both chairs will lose connection at the same time i really hope we don't because we are not located at the same place at all and you know with things happening around the world if something happens that makes it so that alex and i cannot connect i don't know if the meeting will take place okay so anyway uh blah blah so we um we have a call for presentation ongoing and i have to publish the uh early agenda by tomorrow um and basically the meeting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "the agenda is final so we'll be missing a meeting uh virtually or physically for those meeting physically it's going to be on tuesday at 2 00 pm final time which is also your cut time at this time so it's the first afternoon session it's going to be in room grant park hall 2. and and um basically the request i've received so far i've i've received a request for honor for mbiot and i you did not specify time but like i said i expect 20 minutes because we want to to discuss the the capability to for adoption and and maybe carless will present his uh review comments then we have uh one colors who asked for two slots so just on the alpha six fox uh for for profile draft yes one card she wanted to speak yeah sorry just a quick one to say that uh diego will be present diego got a grant from the ir tf so fortunately he'll be able to to attend and and he's going to present most of the she covers sick fox so maybe you can add his name to to the gender if possible okay okay no problem uh anyway you will be sending slides right uh remember that we always uh provide i think it's already there but we we always provide in advance a template for the for the slides um i can check if i i posted it i think i did it but i'm not 100 sure so please take that template as the source for building your slides and then careless asked for five minutes so so far we have pretty much 35 minutes of presentation 10 minutes of intro so we we have we have time for the company uh on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "carlos and i think uh you're gonna get uh five to ten minutes on company depend on on how much time we spend on the on the young data model and laura you did not ask for a slot to know oh i missed it yes i send her oh okay so i missed it oh yeah i know why because it was a you you were the first to repeat yes it was too early very very early now it's just that it's not attached to the thread so so for some reason my marriage is not attached to this right but i remember seeing it okay okay so it was a good remember so how much time did you ask 10 minutes okay i asked 15 but then i think 15 you would you would get them so no no keep better fight with that now you know what so so you manage with that now we give you roughly 30 minutes for both of you they don't want to be there for the fight okay okay that's pretty much it so since i did not receive slides i will jump back to the to the agenda um and uh so the first thing is five minutes for the data model worker plasco so maybe your answer for today and not for the itf no maybe probably yes because that's why we're mixing but you answered to us for the slots that you have just right now and i also asked for next ietf and i think you did not reply okay sorry but i have nothing to to say today so well you have five minutes to not say it so yeah please uh please guys uh have a look at the document we we need some comments uh on this and uh i elected myself as the the shepherd"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "uh and transferred the shepherding of the compodek to alex on the data tracker so so i will be your uh your shepherd lauren so you better it's a pleasure be a good a good good guy okay so that's that's it for the one good let's go so what about this dave and aft discussion uh that was very heated last week and i'd like to to continue so everybody remembers the context or do we want to to real just remain the context can i say you want to remind the context just a little bit just to make sure that people have uh the private mind let's hello yes so the the idea is that um in in lp1 we have the rows of dev an app that corresponds to the constrained device whereas app corresponds to the network side say application server and it is clear which is the role of each entity when performing the compression or decompression however in in other environments maybe it might not be so clear so if we try to use chic to compress and decompress headers in peer-to-peer mesh networks in for example in 15.4 then perhaps we may have two constrained devices who may want to communicate as the source and destination however both are constrained so both might seem to be dead as per the definition in in the lp1 documents so then the the question is uh which is is the role that each of the endpoints should assume okay because in fact the the rules for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "compression and decompression are expressed in terms of dev and up so here we have a sort of mismatch and well uh based on the feedback that has been received so far um it seems like there is a preference for trying to keep the app and dev roles as they have been defined trying to reuse to the extent possible the existing chic functionality and that there could be like alternatives like defining new roles or something like that but perhaps that deviates from chic as it is too much and well then i didn't receive more feedback one point is that perhaps the the notes that would communicate in this sort of peer-to-peer mesh network uh might need to know which is their role whether they are developer app perhaps for each possible endpoint uh that's one one possible approach and then there's another topic that well i haven't fully like developed yet but perhaps in some cases we might have problems as well with intermediate nodes who are forwarding or routing packets in the middle say in the middle of the path between a source and a destination which might be like several hops apart um in in route over i understand that intermediate nodes would need also to be able to decompress packet headers and then there could be a problem because yeah maybe these intermediate nodes might need to know as well which are the the rules that are being used by say any pair of endpoints and even the the roles as well uh within"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "those rules so yeah this is like some additional topic that wasn't brought up before but yeah i think that's like the current state of things so yeah i don't know if there is like comments or feedback dominique your first connection thank you yes okay thank you um yeah i may have missed out of the conversation that was [Music] i'm sorry can you hear me okay um i may have missed part of the conversation that was going on in the mailing list i was wondering why we don't just introduce a new source and destination [Music] iig and prefix cda inject to cover for that so that nodes don't have to know if they are up for them or whatever but was a rational for not doing that it seems it produced it forward to me yeah so actually that was like uh our initial idea and in in the draft which is a sixth low well it's intended for civil law uh which aims to use chic for 15.4 for heavy compression that was sort of like the the initial attempt that we had in zero one um however then the feedback that was received from the lp1 working group in this interim also on the list seemed like to to prefer sticking to to dev and up and not defining source and destination um so yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "initially as the first attempt perhaps the the straightforward solution to to define something like source and destination then it's true also that using devon up in principle at least in the lp1 scenario has the advantage of allowing a rule to be used in both directions whereas with source and destination we might need to duplicate the rules however yeah i don't know if maybe there are like other effects to be considered if we still try to stick to devon up in the mesh peer-to-peer scenario it seems we could still use the same rules if we um overload the meaning of up and down to mean source to destination and destination to source so we we can have something more something more generic say north and south or anything like this but i don't think it changed a lot okay so there is a uh sender and there is a receiver right and usually the the sender is the device it's our head and the wrist it doesn't have to be but it's usually because you have the sender let's say it's the device but when it receive you can receive an acknowledgement from the network yeah so the sender becomes a receiver yeah but the acknowledgement is an upper layer packet which will be compressed as well so so the sender i mean basically the the way i would say it if you're peer-to-peer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "uh it could be that for every packet whether it's an upper layer acknowledgement or whatever else there is one node which is transmitted that packet to the other and that node could implicitly become the the the device just device would be implicitly centered and then it would basically the rules that that we use in p2p will will not be the same exact same rules as in lp1 so they will be highly symmetrical because the traffic may go either direction and so you if you could for for the one packet be the sender of the packet and for the next packet be the receiver and so one way of solving this prime is to dynamically say if i'm sending the packet then i'm the the device whatever the packet is i'm just suggesting that it doesn't work but but we need to expect rules which which will work on both directions that's for sure yeah and and you can in fact now the rules are working in both direction because the direction indicator is b if you put it up or down then you you split the rule in in two and you keep devon up so what what i wanted to to say in the queue that i didn't look for other implementation but in openshift we what we we have we have the rule and then we have a device id that is allocated to associated to the rule and the rule of course are the same in in the dev and on the app so what definition we we can give that in the app the device id is not the whereas the owner or the where the instance of chic but it's the other end"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "and for the dev the device id is the dev id so here we break the the symmetry by by this information and to get the device id something very important because uh there is a core part of chic this way knows where to send the information so it can be wi or it can be in what we are doing right now in in open cheek with ivan is that we use a udp tunnel and udp tunnel is something that could be quite close to something that is mesh then there is there is another question i mean um when we talk about mesh networks so on the first hub of course the sender is so if we if we have route over then the second hub doesn't have any more the the mac the death ui information from the sender from the initial sender right so basically either we have shape that is on the link and directly on the link in which case the death you are like death and up makes sense but if we're somewhere in the middle then uh you know it's it's uh it's not clear how to interpret the defu the dev address two ways of looking at this the first one look at it from the perspective of each hub and say that if you compress the ipad on my heart and decompress it but keep the amplitude per layer compressed then you can forward the packet the multiplayer up and just decompress"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "the ip that's one way of saying it you don't compress the ap or you just compress uh and decompress the lp but you leave the rest compressed so it's one possibility if you think about meshandr for instance you would not have a prime because in mechanda you expect that the mac layer is not compressed at all right yes so so same thing you can say if you're doing in round over you can say either i don't compress ip or i compress ip uh but separately from from the upper layer so the operator packet can can stay compressed without the compression at the rear if if you do it on buyer based on ip then this prime goes away because each time the sender becomes uh it's not really true you need to think about it and say i don't know [Music] but so basically that was what i was thinking separate the the compression of the ip from the rest and and do the rule for compressing the ip at every hub but that's that's that's a bit uh complex and you would need to know the source ip in the middle that's that's for sure uh the other approach is to look at what we do with rfc 893031 which is too effectively for the fragments so what you do in that case is you you basically um establish a path then again could be a tunnel or level switch path between the source and destination and then you forward the chic encrypted packet along that path so you just know the path with the label or something of some form so none of them is really really attractive but yes yes so so so perfectly agree but then the question is is is there still [Music] is this still a question about like if we're on one link on one hub we can pretty clearly say well the dev"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "is the sender and app is the receiver they're on one hop right and we can use both like we can use the mac layer to to to actually do the you know do the calculation and with the computation but if they're not on hop then you cannot use that notion right yes but just the the prime what do you want to do is to compress ipv6 or to compress for example udp co-op exactly if you if you compress only the payload right then you don't have a problem if we yes if we just uh if we say that six law is good for ipv6 then and we cheek is more for upper layers so here we have a devon app i think if we say it it should compress also ipv6 then here it's more complex well the best idea is so here the question is about the the cda actually right the death defi id and app id right but do we have i don't i don't remember oh yeah def ports we have it in dev port and up port in udp but in co-op do we have it the dev uh function like dev and app do we use so that i mean it's asymmetric so the request and the response are different so you don't have the same problem but in udp yes we we have devon up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "okay so the the only question is then uh i mean getting back to carl's original question so it seems to me that either you have a mapping like a clear cut mapping like well that's one link in which case you can actually reuse the the mac addresses to uh you know to generate compress ip addresses so in which case you need we need to to specify how to interpret the depth and the app uh in that sense uh but if you are up if there is one more than one hop then you know it you cannot really use these values so the question doesn't it's it's more complicated than that yeah do you see what carlos do you see what i mean do you agree with this yeah yeah i agree uh because to some extent an intermediate note in in row october if if we assume we compress also ip the ip addresses then would need maybe to know say all the rules in use all the roles in use who is that an app for each pair of endpoints so yeah that was like increasing complexity yes i don't i i i've been thinking about it since you mentioned it guys but i really don't like the idea of trying to do multi-hop and sheik has always been defined for a direct connectivity between two devices and you compress between those two and and relaying that uh i guess you know the might be thinking it doesn't make much sense so if you really want to do a multi-year network then stick to six lapa 4 for ip as lauren said and don't try i mean that is just taking us too far"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "no yeah i just remember your your slide from last time and you make a triangle between the three applications in this scenario you consider that you were multi-upper it was direct communications well in that case i wasn't so it could be any i was thinking about the problem of intermediate nodes but actually there was a hidden problem which is uh yeah maybe there was like just one hop or maybe there could be nodes in between so this could be like an end-to-end multi-hop communication um so yeah if it's just one hop uh between say neighboring devices then it's easier otherwise if it's multi-hop then the the problems that we are discussing now arise so yeah at the moment i was not like aware of or say the the actual issue that would come also with multi-hop and intermediate nodes and you you don't want to use iphc for communication are you you want cheek everywhere well uh not necessarily so first the idea would be to to understand whether it it's actually useful or it has advantages to use chic also instead of six low six open header compression for say the ipv6 addresses and well if if the conclusion is that it's better not to do it like it has more disadvantages then uh maybe that's fine and and then well we can see whether there's still value in maybe using chic for uh upper layer compression on top"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "so maybe one one way to look at it is you know if if we're in a route over is to say well you know you need to have some kind of so the first thing is that you cannot use the mac addresses to compress the ipv6 addresses because you know there are multiple hubs so uh unless probably you have like one border router and that everybody knows but you know that's a very touchy topic and the other point would be to have the rule id is like you have uh you don't use the mac addresses but you have a list of of ip addresses and you have several rules that actually take this into account so each and the notes of the notes knows all the rule ids and all the uh that are used in the network and all ip addresses and uh you know you can then use only the rule ids to do the the forwarding yes so that's pretty much what we have alex in in six le pen but then that's not just the beginning because after that when you have fragments in root over you need to forward the fragments i mean there are all sorts of hassle um basically as long as you keep it mesh under or one hub then it makes sense to chic compress uh ip but if you are multi-hop then my recommendation would be don't don't compress ip or do a tunnel and to compress ip inside that tunnel or labor or anything but basically don't try to to do something like that because that there's a hell of a list of complications which we have solved in six slope and after how many rfcs um including and 90 uh it's 9 30 31 for the front ones um i mean don't take that path because in sixth open you can also always say hey you you can put it in the clear the ip"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "address and here if you start saying i want to have all the ip addresses in all the rules and each time you have a new iep you have to establish your rules and distribute them and that doesn't fly so i don't think we should spend too much time on multi-hop for now at least for now say for now we can say for multi-up you don't compress ip you compress the elps but and then later people can do more if they like but for now that the the prime is really the original problem they've been up and do how do we know who is deaf with app uh and what is the difference between the roles i mean can could we could we have dev to dev communication with sheik today what prevents it what's what's in the what's exactly in the role could we write rules which would work for deaf to death that's that's another way of saying my question no you said the role there are some differences so effectively which are those differences can we alleviate that yes i actually i try to make a more precise description of of that about how you do the root selection and you know where you you have to to send it my other concern is that it's nowhere except in open cheek code so maybe something also that should go to the architecture draft to explain this oh yes yes i'm sure we need to attack that nature but we resolve exactly what we want to write in the architecture so probably in the architecture we're already missing uh a description of development because if we are having all this discussion it means that we need to define uh how devanap differs and then we can say uh what you're doing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "when really both could play both the first thing is to analyze how they differ and why you effectively need to have this role or is there a way to write the rules so you don't have to have a role because the difference is not huge right okay so so yes let's discuss exactly on the mailing list what dave is and what app is and how did sure i think we should yes there are options for udp that's for sure so sorry yes there is the question at least for udp ports because udp you know it's uh i mean you can route your packets and then you still have the udp port sender and receiver that are today called the uh that are based on death and up the notion of death and up and sergio we have 15 minutes and and we wanted to also talk about the um the shepherd review i don't know if you want to jump to that or you want to stay more on devon up i'm hearing the one so um so i have i have my my review on um my shepherd review so i don't know how to proceed but basically um i could copy it on the chat"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "so that everybody sees it do you want to go to the chat let's see if i can complete in one big park oops doesn't present too well so first item is uh whether this document updates uh rfc it's okay sorry what are you saying eric maybe it's easier if you share the screen showing it uh okay but it's just an email so okay i can zoom in i guess okay let me try to share so all slots are okay i need to stop okay so you should be seeing my review now test work do you see an email with my review yes we see no okay the first item was uh i i believe you you will need to indicate updates 8724 in in the drc tag eric do you agree it's always uh a difficult thing about updates but uh i think this thing updates right it takes day outs they know miriam's document etc all right but we still have only one tag"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "so do you think yeah you need to do it and you need to say update as well into the abstract then yes true enough yes and ideally you you need a section which says what is updated it's a very small section but you say updating rfc 8724 we are adding a new uh method for you know acknowledging so this is extending blah blah blah and if you want uh offline i can show you the the the myriads document uh eric is is it any official this this because it's still a draft could leave it currently i can pronounce but it's still a draft miriam basically um it's still a draft so we have run till now we have a single update tag the one you put there into the rlc tag uh but you still need to do it into the the abstract and later into the introduction so that the media's draft has gone nowhere don't forget about it uh because uh uh michael and roll insisted to do a challenge which he did because i did not want to do it for me but uh changing every time we say we extend or something it was more specific using effectively uh uh reference to myania's document to to explain the meaning of the words so he says it's important maybe for the he he was taking this implementer position where he wants to know if he needs to change his code or write new code you know and so that's that's where it becomes useful uh but if it's a bad idea we just did the wrong thing so we need to know it's very confusing in it um second command to make sure we we are in sync so so the conclusion is to to stay to the update as as written there and add the text on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "the abstract correct yes and if you can have a very small section which says we are extending uh so basically this section would be updating rfc8724 and just one sentence which says we are extending the rfc for adding to add this new feature because when you you have to say how you you update somewhere so switch it really so it means that it mandates this behavior in in chic for that that's what we are going to explain so if we have 80 87 24 bits then it will be integrated to that document yes actually yes or is it and it could be profiled in profile outright um abstract introduction you you you you may want to mention that this feature applies only to account yeah it's not it's not reset then i was a bit confused with this sentence here yeah regarding that sentence uh we will be changing it and saying that if if window number zero is present it should be in the she compound header in that case i think it's it's clearer than that that what we meant is that it should be on the header by saying that it should be between the rule id and the save it so yeah we will change that sentence in that sense pascal that the rule or the way it should work is that the lowest number window should be in the header and then further windows are on the payload so by definition if window number zero is present it should be in the in the in the header so so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "i guess it's kind of redundant to the to the requirement of the of this order of the windows but uh we understand that that it was a little confusing so we will clear the text so that it's better explained and then uh when you did the diff you had this this sentence here and uh you copied it it was on the original and it wasn't uh it wasn't old and it was a new and i missed if there is one bit uh because it's like six lines and they tried to compare weight by word to see which word you compa you changed but they could not find any it was like is there any change in that sentence and if there is none then don't put it because it's i'll just put the first word just to show that this is not changed but i was not clear why you had this sentence in the div okay we'll we'll double check that yes um at some point you you talk about so we are on the last item here so this one and sorry that was some weeks ago that i made that review but so so that is yeah you you you put it in all new like it's new text uh replacement of the old but it's it's it's not a replacement it's it's kind of a fully new behavior it's uh i guess it's a matter of interpretation that it's true and and we were discussing about it it's true that the in the in 87 24 the the receiver is not uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "they basically can can can lose uh a chicago and may uh respond or not but we never talked about the sender not sending the the chicago when it was needed and at least in my mind that was part of the behavior but it was never written so this doesn't break or change the protocol but but you're right that the behavior is was not fully explained that depending on network conditions for instance you may not you may decide not to send a knack at a certain point for a certain window and just wait until a better condition arrived to to send the the act so it makes sense but procedurally speaking there is a difference between do that and and have it force it force a retrofit on the old uh implementations or just say it's it applies to people implementing this new rfc right in if it's just something new which comes with this but you don't expect it in all implementations um then it's it's really extends now if you add this to the old implementations as well because you expected it there but it's not really specified but it should have been then you effectively also update but but probably because you modify all implementation not just the ones which support this extension so right it's optional so it's it's not mandated so uh as we say yeah but it's even if it's not it's may right but but uh before if it was not specified maybe it didn't even mate right it didn't do it at all so maybe it's a bug right maybe we should have made it in the original spec and that's exactly why i'm saying if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "if you want it retrofitted even if you want this made to apply to 8724 without compound so it may return a knack for the missing fragment without compound right if you expect that uh then you need to specify it to have some words on on the updates section that i discussed and then basically you also allow an old implementation to send a knack for asynchronously like all right so we'll add some some words to describe that because i i would have to review with with laura maybe and dominic whether it's okay right but if it's okay and if it's really what we expected then yes be very specific i don't want to hide that like it looks like the new stuff that was not in there or if you say if you want to do it all new you could say old it was not really specified uh who probably should have been and knew we specified it i mean i would i would take that as an okay answer as well but basically it's unclear in the current form what all these okay now i knew it's very clear new text is what they have here but what all text is apparently all text is implicit we need an error that was muslim i had to i would have to look at you could do an error first and then i got here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "okay i'm saying you could do an errata on the first draft if you think text was missing that should have been there and then do the old versus you based on that errata is that correct eric can we do that is that the best way so it took a while to unmute myself again erratas are really reserved for error right not for if it's underspecified it looks like the case i don't think it's a real error so so we are i mean i don't mind the the point is this is this is new for which there is no old so let's not do this errata i understand it's not the right way but let's let's in this whole new thing us have a node where instead of having text we say this was really underspecified but the expectation is that the rc8724 would load a may there basically and for an app which is not compound and then you say new text and and really you're updating the spec in something that people should do even if they don't do compound so please write it in in this new section which says what you update you say we are clarifying that um there could be a a knack uh for the missing fragment even if it's not compiled okay you see what i mean we are clarifying that it can be done which was missing in the original text but that's the problem okay and then we are we are if you publish that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "now it's too late because we have passed but if you want if you publish that i'm i'm copying it with my review one time okay okay so alex i guess you you can go ahead with your shepherding and uh basically we'll we'll push the button at the atf because we on monday the the window will reopen so uh what colors if you can publish on monday and then we'll push the button and we will announce that we push the button at the meeting yes it will be the 21 or sometimes okay so if you press the button then on tuesday we will say uh well if you publish on tuesday we will have press the button so we will have made the publication request we can announce the publication request was issued okay if you want to propose me text on the mailing list or what before you publish it i'm very happy to review it as well okay thank you okay and now with this we have to adjourn uh so not much time for ub but uh thank you very much all for uh for attending and for this discussion so laura if you don't mind uh post something to the list about how different the role of app and dev are yes you could have dave to death what that would mean or up to up i don't mind yes i think it's i have to check it but it's uh something that will derive of what we do with open cheek right now and we have to in just to add a new new id in it and i think it will work but i have to test it okay excellent so thank you all so much"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "and with this uh the meeting is adjourned you all take care thank you bye thank you"
  }
]
