[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:37",
    "text": "yeah I knew Danang closest actress karbolyn even sons mesial Zacchaeus I think we\u0027re ready to roll the first one so my watch says ten to four so I think we should start this is the aisle to working group if you\u0027re here for also that\u0027s great if you\u0027re not you\u0027re in the wrong room but you are welcome to stay and my coche BJ will go Bonnie could unfortunately make it to this meeting he\u0027s online I see him right there so he\u0027s on meet echo um so um he will be able to speak up with her something on me to echo and he\u0027s definitely listening and my name is and zero if I\u0027m co-chairing this working group and I\u0027m as you can see physically here today to chair this session and before we get started we need some well let\u0027s go through the logistics and I see me take us on so people can listen "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:37",
    "text": "online we have the blue cheese going around so please fill them out or I mean fill your name and if you\u0027re here and the other thing is we have to know Tyga\u0027s Sabine and Richard F candy you greet can somebody do a java scrap anybody I see Lyle in the last row because he wants to hide from trouble scribing ah not on that laptop yeah that\u0027s the same here any anybody do we do we definitely need a Java scrap I mean we do have me to echo on fine you know we do we do do we need one okay so maybe we is anybody on me Tyco here in the room would we see if somebody speaks up and me take oh okay can somebody do that log in to me to echo please so we can get started that the purpose of this is if somebody speaks up on me to echo we want to be able to see that and then somebody could go to the mic insane right so I think we should we should have somebody can can this I mean we have already - no checkers which I\u0027m very grateful for but so with that we can get started can somebody log in to meet echo and speak up if somebody says something there on the chat room anybody nobody you can do it period thank you that\u0027s that would be great um okay with that I think we have the logistics ready um I\u0027m presenting here from a Macbook that the secretary gave to the Secretariat gave to me so I\u0027m very thankful for that let\u0027s hope I can handle it um which apparently I cannot because this is an old version how to make it full-size tools why not win Oh good thank you Brian so either working group let\u0027s get started and I know most of you know this but just for the record this is the note well of the ITF this basically means that we have certain rules here at the ITF so please I hope you all aware of this if you\u0027re not please check the corresponding rfcs as you as you see here most importantly if there\u0027s any IPR issue you\u0027re aware of you should mention it here and all the other stuff so please check this out if you\u0027re not I assume that everybody is aware of this policy so what\u0027s the status of the how-to working group well the status is very simple and with the chairs who is here and we all agree on one thing we want to first focus on finishing the Charter items and that\u0027s our core focus right now and the agenda "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:39",
    "text": "has been set up accordingly we have about half a presentation on core charter items and another half your presentations the letter M the second half of the presentations on other interesting work which we are happy to discuss here but again we want to really focus on finishing the Charter atoms first and so I\u0027m actually thank you live for the blue cheese blue sheets anyone okay maybe we okay there\u0027s one more there and one more here okay so we we give it a second try and so the goal is definitely do to finish the milestones first and I actually had some discussion also today with Richard on the mailing list I think where you proposed some extensions and Richard maybe I can say this right here we are not against extending more the current work but only if it\u0027s really needed right and I think you responded accordingly maybe on some occasions we can say okay let\u0027s stop the extensions extensions of our drafts right now and finish them first so here\u0027s the agenda and like I said we have about half of presentations regarding working with items and finishing the milestones the focus from my perspective as chair and I\u0027ve discussed them with Vijay is and that I will be asking on each of these presentations how close are we to working with last call because we as chairs think they are very very close and I think there are some dependencies in certain issues but I think this that should be the focus of our discussion and I should also say that we have a very very tight agenda so if we I would ask and I\u0027ve said this on the mailing this also and I would ask our presenters please to stick to their time slot which is very very short as you can see in most cases here but most importantly if we have any discussions with respect to finishing working with items I would finish those discussions at the expense of the other documents at the end of the chair of this agenda so I hope we can give everybody a chance to present their work but if we get in trouble our focus is clearly working group items and milestones um yeah any comments to the agenda any okay I see none so working with progress and since the last meeting last meeting was IGF track we did have a virtual interim in December last year and we have one more RFC published Sabinas year any other co-authors of this RFC who are here right now anyway congratulations and you are see from the alto working group eight one eight nine and yeah what\u0027s the status of our working group items like I said we had an extensive phone call with Mara and Vijay and I think a couple of weeks ago so and one of the documents I have a slide on this later on that we think is ready for working plus called as cross room and server discovery and fortunately neither margin or and Sebastian could make it and that we had some discussions with them a new version is ready and we all think it\u0027s ready for working last call I talked about this a bit later cost calendar and we had a working group last call there were no objections so Vijay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:39",
    "text": "actually sent this on the mailing list I think two or two or three days ago we will move this ahead and because it has been around a long time and working blast call has raced no more further objections so and we will move this ahead performance metrics is a document that is a working with item but we have some extensions extensive discussions in the past regarding certain things I put here a very short note on this we had some about semantics feedback loops privacy so what Mary I actually suggested and which I thought this was a very good suggestion we requested a review from the transport area expert team and I have informed the authors of this document that we will right now for the feedback and I think this is a good thing we get a kind of a third party view outside of the other working group what is reasonable or not because you know sometimes we are too much into our own world and we think everything anything is great we do but let\u0027s get some feedback on this one and I think this is a good document that we can use this expert area when this transport our expert team the thing is I don\u0027t know major you made me know better I think I requested that to get a feedback by end of March or something and so we wait on this we will we don\u0027t have a response yet so anyway would we don\u0027t have anything right now we would have to see and the one thing that is my stone but not really close to work with us call is Syria and I and footprint incapabilities interface with Algeria at document which I\u0027m actually co-authoring we have a presentation from Shan remotely today and so we\u0027ll see there and we\u0027re moving in this ahead and we\u0027re making good progress but I don\u0027t person I don\u0027t think is close to working class call but maybe Sean can present something on this ssee and Richard you\u0027re presenting today and so let\u0027s see I will not say much further but the question of course is how close are we to working last call I think we\u0027re very close and unified property is an path vector they are this serial together because I have a dependency so we want to move they had is a banner that\u0027s basically what Vijay and I decided together we have new versions of the new zero or three versions on both of these documents we had some interesting discussion in the mailing list if we want to include Sabine\u0027s work on cellular addresses and the inclusion the conclusion has been and I confirmed this on the marrying if you haven\u0027t seen this that we\u0027ve got to move ahead unified properties and path factor for now and exclude cell your addresses for now just to make progress and as chair I really support this decision like I said we want to finish some milestones we can always then add cellular addresses as an extension later on and Sabine is going to present on as Sara at resistor day and Don is presenting this one and so here again I think we\u0027re very close to working with us cause I will focus the discussion on how close are we to working less calling these documents this is basically a slide because margin and Sebastian cannot present you today on cross domain server discovery I\u0027ve mentioned everything here in this slide already we have version from our perspective as chairs I\u0027m speaking for the chairs now and from the authors all comments have been addressed and we as chairs think this is ready for working dusk also we were started working last call in this document soon after the IETF meeting any "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:42",
    "text": "other business any more business we have lots of business no I see no objections any I asked about the agenda and nobody bashed it and so I think we\u0027re good to go first presentation is from Brian who is chairing the penology and yeah without any further ado what is the panna G what\u0027s the relation to I\u0027ll do Brian I think you will talk about this so Irish shut up and let\u0027s see if I can find your slides overlap with Anarchy down here yep okay again you for screen awesome all right all right so um hi I\u0027m Brian I\u0027m on the co-chair of the path or networking proposed research group we would have a meeting on Wednesday I believe is it Tuesday Tuesday Wednesday it\u0027s Tuesday chair you should figure out where it is that\u0027s well I know where I\u0027m supposed to go I think it\u0027s on Tuesday because Tuesday is carrying everything day okay um so real quick what is path aware networking why we have a research group why do we care about this um so an internet working architecture is path aware if it explicitly exposed information about the pounds to the end points that are sending the traffic but our weekly connections and it allows any points to have control over pounds over which their traffic will be sent you can\u0027t really say that the Carn internet architecture is path aware which is why we have a research group on this it\u0027s not you know something that exists yet we\u0027re trying to see if it makes sense to bring into existence but there are a lot of IETF technologies that you could be used they could be used to sort of take what we have right now and add path awareness to it that\u0027s why I think this might be interesting for Altima next slide please why would we want to do this other than it\u0027s fun and research is interesting so there\u0027s been a lot of stuff done in the transport area on multipath transports that really only applies in cases where you have multiple connectivity to the Internet through diverse interfaces if you had the ability to control the pounds which traffic would take you could do that even if you were saying we connected so you could actually run all the path friends ports in more diverse areas we\u0027d like it to look at alternate actors for routing on these sorts of things for deciding how traffic goes from one place to another and the trustworthiness then of that information right like so when you have BGP the only questions of trust or between the appears in the BGP session expanding that back out gives you other ways to route traffic we\u0027d like to experiment as well with cooperative signaling as a question of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:42",
    "text": "sort of path properties in past elections so um how do you tell you know what you want to the network and how do you get information about what the network can provide and this is where the overlap with Aalto comes we have a few questions that we\u0027re looking at next slide almost all of the ones that are Aalto that are interesting to Aalto are on this first bit so how do we define and represent the properties of paths right so a lot of sort of the information that is available from Aalto is about the properties of something that you can connect over we could we don\u0027t see these as sort of cost maps we see these more as properties of singular paths for the network how do you get endpoints access to trustworthy information about the pad properties so Aalto has done this in certain cases for servers getting information about the cost map out to the server and then how do you have control over path select that this gets a little bit more into things that are sort of outside so the altar area I think also has done a lot of work that can help us answer these top two questions so there\u0027s an interface questions that\u0027s actually in taps which is that\u0027s the thing on Wednesday so if you\u0027re interested in this larger question I would say also come to the taps working group sorry just for the record I just looked it up the pen RG is on Tuesday afternoon 1331 of one of my many guesses was correct okay goals yeah do the afternoon right after lunch correct so next slide um this is where we get into the science fiction so here these are questions of once you have sort of the primitives for getting information about pass to the end points and having you points Express the paths that should be used for certain traffic how does that you know how does that interact with the whole architecture so you know how would we have to read his own transport layer protocols to work most effectively like so right now the transport layer protocols don\u0027t really take into account anything about the path that they don\u0027t measure themselves and the measurement is very basic it\u0027s RTT loss how does this differ when you talk about applying it to tunnel and overlay endpoints and this is very interesting when you get into questions of how you would actually build a network like this like the way that we build anything new is we build within tunnels first and then we hope that we\u0027re going to replace the tunnels was something else and then never do and then there are questions about operation and deployment that we are also looking to address yeah there is a new echo here yes indeed Jacob Bonnie right DJ are there any real world measurements of how devices are used not some academic of white paper studies there like some larger larger scale measurements would be people who already had larger scale deployment so that\u0027s an ask Apple question I think but yeah they\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:42",
    "text": "famously talkative when it comes to real real data so you know I think it\u0027s all it\u0027s all been largely sort of three or four groups that have done a lot of work on multi Kostov so far they\u0027d have done a measurement there but thanks failure for relaying the question things really meant so yeah this is basically kind of an ad I figured this would be useful to some of the people in this room or interesting to some of the people in this room especially with respect to the top two questions on the previous slide I think there\u0027s been a lot of work in Aalto that could sort of inform that so please come by on Tuesday afternoon 1:30 in Buckingham the new in Buckingham not the Paris right don\u0027t go to the palace the Queen will be upset with you okay yeah so a good question do you assume somehow already in the past already fixed the network or your sim actually passed now to fix that yet so therefore you detailed properties therefore you can compute a pass so we\u0027re suppressor one might have interpreted it so it\u0027s actually it\u0027s another controller right so we don\u0027t assume the fix this at the pass right like so and that that\u0027s actually a really good question in terms of because anytime you start building a an architecture like this or protocols that operate like this you now have the endpoints trying to figure out what they\u0027re going to route their traffic and you then have the network that\u0027s doing its own traffic and trying to drop is competing controller problem yes um if something like this is to work then there has to be a way to get those control loops to interoperate oh yeah right yes we\u0027re just so it needs to converge so that\u0027s that is we know that\u0027s an engineering problem that we\u0027ll have to address but yeah as of right now there\u0027s this the assumption is not but the pass will always remain static because we know it won\u0027t happen but it\u0027s also not that you\u0027re going to put a couple of magic bits on your packet and it\u0027s going to cause a new bgp advertised it to happen somewhere just because that\u0027s not realistic most of Campinas disk use there\u0027s a network slice group as well yes are you going to talk about those who cross happens with them how close are possibly I don\u0027t know what the network slicing people are actually doing yet because network slicing is a fairly large yeah sort of thing and I think they\u0027ve they have a smaller focus but yeah actually I should at least be is that off the list yes say again up you name please sorry your name again for the note-takers prophet and second name yes okay so I mean otherwise check your fly um thank you Brian because we have a yes I mean I didn\u0027t see the red ship is very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:42",
    "text": "clear so yeah I think folks should check out the meeting tomorrow and okay let\u0027s continue with the first alto document a unified properties dawn and let\u0027s see if I can find the slides properties yes please glad sharing ideas from the penalty so next we\u0027ll continue from the episode problem apt so the main updates from day 100 interim meeting Tuesdays 101 meeting include the following and my chance maybe they so we type gender document title from the extensible unified property map to the unified properties and most changes are made made following that we remove the section and you know may and it\u0027s related on my registry and totally from the document more details and discussions were being not were beings in next slides then we add and clarified and handling from the across the whole document and this will include well maybe what the server will return to a client if the client has domain has agitated not supported a PI server and what we as a server returned to the client if the client had input that I know that are in the wrong format of domain-specific and say addresses and first we have clarified is a relationship between the auto domain registry and co2 address tab registry and which is defined in the base protocol and this this question actually this problem is raised and continually discussed in the manganese I see I believe most of you may be familiar with this one and the last is that we and also updated section 7 C examples including the followings that is we highlight a little bit ahead benefit of using unified properties over using the standard and point property service and to to present to the purpose of the endpoints and this section is defined in 7.2 I suppose yeah another change is that we may need to add example of cpr determine and removes examples using the any domain example a well being the last "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:42",
    "text": "as a next diversion I suppose so next slide so since we have already remove a any domain from this document where do we need to place it it is not a specific problem but a more general I suppose so because it\u0027s not always in domain we have called a few new emergent domains like sit on CDN of CI footprints defining CDN I and the in situ a CGI domain I suppose of defining the celluloid a trisys so um two choices do we need to put all this new emerging domains in this document this new emerging domains where he puts separately in their own documents actually we prefer to put them in the in their own documents for the following reasons that we need to make this document a minimal framework and the reasons that we need to approach define such as a PID domain are people thought oh man and ipv6 domain in this document is that they are actually quietly and elegantly defined however others might not let us do in development so they might change and not so stable yes so as chair intervene I like this approach or for the obvious reasons I mean I just said we want to move my son\u0027s head as soon as possible so from the profits perspective I agree another point is that actually I I think if you put all the emergent new emerging domains in this document it just seems like most supporting examples to secure shows that have - ease and this design is right I mean we have this and many working groups these discussions dependencies and and things and there\u0027s always trade-offs but I think in this case you raise some good arguments but also from the chair perspective that we want to move progress make progress I think it\u0027s a better choice here to use this one a hat and the the documents will then the other proposals were later on you know at their stuff in their drafts so another discussion problem is that and what\u0027s the relationship between the auto domain registry ends Oh to address tab registry as we see that as a concept of Z domain more general Z and Z address types for example and address tabs can be up to be for ipv6 but we can have an ipv4 domain and ipv6 domain so we includes them besides we have a domain D CGI domain PID domain so it is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:44",
    "text": "a more generic idea and Zanjeer or to address tap registry but since you have some relationships so forth and so we needed to study and what attributes are to be defined in the Auto domain registry and auto address tap registry and to do is the consistent issue between these two registries we have two possible solutions wrong if let\u0027s see will be merged automatically that means when you define a new domain and if it applies to the address tab so you may need to to find all the attributes that is not only related to the domain but also related to the address type so when you put this domain in Z domain registry C address typewriter story will be automatically automatically generated another approach is that we will need to do is it manually that is the dependency will not be automatically generated so you have to do maybe twice you have to one the first you have to define a new domain according to its man ticks and you have to define and separate Auto but your eyes tab registry according to the definition but your main need to specify that whether they are whether they have any types of relationship or what they are relationship might be yeah so before we go on I mean we should have a small discussion on this I have a question first there technical questions so auto consistency if you choose that option and you have somebody who has you know a domain that doesn\u0027t really match the IP addresses so there\u0027s a there is no consistency actually you could always create a new dummy a domain for whatever IP addresses you have right you put a dummy address in dummy addressing to address secretary or was it the other way around well either way okay that\u0027s my question actually yeah do you mean that if I put a domain that is not related to Z an address type well correct well let\u0027s say I have some addresses that are not really you know a one-to-one match to a domain I could always create a new domain no I think the current design so the congas on is we want every single address to be a domain we believe that\u0027s correct so that every single girls type would be domain okay only promise the other way around for example a PID is another way to address type it\u0027s like for example or abstract network elements "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:46",
    "text": "it\u0027s a noun or they can be circled as you attack by there may not to be really like a traditional way of every time I see so that was my technique question from a process perspective what are the authors prefer that\u0027s question number one and other comments from the room two people have opinions can it you see one thing missing I think right now they\u0027re also trying to really go down a path of second of a manual consistency but we\u0027re not well we\u0027re wondering if there\u0027s any a like a confused from IETF working group and EFI yes you two really guided the process you have a one which uh stops another one mouth or Union register for both and what\u0027s the process do you have like an automatic electrician in one and trigger which we another one I guess that\u0027s really the question for ie and yes we actually I guess I can I also cannot answer at this time and the question is how do we move forward do do we just choose manual consistency move this ahead and see of what kind of people we get from the isg I mean that\u0027s a good idea I mean that works for me if you are if that\u0027s what they also prefer I don\u0027t see anybody in the room raising the strong opinions and in the interest of moving things ahead I\u0027m just saying and why don\u0027t we you know I I agree with you that\u0027s an interesting question but I also cannot answer it and just yeah we could forget them go to iina and get a feedback but can just first go down menu path okay second of one thank you I think Berea has a common from me to echo so Sebastian Kissel is wondering would you prefer to mean updates to the base protocol of RFC 70 to 85 I don\u0027t view it clearly sorry so the question is would your proposal mean updates to the base protocol RFC 70 to 85 I think it\u0027s to provide no no no so the question were now changing the base protocol and this has a type registry were only a being that virtually with IMA we\u0027re not going to touch the base protocol correct I think that\u0027s also my understanding yes I would have said answer the same way yes it\u0027s just justifies a relationship between the address type don\u0027t register ating the auto Facebook taco it\u0027s also a question or maybe there\u0027s some other insight I thought if you can still hear the question over I think that it answers a question I think there\u0027s a person understands I\u0027m pretty sure okay so Vijay is saying we probably need to speak to the ad or - Ayanna to see what is preferable there are two issues a what makes sense technically technically and B what is the view of the ad sigh Anna editors on how to handle this correct no I mean I agrees so I what I was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:46",
    "text": "saying you need to move this forward we can either just do it and get the feedback that way or you know seek the feet where seek the feet feedback ahead of time and I think Vijay is proposing that that\u0027s fine with me I think in the interest of moving ahead we have a lot of presentations let\u0027s move ahead but this is an issue we need to clarify with Jana and it is how we are what\u0027s possible what they suggest yes there is another comment from source go ahead please in other words if I do not care for your document for some reason and just want to register something according to the rules in 70 to 85 I do I do I do do I have to care I guess the answer is no you don\u0027t have to care correct and Richard is agreeing if you don\u0027t want to use this document to use the extension and your mail irrigates the services as defining I see 70 to 85 words I think yeah okay then go yes there are different services fitori okay go I think you do because others may use the address to look up properties from the unified property map unless you don\u0027t really want them to yeah that\u0027s a comment yeah okay so next time I guess we continue right yeah yeah so I appreciate if you can provide any comments or ideas or opinions on the above discussion yeah we will need your feedback and F C otherwise that we will only make continuous progress towards their working of lastic oh yeah I think so yeah I think you\u0027re done thank you for as chair from my perspective you make good promise you updated the document addressed so comments we just have one main outstanding issue right now the one we just discussed so let\u0027s try and the following weeks to to clarify this I mean we should have mailing lists as custom of each a may be involved or Samaria and and Jana and this see what what is their advice and then we can move as soon as we have a decision I have some advice from guys who know better we can we can make a decision and move this ahead so we just have one outstanding issue that\u0027s from chairs perspective that\u0027s great yeah just one hydrogen just want to add one comment essentially except this issue I believe this document is very well polished so therefore so that\u0027s what I\u0027m saying I totally agree in this chairs we\u0027ve discussed this I think this document is ready for working bla squad that of course we cannot do it and until we have solve this issue okay thank you very much I was you staying here how you\u0027re the next presenter as well sorry I\u0027m the chair I should be on top of things so it says "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:49",
    "text": "here which a guy was presenting on SSC so but she is right oh yeah no sorry Pat factor is next sorry I know sorry a factor is next okay please don\u0027t go ahead updates are the following sir fine so and the first point is that we it might be - we made a lot of text edits and something like clarification of the use case because I\u0027m who you may call auras document and your way of finding such differences so another much made remark is that and the structure of the whole document is all mostly really organized we made clear three building blocks in the design or review section you can find it in section 4 so with three much cling building blocks with the cost mucosa type and new domain and what is the consistency mechanisms that we could use to support a consistent information of z-pass vector and E elements in the path vector what are their properties so following this series during the building blocks we reorganize the document with one section for each and design we have introduced a new co-star which is already and quite mature and discussed in last meeting and we have defined a new domain that is in domain as you know it is moved from the unified protease and we have to talk about the comm system the same mechanisms that we used and to encourage the prospector and its related properties and domain as you okay answered for the section six it\u0027s specified with in with a domain name what is a domain specific addresses and that does it have any inherent hierarchy or inheritance or and related to this one you can find in domain registration it is registered in the auto domain registry and the specified in the section 11.3 the most important one is to do with the consistency mechanism and if you\u0027re looking for the relationship and maybe some similarity between the auto customers and property maps what\u0027s the cost of the author is the relationship between the cost map and the property map you may refer to the relationship of the network map and the cost map but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:50",
    "text": "they did have some differences and which is a major one and actually for the relationship between the customer and the network map and customers will depend on the network map but network map is independent of the customer so it is like unique directional dependency however for path vector a and protein maps it looks more like a parrot directional dependencies because in in network Emmons an impasse vector their proteins will depend on the unified properties however on the generation of the Proteus in of the alias were defined as unsecured a of the cosmic so it has a much stronger coupling issue and we actually really look for the multi-part relate multi-part service is to do is this sure but also actually encounter some problems yeah if you want to use to see these two services separately you may need to put in Z but you made me to get a response of Z and 1 cos map and the same use this responses there is the returned and is to put it in the curate input with a property maps so how to do is it relationship or how to deal with such operations is a new issue to be a tailed and we are seeking for some solutions justice oh yeah so the question is you say you\u0027re looking for solutions you have clarify don\u0027t you were looking for solutions we have solutions which are looking for decisions right problems back to work okay so you have a preferred solution again oh I will send out email right before we want people to think a little bit I\u0027ll give you hard I don\u0027t hear would have any strong feeling about which design so basically is what I call absorption embedding and versus independent and embedded which one people prefer so the later active air found them as I Central program language of problems as well so why it\u0027s the independent of what non-independent so which one do we prefer as the ietf I think right now the current design is a we go down the path of independent in a sense that were you in the multi part basically we allow objects to leave alone by himself we\u0027re composing the multi part of compose the second one problem the poor people are taking logging in long I\u0027m young language and they essentially now you take this line type you take your type anymore you can your type and we slide it down like that because I would break our protocol but we can go down at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:51",
    "text": "a pass so we\u0027re just taking the advice from from a working group okay anybody want to comment right now okay I guess we have to just have this discussion on the mailing list and hopefully we can come to a solution soon yeah right I do want to add one comment cycle the reason we\u0027re really lucky that we have removed the AE domain from us so therefore there\u0027s no dependency between unified property and it\u0027s all consider for the unified public document can move along by itself again as chair I support that anything that makes progress is gets my support okay yeah right I guess we others thank you John and yeah we need to see if we can resolve this issue as soon as possible but of course you just raised it right in a pretty close to the meaning we should have some discussion on your mailing list yeah but from the share perspective again I think this is a very close to working last call we just have one main issue that we need to resolve so that\u0027s good we thank the author\u0027s for moving this forward and so next up is Richard and by the way I\u0027m fully aware that we are behind schedule but as I mentioned before we really want to have discussions on there or get a feeling of how close we are to work and last call on the milestones so I\u0027m intentionally giving you enough time on our working group items and on the milestones after we are done with all the working group items where I have to make a check how much time we have and then probably we cut all the other presentations and half for something we have to see but that\u0027s on purpose I\u0027m aware that we are little behind schedule but yeah okay so the next one is let me look at the agenda what\u0027s the next one and you could not date using SSE right yeah okay let me start some Gretchen King SSI increment updates and we think this is very cool document and right now it\u0027s getting almost ready and they\u0027re only like a while two very small issues we won\u0027t get feedback and I think we can wrap up so what we have done and is reviewing the interim meeting and this ITF is we made design it\u0027s very stable when we\u0027ve read the talking very carefully we found a bunch of text which you can revise forever I guess and here\u0027s what we did and we did a lot of to achieve consistency facing with all text editing editing and I think the part is in terms so we could use a new term section and we think you can truly maybe the IESE reveal the cost issues therefore we introduce a term section which and all the exams also use a single example we just have like two or three examples in the document we said why don\u0027t we have two example two three examples why don\u0027t switch to a single example so therefore now we are using a single example and go across for document so that I think that\u0027s a very nice that\u0027s very clean and also between a second structure they say that we have Jason hack and we have more to patch their sections structure slightly different and we do not like it and we trim them to be consistent so therefore "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:51",
    "text": "those are the major changes and then what we did was will clarify the data are the choices you can add a major new capabilities in a document therefore we want to clarify this one as much as we can and then we clarify our requirement so we did have a few requirement up the words if we start me to go over like a mast should and really clarify how to start very nicely and without you with some some examples next slide please so here is for people who do not read a document or for example you read it and we clarify the words of lots never let me give you some like really high level overview and now the call the whole thing is the increment updatable consists of set of added streams and if each upstream would have set of these are big messages and set up a country of your messages obviously update and then working with it which is a major change is now we call it an automatic data of the message it can be a full replacement of your message or can be an incremental change of the message we use we just say incremental update message now with the update it really means a bigger things because a full replacement is also update and now increment our training also obvious sort of a wild GPS metric as custom how you call it sort of or between everything increment are between come in a change if you don\u0027t like it to us Valhalla where they sent a wallop she became asymmetry severe for now Alex much cleaner you don\u0027t have an ambiguity so that\u0027s one meter change this is not to interrupt that I have been following this discussion also remain in this area somebody\u0027s have an email explaining all this I like the word stream and I think was the clear semantics no I think it\u0027s good and then the second thing is we talked about how to make choices and turns are color making choices you look document we only said okay it\u0027s the server\u0027s responsibility to decide how you push the increment updates and in terms of accuracy most startups therefore we want to essential bring up all the start with a little more in the documents therefore to help for the designer of the server and for example here is I don\u0027t know if you can read a column that\u0027s a newer version I realized ok ok new subjects for example what\u0027s not okay is if you\u0027re using this on one catch and if you put a new value to b now actually I use this attribute we\u0027ve removed that\u0027s really unfortunate or your phone whatever depend on your polynomial but at least it means if you want a change for example and actually better to be now instead of undefined actually Jason so for we make it very clear so we miss ok the server should consider the limitations of your choices please some hatch motive have I think that actually will be of interest to generate EF but that\u0027s the thing we made a very clear next slide please and also we are there about the data update or CSI now we will give a little bit more guidance about the human truth between full replacement versus increment increment changes and if I mean changes which one should you use which is a much pad or just some patch we give all kinda like a guidance I think will be very helpful and I think we all clarify a lot in terms of document great and one more thing is in Clark we start because even with your from personal experience when you go to is mass come in so we start clarifying "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:52",
    "text": "all kind of requirements and for example we use it we add obviously masses and mass and we use all the capital and also one more thing really requirement is about a future alpha service we\u0027re on this increment late to be reusable or cross as some of us future as possible future as possible but unfortunately there\u0027s a major issue we realize is for increment are these unforgettable forces Jason patch and the motor pack because support is only a single JSON object that\u0027s never comment essentially it\u0027s oh it\u0027s a single object and if you want catch it it\u0027s a single object unfortunately that means that would requirement for all the future if you want to have the increment updates for a system and you only have to essentially include your whole thing at a single object otherwise do some patch much had you not will not even apply so I think that\u0027s a decision we made and we\u0027re not going to make any major change it was okay let\u0027s go the assumption and maybe in the future people can come with a newer pack algorithms for example can apply to multiple parallel table level objects but we\u0027re not going down this path for progress we decide to go down is simpler approach you have my full support ok so that\u0027s all and now let me just really if you follow last final touch point for this design and this pattern it\u0027s only up example for this increment up it actually a generic crime so let me get you a little bit and let\u0027s get feedback and get opinions from experts office working group the prongs falling were using HTTP an HTTP is sensually a or p4 2.0 it\u0027s unit Direction protocol and a client study requests and a server will give you a response so therefore in our increment operator stream and if you want send a request form control forum add a new stream and we have the other separate channel because there\u0027s no way of problems you know same HTTP to send a request to the server so therefore we send a request to the server interception channel and now the problem is how can a server will tell of a clan that this y is success for example you won\u0027t remove a street you can send a request from the client to the server and success give you four give you 200 successful but you don\u0027t know if this request has been processed or not because that\u0027s a separate channel and often time the program even different threads or even different processes how do we handle this issue so therefore currently a certain hour to wish notify success one is notified from a client from the control channel and second one is also in the email is a stream you know David chan two times multiple channels and it\u0027s essentially we want to have very nice thing prom he electrons foliar protocol and there are two designs and of course we can also have third you know option which company a cargo craft actually essentially is using a combination versions three we want to get a feedback from working groups that if that\u0027s good or bad and if there\u0027s no strong objection we\u0027re going to keep the current draft but if you\u0027re not and of course is essentially you can go down exam if you want go down only one and several proud will only see if they\u0027re like typical Amazon a type of service is something we present Amazon service a-ok in progress and then you probably responsive other way and so on and it\u0027s a moment where you through three to notify those channels control channel and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:52",
    "text": "centrally the sin of thing and you know their channel so let\u0027s come Pisa feedback yeah any comments from the working group from experts on this issue yes Sean please okay John Peterson I\u0027m not an expert at HP design but surely we should just ask one we should just ask one yeah like you\u0027re not packing or whatever just mix it for example we commissioned know I read people practice I see no other people who want to speak up in the room so I assumed there are no objections but John is correct as an expert if option 3 for some reason is not you know properly design from an HTTP perspective correct only how they are on design patterns which one\u0027s better right we do have a beard like I said miss a comment you know so Richard I assume you and your quarters will take care of those requests guidance from from HTTP in the next couple days all right yeah it\u0027s a good idea to maybe even do this on side here just face-to-face right correct okay and so again thank you very much for the presentation again I think we as chairs are correct that this is very close to working with last call and you agree I think yes I agree I think this is a very well polished already right so we as chairs agree so actually you if I if I go back you just presented a clarifications and updates so this is the only issue if you if you will so I really encourage you may be used to time here at the meeting to refer this with some HTTP experts and then we can really move this ahead yes yes good good suggestion right so I\u0027m looking at the agenda so now is Shawn presenting and I think he wants to present remotely I hope this works um huh right yeah yeah how does it okay I should press a button ah this one okay this is all this is cool okay can\u0027t hear me yeah we can\u0027t we do oh great this is working yeah we can see well I will show you a slice and then you can speak in parallel let me just say load two slides and see then I okay go ahead okay hello everyone i\u0027m shanley and today i\u0027m going to talk about the current status of all those idiots I met trust and then let\u0027s start from a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:54",
    "text": "summary of the changes the first one is we renamed cDNA FCI auto service to the CDN IFC I met the second one is we introduced a precise definition follow CDN IFC I met the third one is we refine the future on capabilities and the first one is with fine filter on footprints and we made extensive refinements to the examples and also we add a lot we add ia and a considerations next slide please we add the schema of the cDNA FCI map response and we make the definition structure of it consists with other already defined maps and there are two nodes one is that the definition structure is the same as the other one and we need to make clear let the cDNA FCI map data definition is defined by cDNA not Auto has its normal teeth next slide please and we clarify it\u0027s the schematic of the filtered City AFC I met it is given some capabilities which foot cream have at least one of least capabilities so follow query in the left hand side only capabilities with footprint constraint in the red in the red rectangle will be returned in the right hand side because they all have the HTTP 1.1 delivery protocol capabilities next slide please and next we consider the arrow handling of this query let each missing field arrow will cover the cases only capability type or only capability value or the value of capability value is now and the e invalid field value we all have our value of capability value is inconsistent with capability type and there are two special cases special cases here means that these cases are not arrows the specialist one is that if cDNA FCI capability is now all the value of it has no elements the author server we are returning related full cDNA FCI map and the second one is if the capability type is not defined the author server we are ignore this capability while return remaining without next slide please yes before we on the next item I\u0027m a co-author of this so speaking as individual just for the working group as a reminder and you know we have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:55",
    "text": "introducing something a new map now we call a map now a new type of file you used to call it out to service and one of the things that was an open issue was the error handling and the question was of the traditional Al Jarreau RFC seven to eight five you know has enough error messages and here are some where this is I think a key progress on this document so please continue Sean okay next thank you and and here here we introduce we introduced nude footprint on our network map and we update the encoding of auto network map footprint hello is key is below is an example first we add the dependent be text field here so that in the right hand side city NFC my FC I\u0027m f is depend on my yo net maps and then from the right hand side the bottom of the right hand side we can we can see that we used PID Germany and the South France as footprints next slide please again here just so the shorter add-on and from the beginning and I mean I\u0027ve been pushing this for a long time and from the beginning I thought Alto was there or ultra network maps was the natural choice to express footprints so here we have it used to be an example and but here we have now a clear way of doing this this doesn\u0027t mean that there couldn\u0027t be other footprints but obviously and using an outer network map makes a lot of sense yes so and we add and I consideration first we register a new city and I meet at 8 - print type Auto network map and then we register two entities domain one is E\u0026E and the other one is a ASN and the other is the country code and finally we also add an audio CD and FCI property type CD RFC a capabilities next slide please and here we want to clarify two items the first one is the media type of CD AFCI map and the filtered CD f\u0027s EMF the current the current media type of them is app allocation CDR and we plan to changes to application Auto cdnify I map Jason to be correct a general problem arise here is that we reuse the import in bedding this is the current approach or we may be needed modular embedding this me at least need a new pro approaches such as the multi part which is tabled for now and LA and the other clay clarification items is that they\u0027d had components name of sadena FC IMF and the field healthy DNI "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:55",
    "text": "XML and currently design is sitting IFC I slash map and we proposed to change to see DNI /fc I slash map so that it could consist with the network map host a map and endpoint cost met next slide please so for a next step we work on more reviews and I think when we when it\u0027s draft it\u0027s okay it\u0027s ready we will go to the working group last call I think that\u0027s all and thank you Thank You Sean so as chair I can say and we want to move this app to watch waterglass call as soon as possible of course so I think the stockmen has made good progress and individually speaking as co-author I think we are not quite there yet we need maybe to polish here and there but as far as I can tell a maybe you can comment there are no current outstanding major issues like we had on the other documents right we don\u0027t have any um major issues that need feedback from the working group correct yeah correct good so I think we just need to polish you in there and then I think this has made a good step forward any comments from the room any questions okay so thank you presenting the update and again I think this has made good progress and yeah let\u0027s see how soon we can get it to work with less call and I\u0027m okay thank you thank you okay so next on the agenda is now the first documents are being write that is not a working group ID item yet or not does not address the core milestones I\u0027m looking at the time so we are you\u0027re supposed to start at 40 right and we are so we are about 10 minutes and behind our schedule so I would ask every one of the remaining five presentations you basically everybody has two minutes less right so everybody has six minutes I\u0027m so over this but we have a full impact of Jenna and if I I think everybody agrees that the my students I\u0027m working with items very important so yeah please go ahead I try to find the slides so this is cellular address correct correct yes please this proposal was discussed already are some time ago so I will focus here on what what relates this work to actually the unified property graph actually that the main discussion there the outcome was that it really stresses the need to harmonize and to specify rules and in the auto entity "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:58",
    "text": "domain registry and the relation to the auto address type registry so next slide please okay so the updates in the current version so they expose the suitability of the proposed so called ECG I domain for both the address type registry and the address entity domain registry and so the placeholder to specify these consistency features our is the unified property draft so as already discussed today the decision is that a unified property draft will stress on new auto information services such as the property map and how to propose and specify a new address entity sorry entity registry entity domain registry and how to really be rigorously making the difference of the relation with a address type so in this version there is a new section 3 on cellular addresses so it relates the both registries as a motivation I already told is because cells can be either endpoints on which you want to query properties as if they\u0027re based protocol or they can be entities on which to query property maps Phil talked a lot so the section explains how the base protocol and the unified property trust both provides a background to allow to register a new domain type such as its each ECG I where is Jerry stems from the 3gpp terminology by the way this work actually stems back from ITF in to 2014 in Honolulu I guess it was already proposed but in the meantime the use cases have been progressing and we are going to outside G so we want to have we see the interest into using that to expand how to beyond on the ipv6 or ipv4 networks next slide so the in this version so the section 6 yeah IANA consideration was field as well again account the working group discussion and I think that text that I code here should be updated with respect to the progress that is done in the Ayane section of the unified property "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:00",
    "text": "draft I won\u0027t go into details next slide and so the further discussions will be on harmonizing those two I have the Ayane sections in those two drafts also I would like to have a discussion on what is the placeholder for new address types on you and city domains okay we know it\u0027s the auto address tag registry and auto entity domain registries we already discuss how to about the the the manual harmonization or automatic harmonization but in general the question would be how do we collect all the auto registry updates because reading the unified property draft all the base protocol gives you no hint on the existence of other so do we really want to go through the whole - all the outer drafts that proposed extensions and find out that somewhere there is a new domain or a new address type so the proposal is to give a hint in the unified property of the fact that there are currently new domain types of entity domains that are being proposed and specified next slide and yeah so so basically that\u0027s it the plans for the next section is - for the work on that I am a section and post our discussions thank you okay young common I think so I think the phone artists new address types no meanings by looking at the two registries right I think there\u0027s this website but you can look it up and see where their register is that really the question you\u0027re asking you no further discussion so number five well actually yeah I agree we know the official placeholder maybe the formulation was not so clear in my slide okay actually the issue would be how to if we focus on working group documents their goal is to specify how you define an information service how you use it so that\u0027s the focus now that\u0027s the option chosen now but on the other hand the I kind of miss something that makes people find out that there is such and such for example how if I could probably only be interested in the unified properties okay so how can I find out that there is something that like a and E so you\u0027re looking for some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "tile words index I guess sorry reverse the index yeah okay okay and any other comments questions okay then thank you in the interest of time we move on to the next presentation which is Danny and Broker Hydra base progresses of multi domain orchestration correct correct let me find that are these two correct sides hold on this is 0 0 I hope I am using you a send an update right no maybe not but I I confuse to a third that\u0027s fine I think this is a correct one you okay please go ahead good afternoon everyone my name is Danny from the University of Campinas and today I\u0027m going to talk about the use of the actor services in the context of multi-domain orchestra is sir first I will talk about one even be about the mood America trade soon after I I will impressing or purposely the production finally I will introduce some alt attention in order to support the main functionality single purpose that architecture with next a coroner future five-year net word a scenario corpora call for a broader cooperation between a stakeholders in order to provide flexible multi-terminal to Pareto services this operation will require the information with chain across multi-domain orchestrators and the O\u0027s the information to be exchanged it includes the entire network topology the social reality Orchestrator and eight points between difference administrative domain however the multi my Orchestrator faces different challenges for example the lack of a structure in order to discovery an adequately replacing the resource and topology information and the discovery of candidate autonomous system in order to provide the requirement for a mentoring network service request on another challenges next they see what these contexts and challenges or proper stirrup or opposite approach is to create a federation network empowering the top of the manager meaning orchestration play both dominguin is to discover resource and topology information from different administrative domain in the clear ratio and or design research on the ultra services to offer a staff network maps with a simplified view get enough information about motive America stature if they to involve it in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:00",
    "text": "parish next please here we can see a proposal architecture where the broker component is conservative to be working as a coordinator between a set of multi-domain Orchestrator who\u0027s the main components at the inter demanded source in order to create the article database with the entertainment resource information in the domain topology component to create a directly contradict engineering database and an artisanal use the information collected for the inter demanded source and interment ability to create to create a step maps well for example the property map can be used in order to to to have a clear global view of the resource offer it for different writer and a post map can be used for coating connectivity information for example a patch vector with the area of MN topological distance between source and destination include a manga destroyers this example can be supported with some extension to the Alta based protocol next in case of the property map the alto server must read two x rays for each property in the property map in this case the disposal pacification was extended for each property map name defining the resource capability means the corresponding property value must be encoded as a JSON array listing of a JSON string next this here we have an example where the Alta client wants to retract the entry the entry property map for pids entities with the entik point CPU memory storage under needs of service access point support and additional network functions up next and in case of the cosmic the active server must provide connectivity information for every serving drafting in a serving draft path for an end-to-end requiring this information is the a-level topological distance in the form of a path vector and this map is the set input parameter specification was extended for example they required filter eight Cosma support our service graph with a formatted body as a network function for working this name a thief\u0027s an FFD object include as a set of network function at set of megaphone shown a set of service access points a set of logical interconnection between network function service access point on Bob and Alice of influence network service requiring me Leslie I in the case of the respondent specification respond for each certificate what happening in each cell in 20 Platinum must be encoded as a JSON array of JSON arise of JSON strings as defined in the such vectors RAF is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "multiplying since request and I said multiple related the Alto server must provide associated property map information next I feel we have we are running out of time and can you finish it\u0027s only to say it is an example for definitive code map where we have forgot to client to request a perspective in this example we have to enable function with two service access point our four links onion 200 quite a minute and in the next response when we can see in it the as next steps radius to collect some information for the working group let\u0027s see thanks all right thank you very much any because I think it\u0027s very cool and the question the following we do have relief to work because you want actually another one a networking but also other resources for example CPU right yeah so the Mediacom were working with this IBM with very large US army and and and actually ok project is for CPUs they get confused so you have CPU of a would have sleep you give the BIA vas a PC you saying CPUs get confused so the computer resources information can be you know broker and give you for me TP give me mercy and now NP NSA give me information 2d and in my poster exam I have or computer storage and now do you might have fire might have 10 so I think you\u0027re trying to solve that economy using your past Becker is that the reason you reasoning that you must incur a hope a Spectre 2d class essentially to distinguish how the colors or labels or what the competition is that really the reason you do this stuff that\u0027s a long question well yeah if you have something for me they go yep okay go cry see young I don\u0027t know given a source destination pair why it needs to discover all possible paths between between of this pair to control the path question in something once like when you return only the the path vector youth you need to include all possible yet paths between source and destinations source and destination is service grappling I don\u0027t know if that would be response alright thank you very much in the interest of time we have to move on thank you and of course any more comments are on the mailing list that\u0027s certainly welcome and so we have three more presentations I am and 12 more minutes so that makes it very simple to birth divided by 3 is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:02",
    "text": "4 so the remaining three presentations each get four in minutes and first is our use case research orchestration for multi domain geodesy root areas and this is yeah please grad yeah okay thank you so how many time it\u0027s still left you have four minutes sorry so yeah so from the last item interim meeting they just present have printed the Unicom data and information impairments and odometry earlier type in the super come to in 17 and yeah and actually in this item while one we have to meet a newest version and it made the potential updates in the previous version and requests to better prepare they talked to me for the reveal from the working group and we propose an auto extension just about the accurate privacy-preserving you carried found a different member networks so maybe we can next time yeah you can see we have a lot of added in this version and include background and landed requirements and some design decisions and the dues and maybe we cannot got every details but it just nicely yeah this is a background yep so from the background we pass that the mountain domain disability patron and his system has that features the post workload and resource every bit is held a dynamics so based on these features we conduct several to Dan requirements in the next slide yeah and from the user as pad we found we need to provide the performance predictability and the efficient resource sharing and from the member networks aspect we need to achieve the high resource utilization and when implement in the privacy and autonomy autonomy of the member networks also in to provide a capability so next one so we review some existing design of the many systems in our document and found that this system cannot satisfy these requirements because they are lacking our information model T spots as a result of curry first precise so next one so in the unicrone our system the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "fundamentalism decision is to charge the out who as a resource information model for the several reasons and cannot talk about the videos just next right yeah so we just use a kind of architecture of the unicrone system which including the auto server and plant and some excuse agent to take the tasks from the application and discover a resource from the different member networks and fill the straight face we saw this car really precise and we will talk the videos in the next night yeah and at the first date faith I think you\u0027re running out of time I\u0027m sorry yeah so I mean the sites are not in the data tracker and so people want to have a detailed look and do you want to wrap up to do you have a final slide work in summary yeah maybe that\u0027s a good yeah sure great finalized since that in day Webster so so you\u0027re encouraged to provide a you know land for the last key medical meters in her case at least in the auto working touch and we plan to submit a full paper to Melissa super come to 18 and from the last Keo demonstration and the deployments just by maybe idea by all serene yeah thank you so much thank you and any comments right now I mean I\u0027d see obviously you put a lot of effort into updating this so that\u0027s great and obviously it\u0027s not a charter item right Mouse we have to see how we can move this forward but thank you for the presentation are there any quick comments otherwise to be fair I would allocate another four minutes for the next two documents sure so next one is the FCI\u0027s happy is which one so yeah flow paste costumer yeah and you\u0027re presenting as well yeah all right great George next page please go ahead so so so we just highlight the major update of the the latest version of the absolute card the move the second sticks as well the flow based Curie out of these documents and which in the output rest have complex registry to the auto dressed have bility registry and the reason i will talk about in the next slide yeah okay so so before we talk about the news is a review just recall the our requirements and proposed all the FCS probably in the last item meeting we just give it yeah sure so so in the in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:04",
    "text": "this working out the got away just so there were many issue from the last item meeting the first language we want to show how to achieve a unified theory model because we have two different model design options and a other issues how to resolve the flow attribute complex because a well definition from the clan reference may be embarrassed so we want to allow the server to notify this ready T to the clan as early as possible so network so we can we have not found a unified model to integrate outdated and options that we just compare the existing to desire genes and you can see in the for the person master technician here that decision can achieve the battery with mobility and the can reduce the request ties and it\u0027s extensible enough and there is simple enough I\u0027ll do it\u0027s the flexibility of this design decision better than the another one but we will introduce some at rest time newest new aggressed had to make his to support some use cases yes and enough so next day and this is a new a grass-type we just introduced in this document or use each age age to suppose a maybe layer to flows between the inter personal networks and we use it to mean to spoil the city in your cases and the way you CP and you in code so get dressed and it can support the floor level scheduling and the other major use case about we want to saw in the photo and yes one so I think again we have to wrap up I\u0027m sorry because we have four more presentation do you want me to move to the okay so again right sorry right okay so you want to wrap up yes piece yeah so coming from the working group later in their meaningless yeah yeah I think because we\u0027re running out of time we refer any discussed to the meatiness regarding working group item you know that you as chairs want to finish the myosin so not at this time and let\u0027s see what goes on after we finish the milestones with the working group I see there is a lot of interest in new work and so we have to see but not at this point in time thank you yes thank you alright so we have guy presenting on earth outer path vector compression and maybe we have like four five minutes left you see online I have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:07",
    "text": "a metric pattern here you need to press an hour wait for him to raise his voice on meet echo I think he you should require hi are you online can you join the queue if you cannot maybe I can just have him quickly go over the slides yeah I think I open the sides first and maybe just again started presenteth Kai if you\u0027re online and you can join the queue and please do so I can then press the magic button and you are online because I think this makes too much fatty this he sounded but maybe he\u0027s on yeah I press the button sorry I think it didn\u0027t work but which is so we on our ultra power factor compression I\u0027m just trying to find the slides how to abstract and last one this one yeah yeah okay yeah just if you can present them that\u0027s probably best here I can quickly go over the slides because we do not make too much update in this version ah here\u0027s guy I pass to Barney oh okay wonderful so thank you Jason so I do a remote presentation thank you young and I hit a ground KY and today I\u0027m going to prison in the ER say draft since we are running out of time I would give some of the pictures that involve technical details and key Bonio quick summary so next time peace so here the summary of the draft for those who may not be familiar with learning state abstraction so it is short for running state abstraction and instead of algorithms to provide information for a set up correlated flows so the information is encoded as in Auto has spectral response so how\u0027s our civility to our working group drafts first it provides a commutation of the path vector extension as a stand is there no implementation and you can also be used to compress and improve the privacy of an existing path spectral response without loss of information so next up is here we summarize the changes since the last version since the overall structure of the Tramp is pretty stable after 0-7 we are focusing on improving the clarity so in this revision which changes symbols that might look complex and extended examples to demonstrate the intermediate state for example if I always omit a multiple iterations we demonstrate the results after each iteration well in version 7 we only demonstrate the results after the first iteration so next up is here\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:07",
    "text": "just a summary of the contents of the RC draft it contains Tuesday\u0027s algorithm the first dating includes a three August and to tell people how to do the compression and the same set includes the encoding and decoding of information basically how do we extract formation for the passport or extension and how to put information in into a pass vector response so we can\u0027t since we don\u0027t have much time we can just directly go to page 15 yeah thanks I mean the spots are online for people to look at they are in the data track hunter so that is okay so here is a summary of the ours to draft we have this kind of rows of this draft and also the updates in the rated version so it is targeting informational track and we have not updated that this you know draft and I will do this in the next revision and we also like to cover reviews from the ring group and to adopt this document as a Wynkoop draft after the milestones are set Thank You Kai and regarding the usefulness of this work I as speaking as Cherokee you see the usefulness I mean compressing path factors regarding process moving is through working bottom my answers to the same as for the last one let\u0027s finish the milestones first and then see if we reach out at the working group or not and so I\u0027m going to coach other we had a discussion with Mara and I think she fully agrees with me Jaime that we want to finish the current milestones and then we have to see from each other so and if we do that then certainly this is a possibility but we wouldn\u0027t make it work in vitam right now okay thank you for presentation I\u0027m happy that it worked out remotely and we are running over time so I think we are done I\u0027m happy that we made all the presentations and we got a good overview on the status of all working group items and one last comment vijay mentioned that he is looking forward to the meeting in montreal and he\u0027s very hopeful that he can be there so i\u0027m not sure yet i have to see but we are mostly meeting in montreal and hopefully there we can close a lot of the or by then actually i\u0027ll be impressed most of the working with less cause that we have on the agenda okay thank you very much enjoy the ITF meeting and hope to see most of you are at the sochi event tomorrow okay bye yep i\u0027ll two out "
  }
]