[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:46",
    "text": "well it\u0027s 9:30 oh that Brian Brian we cannot hear you well we can sort of hear a squawky noise we kind of heard you in order for them to talk they have to join the queue and I have to on Brian joined the queue and I unmuted him but then all we heard was the squawky noise so something\u0027s fighting might be a medical problem that\u0027s gonna be annoying Dave I\u0027m still waiting for those slides so I know magic of the ethernet of the Internet takes a little bit of course if I do get them I figure out how to present them I may have to steal the connection and they they may not oh okay I can do that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:48",
    "text": "[Music] no no Dave are you sure they went out I got some other mail but not yours okay let\u0027s do it well let me check my junk you never know nope you\u0027re not jumped alright I\u0027m a little concerned that the Medeco is not working can folks hear us at all we having trouble connecting to jabber as well if anybody can hear us on Medeco can you just join the queue and I can see that shift here all right we have Brian and Spencer joining the queue so at least some people can hear Brian can we hear you any better yeah ah we can hear you kind of - all right let me shift it Spencer Dawkins yeah so this this looks like this looks like me that looks and sounds like you fabulous thank you all for having me alright well I\u0027m going to assume that we\u0027re up and running as best we can and I call the meeting to order so the blue sheets are out there okay everybody\u0027s signing the blue sheets thank you very much we have a somewhere here our meeting materials Thank You Spencer Shepler that\u0027s the regular agenda I also have the other agenda here that is hopefully not queued up on this I\u0027m sorry Dave now well there is an agenda with a slide and the standard IETF if we go down here to agenda slowly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:03",
    "text": "and benefice before leaving materials they actually have slowly oh isn\u0027t this helpful eh no well page so this is just the no well reminder IETF policies are in effect everything you say is a contribution thank you very much all right agenda no you can\u0027t deduct it on taxes nor your Canadian taxes I\u0027m sure so here\u0027s the agenda prepared prior to the meeting we should bash it briefly Chuck lever has two items to present integrity management architecture and RPC argument crediting those slides are online Tom Haines has the open delegation versus delegation state IDs that presentation is online and the additional ten minutes for delegation they\u0027re all in one deck so the del sta tid thing as well as offline files like it sounds like they\u0027ve Nomex slides were sent but have not been uploaded I will try to do that offline Dave I do have your slides now the magic with the internet has delivered them finally so we\u0027ll try to get those on the web page before the presentation begins and the time 15 and 20 for Chuck 20 10 and 10 for tom 20 and 20 for Dave anything to bash I\u0027m good okay Chuck do you want me to present and you can simply speak there\u0027s a taped off little thing that the camera will capture you you have a red tape I\u0027m not sure Lee policy for what you don\u0027t have to spend well that\u0027s gonna photograph 3% okay there is a remote and you may have it the only problem is I can\u0027t figure out how to escape this to get back to these are ietf or provided long time "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:11",
    "text": "to support or that\u0027s that\u0027s a pretty narrow every homes somewhere here I\u0027m sure there\u0027s the way to get to full screen [Music] so I hopefully this oh dear dear thank you I hope you can hear me now the the whole point of this will be revealed in just a moment as I describe the use case but what we want to do is basically have a feature that would be very useful in cases in cloud workloads large-scale virtualization environments what I\u0027ve been calling it and also this is appropriate and appropriate it fits into our city and you know address us new security challenges and I can see that as I go on but I just wanted to mention that up front I think this fits well into our chart so what is this thing what is this thing all about this is a integrity measurement architecture "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:11",
    "text": "this is something that IBM cooked up a few years back they\u0027ve been implemented and implementing it in Linux on local file systems and more recently they\u0027ve sort of been thinking about what it might take to put it into a remote file system I think they were looking at SMB first not really thinking of NFS but the nice earth came along and said you know I\u0027ve been asked to look at making NFS support ima and they\u0027re like oh this is interesting to us and so the Linux I am a community has sort of perked up their ears and they\u0027re interested in this as well or it just didn\u0027t see what happens but basically ima is a form of integrity checking its end to end in the sense that it would it would be done entirely on the on the on NFS clients it\u0027s done not by applications but just under applications in the in the BFS of the operating system but other than that it is and and it\u0027s done and when the file is created by the virtual file system on the client and then it\u0027s checked by the virtual file system on the client when it when the file is read back from the server and per file it\u0027s per file for fun right you know it\u0027s kind of would not work if it was for file system Wooper block was the other right my original and endand integrity proposal of a few years ago was black oriented and that is obviously not a very good fit for a file paradigm so what we\u0027re basically doing is taking in a hash of the file contents and it\u0027s stored in a way that\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s basically hooked to the file the the hashes are H Mac hashes and in order to protect them they can be signed cryptographically and I\u0027ll talk a little bit about how the hash signing material is protected so this is sort of a rough idea of what the use case is what we want to do our first our primary use case right now is protecting executables binary\u0027s basically on mobile devices which don\u0027t have anything new with NFS but this is just an example you you basically want to detect intrusion or even replacement of applications for example if someone were to root your phone you basically want to know whether the executables have been replaced or not in cloud environments the cloud tenants also want to be able to have a good idea that the executables that are being provided to them by the cloud provider is actually coming from a langston reader and has not been replaced by some malicious or even a well intended third party and it turns "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:12",
    "text": "out you know my employer is working on becoming a cloud provider and they\u0027re interested in using NFS to provide software distribution for guests for tenants guests and so this is why we\u0027re kind of interested in and making sure that those executables that are provided over Annabeth\u0027s can be checked for integrity by the tenants themselves so as I mentioned what we\u0027re basically doing is is is computing a hash of a contents of a file and then storing the H Mac this would be done by the software distributor or the or basically a Linux computer distributor like Red Hat as they are building a distribution they would sign each of these executables and then whenever the executables used on a on an FS client for example the H Mac would be the signature be checked and the H Mac would be used to verify the file content and I think it\u0027s important to note that we\u0027re not using the the verification doesn\u0027t use open it\u0027s basically four executables and executables when they\u0027re run they\u0027re not you don\u0027t do an open on them they\u0027re they\u0027re run via exec so that\u0027s why the BFS that\u0027s why this is all done in the BFS it\u0027s not it\u0027s not exposed to applications in any way I may also more recently as is allowed the verification of some file attributes we\u0027ll get to those in a minute but there are some complications there but we can verify so just the TLDR is we can verify the file contents and a few of the file attributes as well so this slide slide 6 describes exactly what\u0027s in my proposal in the document that I opened the presentation with right now we\u0027re only talking about immutable files in other words it would be executables that aren\u0027t change very frequently basically when you change an immutable file what happens is the files destroyed and then the distributor creates a new file with a new H Mac so the document also describes the protocol that the client uses to retrieve the H Mac hashes and also the protocol that the client administrative plan for example would use to to set the H max and as I mentioned there are some there\u0027s a small set of file attributes that can be verified that set is variable so in other words there there certain attributes that are always going to be verified in there some that are optional bait may or may not be verified and the set of which file attributes are verified is set for all the files on one file system and the clients have to know which ones are verified in order to to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:12",
    "text": "verify the the attribute age Mac there\u0027s only one attribute a Mac even in the local file system case we recognized that performance of this kind of verification is going to be a concern when you throw in a roundtrip with a server it\u0027s going to be even worse so we\u0027re gonna have to think hard about ways of optimizing the verification of hmx on large files especially basically we want to have for example mechanisms that will allow us to verify a part of the file there are pretty well known ways of doing that and we can get into that later it turns out that some of the attributes that are are they\u0027re talking about verifying on local file systems are extended attributes that aren\u0027t exposed via NFS like smack security attributes for example so that\u0027s going to be a problem we\u0027re gonna have to deal with that somehow probably today it\u0027s going to be we don\u0027t support that if there\u0027s a if the file system supports SMAC attributes in there they\u0027re actually part of the set of verified attributes then those files can\u0027t be accessed that\u0027s kind of a scan I have to work for now I also note that there are certain security sensitive attributes like NFS before ackles that are not currently in the set of attributes that are verified by IMA we\u0027ll have to talk to the I\u0027m a community about what to do about those then the problem with bringing this into the standards world this I\u0027m an NFS is that there aren\u0027t any published standards that define what what I am a is there there\u0027s a lot of material there\u0027s code there\u0027s a wiki everybody has a wiki but there\u0027s no published standard it\u0027s not like a POSIX standard even an existing one or withdrawn one there just isn\u0027t one so we\u0027re gonna have to deal with that somehow probably will have to make this informational or I\u0027m not sure what we\u0027ll have to do with the the NFS trap that I\u0027m working on but somehow we\u0027re gonna have to deal with that eventually we want to support the ability for clients to actually change certain files in other words they want to modify the content of file and recompute the H Mac there\u0027s been recent talk about what we want to do about protecting file names I\u0027m not sure what the use case is there but they\u0027re talking about storing in H Mac that verifies the content of directory and then as I mentioned there are there a number of extended attributes that aren\u0027t supported in the best that we will probably want to support sometime in the future now as part of that links has this thing called file capabilities "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:13",
    "text": "lots of actually lots of operating systems have something like this but basically what we do is we chop up the super user privilege in two smaller pieces like this and they\u0027re assigned to an application just like you set a set user set user ID bit on a on a root owned executable and that gives basically all of routes capabilities to that whenever that executable runs we basically chop that up and so you know caption means that the executable can can change the ownership of files but it can\u0027t do anything else so this what file capabilities are the links form of doing this Solaris also has something that\u0027s very similar but not the same and the reason why I\u0027m bringing this up is because the the set of file capabilities is one of the verified attributes that I\u0027m a supports NFS does not support this right now and so this is one of the things we\u0027d liked it to have support for an NFS so that we can support with this we can protect it with I ma so these slides basically last few slides I can walk through them the detail or in just sort of browse through them on your own but basically this is the idea that I want to bring final capabilities also to NFS so what I would do is I\u0027d probably write another document originally I had folded both file capabilities and I may into one but they have similar but really separate issues and so I decided that would be better if we got through the simpler one first which is I am a and then we can look at doing capabilities so it would the you know the form of that proposal would be some very similar it would be a draft that would describe an extension nfsv4 point to and it would cover some of these some of the ball points on this slide so this one does have the final capabilities is based on a POSIX draft but is withdrawn and of course the Linux implementation of file capabilities is heavily modified from that draft it doesn\u0027t look like Solaris Gate file capabilities it\u0027s very similar but the semantics of the capabilities individual capabilities is different than what Solaris offers so we need to have some way of defining how a inter operation between a Linux client that supports valid capabilities and a Solaris clan or some other client that supports valid capabilities how that would work it turns out there\u0027s also the ability to associate set of file capabilities with a particular user name space user name space basically means in Linux a container I\u0027m not sure how that\u0027s gonna work but that can you can you use the microphone thank you is there any mapping mapping to you between user name "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:14",
    "text": "space and NFS there isn\u0027t really that\u0027s one of the issues that we have to deal with it\u0027s that\u0027s a complicated one and that\u0027s one of the reasons why I split this one out to a separate proposal and it\u0027s not even clear to me that we can say that user 77 on client a is the same as user 77 on client B I\u0027m just not sure how that\u0027s gonna work the user the user namespaces don\u0027t look there they don\u0027t look like the the user at domain ID mapping strings that we\u0027ve got I mean there so I\u0027m hand waving a lot because I just don\u0027t understand how this is gonna work and and some thinking right it\u0027s thinking is going to have to go into this that\u0027s fine so that\u0027s this that\u0027s this complete slide deck any questions anybody think this whole idea is crazy and I should stop right now and put my pencil down looks like somebody has something yeah one sec Spencer we have a question on the floor yeah I I just suggest that you settle the capability thing as fast as possible because you don\u0027t want rich caps right so you don\u0027t want to have Windows capabilities you don\u0027t have UNIX capabilities and have to have the document that describes how to version like we had with apples I say you want to address it head-on that\u0027s all I do want to address it head-on I\u0027m just not sure about timing I mean I think we can get I\u0027m a done without tying it to capabilities but I would like to see both done so yeah Spencer don\u0027t one sec Dave\u0027s Dave one sec Spencer Dawkins has a question well okay go ahead one second thank you okay so I was just going to say a couple of things you know you\u0027re talking about you know is this informational and things like that the the the the thing I would say is that would encourage you all to do the right thing and make the chairs and the area director figure out what to do with it but but doing the right thing is never something I were going to speak against it see if I\u0027m understanding this correctly it\u0027s like you have ima attributes that are exposed by an offense before and vice versa this seems like this could be a really interesting conversation to have if that if there was kind of lacing those things more tightly together in my my understanding that or is that wrong mmm I\u0027m not sure I understand the question you know the previous slide where were you were you were talking about previous previous yeah keep going back yeah this one here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:16",
    "text": "where it\u0027s like you know here\u0027s some little X attribute that aren\u0027t exposed that are interesting bye-bye here are some things that are you know verified it seems like that this is if if doing ima is a good thing it seems like this might be a good thing you know a good opportunity to tie some things together you know if this is useful over here but it\u0027s not exposed over there these do you see what I\u0027m saying I\u0027m trying to imagine who and the I\u0027m a community we can engage with this yeah excellent so that was there was my third thing and then I will you to get so no published standard defining ima so that\u0027s there\u0027s an eye of a community that is broader than IBM now is that right right it\u0027s an upstream Linux community yes okay okay any chance that they might want a published standard defining I obey I can certainly address the question to them I am Not sure I\u0027m expert enough about what the requirements are for our draft you know is a is pointing to a live URL a wiki page enough for this or you know what exactly do we need you have any documentation that describes you know what I need to qualify the citation that I do in my document dude so wait so you know our deal is basically well you know what is the best references you could point to right which which you know perfect world would be you know would be immutable and great and and things like that but recognize you know what you\u0027re talking about here you\u0027re kind of accommodating something that\u0027s not all that nail down yes yes but but but if but if doing that is the right thing to do then it seems like to me that we should be able to find a way to do that I think I think that the I think yeah I think the criteria for references and things like that for standards track would be a lot higher yep so we know we can have conversations about yeah about informational or even experimental but but the how a bit almost to make us figure that out okay so you say you don\u0027t have all right yes I\u0027ll appreciate any any help and we\u0027ll talk more offline about exactly how I should start that conversation with what the ima community Dave any of the follow up Chuck basically asked for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:16",
    "text": "you our view about his sandy well I think there\u0027s definitely insanity here but it\u0027s not chucks that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s a fair you know just because there is a Linux community working on ima doesn\u0027t mean that the entire Linux community has acquiesced and bought off on this concept but this is what we have right so if I mean I agree with I agree with Spencer that that it is important to work that out and if this data is stored on manna-fest servers for years to come we want to make sure it\u0027s useful for years to come so you know so the the I\u0027m ace the ima metadata is H Mac hashes well that\u0027s that\u0027s a stem might be the right choice I don\u0027t know that that\u0027s what they do and that\u0027s what they expect to store there and so and that already had in RFC that describes it so that\u0027s easy I the the I\u0027m a part for hashing contents of a file it\u0027s very straightforward it\u0027s these other little details about its let me ask a follow-up question are you seeing that the I thought the client was the one that computed the HVAC and sent it to the server and the server simply returned that value later so the client waving and not the server and not the protocol it\u0027s not actually protocols not computing right it could be any algorithm any hash algorithm it\u0027s just that it happens to be h mac as the client computes it someone computes it will say someone confuses the client but does the protocol require it not noted in a specific way that\u0027s Mike no but the protocol we might want to put in the protocol way of saying this is an H Matt cash versus some other kind of hash shall the tag that says this yes okay right but no the protocol doesn\u0027t get its hands on these things we have another question it\u0027s just uses as a transport quite apologetic nuran coming in this late you said a cryptographically signed age matt hash does this presuppose a public key infrastructure because otherwise yes everything is within the plan system what are you really proving your attack good luck um I kind of brushed over this in an earlier slide there so the second bullet on clients the keys are stored in a trusted computing module and they\u0027re they\u0027re distributed via some hand-wavy outer space mechanism so for example the in a mobile device the keys would be installed by the manufacturer for example on NFS clients there were some be some other mechanism but there\u0027d be some sort of trusted computer module available on clients to manage and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:16",
    "text": "secure the key material does that help and then just before we move on to go back to Tom\u0027s point about where these things are actually computed so they can be computed on the server and stored on the server for example a cloud provider might take a golden master DVD from Red Hat for example and put that insulation media on the server and as part of that installation process the hmx are computed there and then exported to two clients that\u0027s a that\u0027s another use case client you know I think in in the cloud tenant use case the the clients aren\u0027t are not actually computing these H max they\u0027re they\u0027re only consumers of them very slowly navigating this very annoying laptop to get to your next presentation so about a year ago I think we\u0027d start talking about RPC over already made - then exactly what or maybe it\u0027s been longer than that and we had a couple of interesting ideas that we wanted to go with there I think what I\u0027m going to do with this next presentation is solicit opinions about exactly how we\u0027re going to fix the problem of credit management and and I hope to demonstrate that it\u0027s a problem that we do need to solve in version two and we need to figure out exactly if there is a problem if there are more than one problem we need more than one issue we need to figure out where these fish which issues we need to address and which ones we can leave battery cover keeps falling off this okay I\u0027ll be helping to navigate that it stops what can you see okay so I just talked about this slide what shortcomings do we need to address in v1 I think that\u0027s that\u0027s the question I want you to hold in your heads as I\u0027m giving this talk so I\u0027m just gonna briefly talk about exactly what credits are and how it works in b1 today the transport the RPC transport on our DMA has a flow control mechanism in it so that the server is not overrun this mechanism is credit-based it\u0027s not pause "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:17",
    "text": "based or lost base or rate base it\u0027s it uses credits and that has a particular meaning the receivers have the authority to grant credits to senders basically that\u0027s a that\u0027s a capability to receive one piece of like it could be a message or a number of bytes anyway a credit has a particular meaning depending on the protocol but the receiver grants a credit to the sender and the sender waits until a credit has been granted before it transmits and then in that way the receiver is able to to put back pressure on the sender and prevent it from over running it so an RPC over already maybe won a credit is equal to a transaction RPC transaction to call and reply so it\u0027s it\u0027s not based on the number of bytes some transport protocols do it that way but we don\u0027t we it\u0027s one RPC transaction and the RPC reply the responder grants a credit so that\u0027s how the credit grant gets from from the receiving end to the sending in responder is the receiver so and then as part of this protocol exactly one credit is available as soon as the connection is established and then that\u0027s that\u0027s of course before the first reply has been sent so one credit is available for the first reply so this so there are some other features of our credit architecture I think the two that are well non windowing is probably the most important one what that basically means is our RPC of already made one responders tell that the requesters exactly how many total RPC calls can be done they don\u0027t they don\u0027t tell how many I\u0027m not saying this right it\u0027s kind of complicated Tom do you you help me out I like let\u0027s see if I can help ya instead of issuing the Delta as a stream of Delta\u0027s right it issues the absolute value which is cred generally doesn\u0027t change which which may or may not be changing and which also is possibly shifted in time right there\u0027s no window as to describe you\u0027re not granting a credit request retired for instance Europe you\u0027re just saying here\u0027s the new number so so to put it in terms of real numbers of the links and if a server for example sets up 32 received buffers and so the number of credits that gives to the two clients is 32 all the time it says I can take 32 and that doesn\u0027t matter how many are pending like all 32 buffers might be consumed at one moment but the credit grant is still 32 so it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:17",
    "text": "not we\u0027re doing and then adaptive means that the responders credit grant can change during lifetime of connection in other words if the server gets busy it can reduce the credit grant assets as I say 16 to create some but more back pressure on clients non when doing is important in a subsequent slide so so put a stick of pain in that one so this mechanism has a number of shortcomings it\u0027s done all right so far for handling most NFS B 3 B 4 workloads but there are some there\u0027s some lack of generality and some some things that we just can\u0027t do with this so let me walk through some of those problems today if there\u0027s no RPC transaction involved in a send or receive then we can\u0027t support that because a credit is is connected to an RPC transaction so for example if I want to do a control plane message it\u0027s not gonna have an RPC X ID associated with it I can\u0027t I can\u0027t really support that with this with this mechanism because it\u0027s got to have an RPC message it\u0027s got to be sending an RPC message probably the biggest one is it doesn\u0027t support unpaired messages the number one most frequent most common type of unpaired messages retransmission so today for example when the likes client has to retransmit basically what it does is it send it drops the connection because that\u0027s it has to reset the the credit ramp and dropping the connection is the only way to do that today well to be fair was expected it\u0027s a it\u0027s a reliable connection so requests should never be lost by the transport they should only be lost by the upper layer right illegal as well still the upper layer loses things on occasion or there are there occasions where the upper layer is on fire for retransmission the credits are awkward yeah yes now we don\u0027t have any use cases in NFS but a unicast a call without a reply is not supported the original RPC already maybe one had an RDM a done procedure that was a one-way transmission and that\u0027s not supported there\u0027s no RPC message well there is an RPC it\u0027s part of a purpose to transaction but it\u0027s a one-way and then you know unsolicited descends from responder to requester are not supported I don\u0027t have a good use case for that but well that\u0027s right mmm right yes right so one thing that\u0027s not on your list that\u0027s been discussed this message continuation where you with right heaven you have send reply that\u0027s right near one it\u0027s on eight slide eight right here yes okay yes I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:20",
    "text": "agree I haven\u0027t gotten to that yet so for example if we wanted to use multiple our team a sends to send a single RPC call we can\u0027t do that today because it\u0027s one calling one reply one message one will call message one reply message today Tom mentioned bi-directional RPC one of the problems we had with that is that we had to reuse the credit field but as soon as you\u0027re doing a call in both directions that the credit grant the credit the use of the credit field is ambiguous we don\u0027t we\u0027re really not sure whether you know if there\u0027s no if there\u0027s so well this is hard to explain just trust me this is a problem it\u0027s okay until one side wants to send an error an already our D mayor yeah that\u0027s the problem and then I mentioned this before if one side loses track of the credit grants there\u0027s no way to synchronize except I drop any connection and there really isn\u0027t any other there there\u0027s an a way for the for one side to go oh gee whiz I lost can you send me the the grant again or can you update my grant or you know it\u0027s just like you just have to drop the connection and start from one that that seems a pretty inspirational for being a protocol issue it\u0027s a client issue if it forgets right or a pure issue but well again the things that I just went through all those things can and can cause a loss of synchronization but yeah I agree there\u0027s either their implementation bugs with that that would result in this most frequently in in all right generally it\u0027s not a problem of the protocols well design and then here\u0027s another stretch we don\u0027t have any way of guarantee quality of service in the sense that you know one side with the other side may want to say I don\u0027t ever want to go down to one don\u0027t ever take me all the way down to one you know I want to have at least four or at least eight so in my experience credits are a terrible way to implement quality of service that\u0027s legitimate but we can\u0027t do that even if we want okay so and then finally I want to tie this into our teammate our PC or our team a version two what we want to do one of the extensions that we wanted to allow not necessarily defined in the base protocol but allow as an extension to the protocol is the ability as Dave mentioned to send an RPC that consists of multiple our team a sends multiple messages and without yeah with that with the current credit accounting that we have in our team a RPC our team a version one we cannot do that so so this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:22",
    "text": "is the basic reason why I believe we have to fix this problem in be - we can\u0027t just sort of hand wave and say oh it\u0027s gonna be vixen and exchange and extension I think that the base v2 protocol has to address this so here\u0027s some of the things that we kind of like to be able to support in v2 eventually not in the base protocol but eventually is an extension to it so we\u0027d like to get rid of moderate sending moderate-sized our pcs using an RD may read those are kind of expensive there\u0027s there\u0027s an extra round trip there we would like to do that using our DMA send and one way to do that is by sending using multiple cents for one RPC one of the things I\u0027ve always wanted to be able to do is allow a client to cancel an hour an ongoing RPC transaction and the reason you want to do that is because the clients exposing memory and if someone hits ctrl C and the applicant or the application dies that memory registration goes away and the server is still running the RPC transaction and it will try to write into that memory and will fail and that will cause the connection to die and to avoid that we basically want the client to have mechanism in the protocol to say oh by the way this memory is no longer available so you can you can either finish running this transaction or just stop it now but don\u0027t try to write back into this memory and I know that that tom has some disagreement about whether that is a effective or not but it\u0027s something that I think cancellation can be effective yeah I\u0027m I\u0027m open to your proposal okay and then I\u0027d written another I\u0027d written a draft that\u0027s actually probably expired today but it expired just today that I\u0027m planning to refresh but I want to provide a mechanism for being able for the server to return an arbitrarily large RPC reply basically today the clients have to estimate how large the reply message can be and sometimes they get it wrong because the upper layer protocols there are certain operations in the NFS protocol for example it\u0027s difficult like for example get a call yeah Eckles named attribute yes you know right there\u0027s no way for the client to put an upper bound on the size how is that different from the RPC request continuation that you mentioned in the earlier true enough thank you Dave you know in advance for those who didn\u0027t hear on the thing when sending the request you know how big it is when receiving the reply you may not know how big it\u0027s going to be also in v2 I think I think we would like to put reverse direction operation right into the the base protocol and there there been error reporting I mentioned right here was one of the the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:23",
    "text": "Bugaboos with it but also the fact that in the reverse direction the receiver has to sniff the are cracy message to see which direction is going in which is a glaring violation that\u0027s ugly but we kind of held our nose noses our collective noses and went with it for a version one for version two I don\u0027t think we have to do that so on this slide I\u0027m hoping to get the conversation going by men some possible fixes we might consider this is certainly not an exhaustive list of possible fixes but one thing we\u0027re definitely going to have to do is instead of gating I already may sends on RPC transactions we\u0027re going to have to do it some other way to allow multiple sends / / RTC transaction as I said the non windowing aspect of version 1 credit management was important one thing I think we might want to do is consider changing to a windowing scheme instead in other words through the responder would provide a dynamic credit grant saying I have this many buffers free right now and it would be the total number of - the number of pending are PCs I\u0027d rather than always the total number that wouldn\u0027t require next er change but I think that\u0027s something we should consider one thing I\u0027ve seen other protocols do is they have a credit field in their transport header for each direction on the connection so one credit field for client to server or RPC transactions and one credit field for server to client in other words reverse direction or we could take our 32-bit credit grant field and split into two 16-bit yes depending on you know how creative we want to get with it these in the draft these approaches there\u0027s they\u0027re not written down a draft yet not yet okay at least I don\u0027t think they\u0027re so you want feedback on these today or feedback yes today if you can but that\u0027s not necessary okay well and then the last bullet is the idea is to add a new proc RT may act but it\u0027s only job would be just to akka an unpaired send and but at all it could also be used to convey the current grant so it could use it to recover from a situation where one side that lost sync or had sent a retransmission okay questions suggestions you are permitted to question my sanity as always well I guess I have a cup they\u0027re just questions let me ask a fundamental one RPC RDMA was always tied to having RPC and in particular NFS although others were envisioned as the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:24",
    "text": "upper layer do you do you envision this is becoming a layer of its own without the support of an upper layer useful to other protocols for instance well I mean for example you could apply to an existing legacy protocol like I know him well yeah but those are all RPC protocols right yeah is an RPC transport protocol so it\u0027d be ok so you\u0027re gonna stick to that plan that it\u0027s an SCC transport yes ok it has results in argument arguments and results attached yes as methods and yes the views of this transport is to move our PCs you do want the single-ended behavior requests without a response or a broadcast that kind yes and yes RBC allows that and you want to add cancellation those are two things of note that are not in our PC today broadcasts or guests in our PC yeah yes all right well the are our teammate Act would require some sort of it would require the X ID to be a rather important part of the RPC our DMA protocol which today it\u0027s not today it\u0027s just a copy of the next ID that\u0027s at the upper layer but you\u0027re our teammate ack would allow it to handle you know a request without a response for instance so the x ID would be the only identity that i think that would up the pressure on the X ID which is a really weak field right so the act would have to be part of an RPC transaction well we couldn\u0027t use it for example you may need a better name for the operation you know then the X I do today well one of the things we\u0027ve been talking about is having control cleaning operations as well and if which wouldn\u0027t have an X ID I know AXA did all right so obviously if it requires an X ID it wouldn\u0027t work for control plane operation well you may want to define think about defining some sort of RPC RDMA you know request space right as a sequence number or some sort of identifier in the RPC RDMA stream that names each message or that names each set of messages if you\u0027re gonna fragment them and you know reassemble them on on receipt in other words making credit accounting also be half a sequence ID in other words yeah I asked back a credit grant it sounds like you\u0027re gonna violate the ordering principle in the sense that you\u0027re gonna intermingle requests and replies on a channel for instance are you going to be able to insert things like a cancel that aren\u0027t logically part of the data stream or other control messages and so I think I think you\u0027re gonna define a new sequence space at the RPC RDMA layer that is not currently there many protocols will simply use an ordering principle for this let\u0027s say we are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:24",
    "text": "going to start sending fragments and then every message that follows until you get it done bit is a member of this fragment sequence but you know you might be able to insert something in that sequence now and that breaks the ordering well what if you said I you can\u0027t send one of these control plane messages until you completed the send of a of an upper layer mess right you could make that you could make that requirement but that you\u0027re gonna explicitly add that processing requirement to our PC RDMA that wasn\u0027t there today isn\u0027t there to do so I I think it\u0027s an opportunity to think through how you\u0027re gonna name operations in RPC RDMA space right now they simply inherit the name of the X ID of the RPC operation that they\u0027re carrying and that\u0027s why they look the way they are that\u0027s why I said aren\u0027t simple mmm right the upper layers doing all the work right yeah I wondered if we needed a second XIV space for control plane messengers or something like that but yeah sequence ID would read the same the second X ad space would get ugly fast and yeah pinion but yes away were I don\u0027t know I\u0027m just brainstorming so let me ask a higher-level question how should we proceed with his conversations and should we add some of these ideas to the v2 draft should I write a separate draft should should Dave and I write a draft about what how do I take this forward do we need do we need more design conversation no Spencer Dawkins suggested a design phone call outside of the sure that we\u0027re meeting schedule I mean that works for me I guess um you know I the answer to any such question is of course send a draft but you know it\u0027s how you get to to authoring that first version of the draft if you don\u0027t think you have enough information discussion works great I think um I I\u0027d be willing to join in I have some pointed opinions here but it\u0027s up to you okay one issue now is the - 0 of version 2 is just expired and so you have the choice of waiting possibly a long time to have a more complete draft or just so refreshing this and have it a different conversation oh well I think having that draft be present on the data tracker is pretty important so I\u0027m just going to refresh that for now I would encourage you not to worry one bit about the status of the draft in terms of being expired or active the draft is out there the the IETF website will continue to publish it whether it\u0027s expired or not and it is anything new to say there\u0027s no reason to refresh it\u0027s it\u0027s hard to find that\u0027s that so the people in this room and on the on the phone no no from what you say but other people who are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:25",
    "text": "watching this process from somewhat more distant perspective might alright see the missing draft and go oh they\u0027re not working on that anymore well in that case I\u0027d encourage you to add some useful new content and refresh it if you feel that way ok I mean it for instance if you\u0027re going to discuss crediting in a separate draft I would slice it out of the other draft like a reference well my personal feeling is that we need to address all this and be to one of the questions I came into this sock with was this is something we think is something we need to fix and be to do we agree that this is something v2s needs to address I think I\u0027m seeing nodding so I would like to I would whatever happens I think I would like to address it in that draft so okay no we have to move on so on yeah we are at our one hour point relinquish the wand of unseen we have an hour and one half left until 12:00 noon or timings and Dave Novak silence watch out for the battery door yeah am I in the box stand in the orange box speak into the microphone okay I had a problem at the airport because I was too tall the automated face tracker oh yeah I kept on going down like this I got upset so delegation of state IDs well I thought I\u0027d do with these slides as I thought I would go over the problem and not go over the the document so I came up with a standard format I was bored on the plane the the first problem we talked about is offline files and the use case that we actually have is we were in testing and development and we we we also push our our files to the cloud and our QA was coming to a screaming because every time they tried to look at a file through the Mac file browser it downloaded the file from the cloud and they said I don\u0027t want to do this what\u0027s causing us and the thing that was causing this is the Mac file browser looks at like I think the first 64k of the file and says this tries to give a preview of the file in the browser when you hover over it and we looked at the sequence of opps and we saw a an open and we said why are we sending yell when will the opens being sent because the file browser wants to open it and that led to a read request that yes the datastore and you know we just don\u0027t want that so we looked at what SMB was doing and it was looking at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:27",
    "text": "the offline bit and saying if the file is offline don\u0027t download it don\u0027t open it for this file browser and we\u0027re looking at the cost the cost is dollars even investing in QA testing we have to get a copy from the remote store and most likely we\u0027re just going to either throw that copy away or we turn it back to the object store which is more cost I go fast by the way slow me down if you need to ask questions yeah well I\u0027m good I\u0027m about through a third of my slides and take five minutes that\u0027s all right yeah the solution is we want to introduce a new attribute called the offline bit and that\u0027s going to simply when the client does a get adder the initial sequence it\u0027s going to see it\u0027s going to ask to say do you support the off do you have the offline bit if it does have the offline that we send it back the client will not open the file and so you know here\u0027s where I ID v8 from the slides I was thinking on the introduction all of all of the work I\u0027m showing is driven by the fact that we have someone in QA or we have some director who\u0027ll come to us and say why do you keep on sending get X right and so we\u0027re trying to reduce get adders we\u0027re trying to reduce you know these these performance and we\u0027re trying to increase performance by reducing get adders and here\u0027s the case where a get adder is actually good it tells you hey don\u0027t bother reading the file well you can still open the file if you want to yes but the point is is to remake that be an explicit calculation a hint to say this is gonna be expensive yeah we want to do it yes yes exactly and then you know another one we did was we used to have an open and a layout get being the same compound and we broke occasions where we\u0027ll break that because we want the the layout get is expensive we only want the client to do that open you know when they explicitly have to read the file proxying of times so I\u0027m another one we saw was we are our CEO has a simple use case he\u0027s got 40,000 files from presentations from his past companies to now he unties them across the network and he uses that as a quick performance goal alright it\u0027s not very scientific he has the new presentation things change out but it\u0027s the very simple right workload and he uses it to break break me all the time so we we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:28",
    "text": "have another besides the simple metadata server we actually have another gateway for d3 and for SMB and it allows our our storage device to only speak nfsv4 to and when we want to allow access to legacy clients we have data portal that speaks and if sp3 and it speaks that SMB and so as the client connects it\u0027s translated to we have a file cache it that keeps the v4 file open and allows the client to connect through and one of the things we found what was happening is that the data portal would essentially expand to get out a request from the client and spam storage device and we were wondering why this was occurring and we were looking at the the get adders and we were thinking we\u0027ll wait why are we sending get at us we\u0027re sending NFS v3 rights they have WCC that should be supplying information to the to the proxy cache and I spoke to the Linux client in Finland reason well we can\u0027t trust that I said well why can\u0027t you trust that he goes well because um the DES is not authoritative on is not the one that\u0027s authoritative on the time and so and we looked at the test the internal test I just described and it was 40k files and we saw 72k get a ders right and we want to reduce those and so I said well what do we have to do to make the DSO thorat ativ on the right we cache consistency and the reply was we had to delegate not only the size but the proxying of the times okay so we we we put together a 4.2 implementation that allowed the the metadata server that tell the proxy it is now authoritative on the the a time in the M time and could calculate the C type doesn\u0027t that require a clustered relationship between all the DS\u0027s no well you would think it does we don\u0027t have that social clustered relationship huh all right so the things we had to put in place is we had to we had to say that the they have to be in time sync okay well that\u0027s not a hard one to make because when you have Kerberos you have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:29",
    "text": "to make the same really plus or minus five minutes but okay yeah right well we were actually looking we had a so he were using everything worse than VMware yeah you were know they\u0027re very well synchronize no they\u0027re not oh okay we were noticing a two-second real time drop when we had a very heavily but even if at times even if you have a time sync you might be writing to stripe a like crazy and stripe B is sitting there idle so the yeses have a very different view of the world yes they do and um you know when I was doing the slides yesterday that came to me with we do I don\u0027t have it inside deck I haven\u0027t to require I said to Mike yesterday in the email so what we have to do is the cluster has to mean that the metadata server has to maintain a view of what each data store has the server doesn\u0027t know the rights are happening at all agree well the metadata server knows the rights are happening when the client gets in together yeah it says key give me the size and give me a time ah at that point the metadata server doesn\u0027t get added to the data store okay why are you asking me the attributes oh you must have been doing all right yes and if he doesn\u0027t ask we don\u0027t care hmm okay so when when when we do such a proxy then then the the the metadata server doesn\u0027t bother asking the client will the metadata server assumes the client that owns it it\u0027s not going to ask because it knows the information and it\u0027s finally when what so we have to allow callback so that the metadata server can get the information for another client when the client that owns the delegation is done with the delegation it has to do a set adder to set that information back and by the way it has to have a new attribute to do that so that it can say this is the field on the authoritative floor and I\u0027m giving the answer versus you\u0027re trying to do an explicit setting of those attribute fields as you might do with ATAR and on the test workload we saw three dead adders instead of 72,000 as you can imagine that was a significant savings oh wait I was just there what did I miss let\u0027s skip anything I\u0027m sorry I got lost mm-hmm I think we\u0027re good so the the final one we were looking at is we noticed that when you have an open file and open files to find this is what I always have to explain to my QA people "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:30",
    "text": "into marking an open file that that someone considers open Zac actually means you either have an open or a delegation state ID so it\u0027s very confusing when you see the the open and then you see it closed and you tell them though the file still open they said I saw closed and you have to get you have to hammer in the fact it\u0027s not that the file that it\u0027s not the opening closed that mean the file is open it\u0027s the presence of the state IDs and then the where you see this a lot where you able to explain it is when you you have the Lazy return model for layouts when the ODF count where the ODS is the open delegation state ID count goes to 0 the layout is in is implicitly returned by the client well if you returned most of the delegation states you have to maintain an extra state which can be costly when you have a million files open the client also has to send a close too closely to get rid of the open state ID which also means you\u0027re going to see another get a derp and get others evil small costs but they add up so the solution is that when the client asks for an open it can set a flag saying I either want the open or the Delic but not both the MDS will try to return only one it might return both because it might be an old MDS and the other complication is that the MDS has to determine the correct state ID and the compound that says sequence put a face open get a tour layout get the layout get is assigned to what the current state ID and it a typical implementation would only be considering the open state ID so it has to be able to track that those were the three items we\u0027ve got in the draft version zero was published I have three reviews I\u0027m going in reverse order so I\u0027ve gotten Mike\u0027s review done I\u0027m in the middle of chalks than I have Dave\u0027s and I want the next draft version to be an official working group item questions comments give three interests interesting features here but whoever the question I want you to consider is how many drafts are they they really belong in one you know that my reply is there they\u0027re pretty much 90% of the document is boilerplate and I struggle with you know so when a Chuck\u0027s comments was your abstract should be the last line and I\u0027m that\u0027s even too terse "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:31",
    "text": "for me and I\u0027m a teacher so I want to keep them as one because it\u0027s there they all are related and they deal with open and delegation stay tight procedurally I think it\u0027s okay for you to choose however many drafts you feel is appropriate if they\u0027re related in your mind that\u0027s okay yeah they are working group may still choose to reject or pick apart you know these things but that\u0027s part of the course of the working group yes work so either is acceptable I think that\u0027s a personal opinion yeah I\u0027m looking at trucks name and yeah I think it would be good to have a you know it\u0027s del STI D right now which is it makes it seem like it\u0027s only about right a certain topic but if there\u0027s more hiding under there maybe it\u0027s a small set of extensions for ya attributes and state IDs or the yeah the off open deleg proxy time yeah right right in that case I\u0027m done and I did not drop the battery case yeah I held on to it dearly okay thank you I sent the drafts to our chairs and area director in hopes that they have the password to upload it but I unfortunately don\u0027t have it so I\u0027m going to have to do this by the old-fashioned way that requires finding an open USB port I guess I can unplug this Mouse yeah there\u0027s the blue sheet of the front corner desk well if you make up names and you get a big figure turn on anyone here we\u0027ve been known by any other name it\u0027s Spencer yeah I was just gonna say if we\u0027re talking about the email that we sent we have to fax to the mailing list I may be able to upload those that would be great I\u0027m having a heck of a time literally putting my USB stick into the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:31",
    "text": "USB port of this darn flap top it won\u0027t go I\u0027ll be back Dave Dave why this this thing literally won\u0027t go in it starts and then it kind of like let me just jam the sucker as hard as I can it\u0027s a standard that wasn\u0027t done right removable device detected okay all right Dave which one do you want first I guess we\u0027re talking ms/ms ns yeah there you are right okay so I\u0027m going to talking about some stuff that\u0027s farther longer than the other stuff so we\u0027re having to wrap up a few things and this is what I\u0027m going to talk about so I\u0027m talking about number there are three drafts involved for the that Bob Moses both the multi server namespace features of anapests before that\u0027s zero and one sort of to this work in theory Wow I did unplug the mouse because I have the but this there\u0027s this little stick over here is the is the receiver for the no that\u0027s wrong something\u0027s happening yeah no this is all right you don\u0027t let\u0027s Dave all I\u0027ll Drive okay sure okay so said we all right that do you click no I didn\u0027t I swear it all right so he had this bug servers name we\u0027ve been plagued with problems you know I was I did you know did this these chapters in in all these all these RFC\u0027s and somehow I screwed up all of them sorry about that anyway work has been gone to address these first of all was RFC 7931 which became to propose standard in 2016 and the three that I\u0027m talking about now we\u0027re working on finishing up which is migration issues the update friend bees from for minor version zero and the update from minor version one and I think all those are coming along pretty well so let\u0027s go in the next one okay well okay apparently if I press the down arrow again and clicked I get to the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:32",
    "text": "areas that provide for is trunk and detection all right which that is if you have two IP address you want to make sure you want to turn whether connected to the same server and that has so far you RFC 7931 and RFC 50cc one been dealt with then we have in addition to trunk and protection we need trunking discovery that is you given that you\u0027re connected to one you have one connection to the server how do you find the other ones trunk induction says well if you had one you\u0027d be able to sail seaville is a real one but trunk and discovery is something else and we need that for both NFC 4.0 and for B 4.1 we also need transparent stake migration because when you have a filesystem migrate from one server to another you have to have the ability to trend easily have the client continue to access the files that he was accessing them without the possibility than the losing state or being opened by someone else so that has been defined for reported out but his need for before that one and also all the reward we\u0027ve only now become aware of it we have to deal with the possibility of multiple connection types Dave just to interrupt for a moment M has the working group decided that it\u0027s appropriate to go back and update for dotto and for that one at this time or is that a proposal to do so I guess I don\u0027t know whether we\u0027re doing this we\u0027ve made these maybe we made these working group documents so I guess that\u0027s it has decided okay well alright nobody notices I move move that bla bla bla and nobody seconded but okay well we can discuss later but it strikes me odd that we would go back in time and update for tato I\u0027m not sure there would be a whole lot of adoption of it but we should have that discussion in the working group perhaps sure well we had that Sweden skidded 7931 you know that was we the same that same issue and I think we had to follow through all right any way we can all right we\u0027ll go on to the next slide and we\u0027ll discuss all right first we\u0027ll discuss these are the various documents and standards Soviet so we said in RFC we 35 30 we start out with no support for trucking trunking in corn dog RFC 35 30 is a problem it\u0027s not a feature and is a problem it\u0027s Warren sir Darkly about what might happen if you have most of multiple connections that goes to some effort to prevent that from being determined anyway RFC 3261 did provide trunking detection but for some reason we thought we didn\u0027t think about the problem of trunking discovery and seven artists RFC 75 30 that was an opportunity we have to address trucking but we do it then and we finally did it in RFC 7931 we did but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:32",
    "text": "again just as with RFC physicists to see one we did not address trunking discovery however we have discuss when you decided I think I\u0027ve decided Chuck\u0027s decided that I hope the working group has decided to provide trunking discovery for dotto and before that one and it\u0027s easy since it\u0027s the same for both protocols and there\u0027s no XDR change now transparent state migration has had different different thing we\u0027ve we RFC 70 70 75 30 had it attempted to have transparent state migration but it was messed up and then RFC 7931 fixed it and then we for some reason did not do this right in RFC fifty sixty one and so now we need to provide transparent state migration in before that one now for multiple connection types before no not actually do not mention the existence of multiple connection types but it was intended that before that I was support multiple connection types in our in particularly our piece of arguments but for v3 before that I\u0027ll record at one and so it means to see something about that in the in the multi server namespace case and also before the other the the correspondent update for for minor version one will also have to clarify and with that alright so that\u0027s the end that\u0027s that\u0027s life all right now draft IFT fnf is before migration issues has been gone for a very long time it\u0027s been like three years yeah at least all right but it\u0027s somebody making for southern making progress and I think it\u0027s getting fairly near and dresses a lot of stuff there\u0027s a migration shrunken detection and discovery and multiple connection types and it deals with that the decision was to do like in this case we didn\u0027t want to have separate documents for reported oh and reported one because the problems are so similar and solutions are mostly similar so we just wound up with document you start out of describing important doubt then we transitioned it to describing both and we\u0027re completing on that basis next slide okay this material in b14 I thought that had has had a lot of review it disguised trunking discovery transparent state migration now the discussion of transparent migration sort of describes what has been done in 7931 and the one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:33",
    "text": "for before dot one describes what will be done so they\u0027re different it\u0027s in pretty good chip shape we have no pending issues and I recently published - 15 which includes the handling of multiple connection types and also another thing which people should look at is the discussion of possible extensions to be 4.2 I think originally there was some discussion I think truck originally started it about some extensions to have you have to have you have information about the capacities of verus of your connections I think that was modeled on something in SMB anyway the original target date multi-channel yep the original target date has gone has gone by I was really supposed to done by by June but anyway I think I sent the working group a copy of my mails to mail to the Spencer\u0027s and I\u0027m thinking that we should get it\u0027s done by it by August you start 15 the current or is that the next upcoming version - 15 is current current but it it has been out all that long so yeah reviewing it had sound review of what\u0027s in 14 and - 15 so your expectation is that the working group will review - 15 and determine whether it\u0027s ready for well that was until this discussion that rich Macklin started and will go out see the next slide okay all right jumping ahead so jumping ahead yes please continue okay sure next slide then right so we do want to get to Google welc soon okay material at 14 the review should already have occurred and if it hasn\u0027t let\u0027s see that gets done changes 15 have been out for a month and this still might need some further review now I expect that I expect that to be 16 now 16 will have materia about the RC 1 FS issue which is discussed in the next one that was brought up by Rick Macklin and don\u0027t know exactly what to do about it but I\u0027ve been working on addressing it I have a version of 16 that I could review but thanks the guy on the mail from Rick said well gee if I know that that VMware addressed this and led to think maybe I wouldn\u0027t brought this up I still think it does have to be brought up but I think the burner has to discuss that but it will be a 16 out pretty soon and so I I won\u0027t want comments on 15 by within about three weeks from now and then based on the comments I\u0027ll produce 16 I assume that we\u0027ll have the stuff about 1 FS but if people decide that we does need it I can take that out and I can also add any other comments that I receive about 15 in the meantime that will be I\u0027m assuming that through 16 will be the basis for GG LC "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:36",
    "text": "all right so Rick Matthew Lee just described this by actually running and looking at the what VMware was doing VMware does reclaim complete with our C 1 FS set to true although Falls is what\u0027s supposed to be and Rick points out that the treatment is not as explicit as it should be about what the purpose of reclaimed complete with when FS set to true is and so one one thing that might do we might do is clarify that and may servers work with current being where the client behavior and I\u0027d like to if we do fix the spec also allow interoperability with the existing clients so anyway I\u0027ve been dancing around that and I think that\u0027s not an issue 4-16 of migration issues because my des 60 of migration issues says only that we need to address this later I\u0027ll talk about MV one where we\u0027re which is much I\u0027m working it\u0027s still working we\u0027re also working on anyway my I think migration issues will probably meet I say here will meet but I I said working group hasn\u0027t designed that but we have to decide what although I\u0027m doing migration issues about that rather than want to address that that issue that\u0027s going alright now unlike the others other specs the goal for this the milestone goal for this is get to working group last called rather than final vacuuming because we don\u0027t know for sure whether they\u0027re gonna produce the final thing we could produced an information document which we could submit for publication but it isn\u0027t clear it\u0027s worth doing that and the working group needs to decide and I\u0027ve I\u0027ve gone both ways on this the pros are this explains the over reasons for these changes in a way that\u0027s RFC 7931 and the immaterial individual the individual working standards track documents don\u0027t it also contains some material about possible before two extensions on the other hand what we haven\u0027t published such documents in the past it\u0027s a lot of work and it\u0027s not clear who would read it once it is published anyway that\u0027s the we have to make a decision about that at some point and I\u0027m not sure exactly how they\u0027ll do that and that you\u0027re rather that\u0027s the working group to decide or whether the the authors and an editor will decide but we have to make a decision about that sometime and I think after we should probably decide about what will go forward that after wgl see yep david brock been involved in a related situation another working group that i don\u0027t want to talk about but let me see "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:36",
    "text": "if i can extract some useful of us i think the crucial question is almost down the bottom of slide does this does the contents of this draft so do the Conesus draft have archival value over and above the other RFC\u0027s published will they help someone who is trying to implement the RFC 7931 and it looks like an RFC to be on trunking want to read this doc to figure out how to get implementation right i don\u0027t think so but I don\u0027t know if I can put myself in the mind of that person so maybe the working group decision will focus discussion will focus on that issue I think that\u0027s the question to the working group will this doc have archival value to implementers in the future once the working group has a position on that then the higher level sausage-making can move from there Spencer is familiar with the situation that I\u0027m bleep Lehrer furring to and don\u0027t want to discuss and we\u0027ll understand the sausage-making reference all right okay well I don\u0027t want to know about sausage-making no one does no and and and you really don\u0027t want no about this stuff so I just summarized we would it\u0027s not necessarily the working group that would make this decision it would be a discussion with IETF historians or um how do we make the decision ah let\u0027s back off from let\u0027s back off from the decision I believe that there are two to sit there at least two decisions here decision one is is the working group needs to come to rough consensus on archival value or lack thereof in this talk that it\u0027s absolutely working decision that is owned by the people in this room online and on the mailing list is this document useful to publish does it have value to future implementers and I\u0027m just using implementers it might be broader but that decision is organization once written group has a rough consensus decision on that then the high-level sausage-making starts to figure out whether that decision leads to publications of an art as an RFC or not but let\u0027s get the decisions in the right order and the working group should focus on the technical question of archival value of this document okay perfect yeah and that\u0027ll also bear on whether it\u0027s an informational RFC or standards track uh it\u0027s based on what based on what I think I understand from this slide informational is the only plausible status this does not I don\u0027t see anything up here that suggests hammers track did I miss something apparently "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:39",
    "text": "not alright thanks thanks right now we\u0027re back to stand this track yes there but no no the hoops did Oklahoma that\u0027s out of order way out of order sorry how am i doing I\u0027ve no kin time right yes it is 11:05 we have 55 minutes remaining okay right is this the the deck you want to start on didn\u0027t know that I want to go back to the other deck oh you want a second half of the other day second half of the other day right this one right where we\u0027re right there yeah right well let\u0027s say yeah let\u0027s see I think we need back a couple of slides okay trunky let\u0027s go okay trunking update all right yes trunking update sure this is a standard track document addressing the remaining issues for minor version zero and it fulfills the needs identified in the informational doc and so it\u0027s parallel to the correspondent mb1 msn and it\u0027s update with the standards track document for monitoring one much of the contents of of everyone and msn s update was addressed by RFC 7931 because it\u0027s for some reason we did because i think at that point people were more disturbed and before that more back and before to though and we needed to get we needed to address the issues with a state micro with transparent state migration in before the law and somehow we\u0027re thought well gee before that one will be easy we\u0027re wrong anyway it has the neatest changes it adds trunking discovery it had trunking drunken detection is already there got that in RFC 1738 Desha one which is coming very soon I just heard a truck from Chuck that\u0027s had further material on most connection types yes not a question well more pre-emptive move to the microphone to fill in any details but I just want to say if you think a one which you\u0027ve seen a preview of it\u0027s ready for us to move on to last call we can request that now I I\u0027m comfortable that I think it is ok then I\u0027ll well you have to submit it first and then request last call well it just expired so I will when I submit the next when I submit the one I will ask depends urges to promote it great ok all right next slide which may "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:44",
    "text": "well further work well we need working group discussion of material and 0 0 which I think has been discussed and the work the sim since i I\u0027m the only one who\u0027s Chuck and I have the only one who seems 0 what other people have to see it and commented on I said submission of all one is expected soon now change that to very very soon like next 20 minutes or something like that today or tomorrow today or tomorrow anyway and we do have to go through a workgroup last call and Chuck is gonna request that so therefore the target day of 11 2018 looks doable I think probably it\u0027ll be earlier than that so that deal I think that that document we\u0027re going on with next slide I\u0027m not sure I totally understand it says further work needed and then last call so I mean last call would end the work right well when it for further work on the further work for discussion is needed well the the subject that lie another slide says for the work needed so I\u0027m just wondering what that work actually is yes I mean when I note this I wasn\u0027t aware that check was quite as far along as you said so they are the authors believe that this is ready for working group last call in the old one version that is that one I\u0027m taking away I think I think we agree it is good yes good think it\u0027s ready whoa I just want to write something down something back a little here but actually it is ready Yeah right yeah I mean we might just decide the group might decide looking at it no this is not ready but I think oh yeah there is no crisis going for just forget this slide we\u0027re done it never existed it didn\u0027t happen okay forget it under the next slot and the next next next time oh I thought I am on the next item you just summarized that with yeah right okay okay take it to the list got it yeah right all right now there\u0027s a corresponding document which is Lunas quest far along its that addresses the report that one needs that has two parallel rather than just depending on 7931 it has two parallel that work and actually there was a lot of things about how you deal with PMF as a few other things anyway it was like it was that document is we got and it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s longer it\u0027s about it\u0027s about 60 or 70 pages anyway it adds trunking discovery just as the versus ear does shrunken detection was already present in fifty sixty one it\u0027s transparent state migration and the own one which has been out recently as further it hasn\u0027t been out that long isn\u0027t further material on multiple connection types alright next slide so we do need some working group discussion of that I think most of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:45",
    "text": "this 0-0 has been out a while and we should have had the discussion of that but there have been changes in number one that\u0027s been out about a month and we haven\u0027t seen much discussion of it maybe we need to let that sit and proton given that that one has a longer target date which at blue which is March 2019 this time for product implementations to be done and if people do prototypes and find problems then now is the time to report that views gonna take place on the working group may Lulu listen I urge people to continue to look at the documents and and tell me if I didn\u0027t tell us about issues and if people think a conference call will be helpful you can schedule that all right now the target for this document is is final document submission by March 2019 which implies that you for that to make to make that prep to have to have working with last call by January see everyone is out ready to be reviewed and it could be the WGAL C candidate but there might be a need for wo2 if we decide that there are some issues with RCA one FS and that will be an they\u0027ll be that discussion will follow the discussion I think I really want to hear about what McGrath Rick Mac who thinks about what we need to include that but I\u0027ve done the work and I could have an IO to out if we decide that we that needs to be done and if we ever need we need version B on o2 and would have to just today but I don\u0027t think we will have to I think we will get this out and done by March 2000 are we aware of any other servers that have a problem with the RCA 1 FS implementation or could use additional guidance on how to do it right well Rick just had the one server and it was kind of a down level version of that service no it\u0027s the quiet oh I thought the server was returning a strange value and the client was doing something you know strange your server is ignoring the RCA one that best field and it looks like the Linux server does that too so clarification sounds warranted for more than one server at least two let\u0027s tear those implementations to an interoperable goal yes good that\u0027s that\u0027s my my understanding based on a quick browse of the epitomy list this morning there was a well she wasn\u0027t say that he was ignoring he was basically looking at it saying oh because there is no could be no migration here I can just ignore this which is slightly different okay and I think okay zero draft zero to it that I\u0027m working on I sort of address it in that light okay all right I think that\u0027s it for that for that slide "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:48",
    "text": "all right given that I think this is it that at ITF 99 we\u0027ve decided on some milestones now I have two years gone by and we have to look at where they are so that\u0027s what the purpose of this talk now the first two slides that I knew it would do that yes I did I didn\u0027t want to write very small anyway so my group we\u0027ve been talking about a lot of those in the previous thing migration issues as I said it\u0027s an information document probably and wgl C is the goal and that\u0027s expected by August I hope and nvme for PMF s is not very far along you know there\u0027s there\u0027s another slide where all talk I\u0027ll go through this this table and then we\u0027ll talk about the problem about the problem children all right now before dunno trunk and discovery chuck is doing that he I\u0027m odd car the duke oh he\u0027s the editor and we see that seems to on track or better now there turns out the other document before to one document we have this part of two goals and we retain them as two goals they\u0027re both on track and the movies will be addressed by one document and we\u0027re hoping probably that will be out five March 2019 that\u0027s the end of that slide now we go to see and private data that\u0027s also plan to be an informational I think that\u0027s on track but that\u0027s still a an ID and I think we need a working group document probably at least by by the end this year so we have an opportunity now to that the three of us mister choppy mr. Novik and myself are in the same room to understand what mr. talipes objections to us moving forward with that document are well I didn\u0027t say I had objections I felt it was important that it be documented yes and then when we wanted to move forward to publish it as an RFC an informational one you said that you were not comfortable back I did think so I don\u0027t think I did but let\u0027s talk okay in my memory was that he was not comfortable would be being standards track and I don\u0027t have a problem oh I don\u0027t think anybody wants it to be standards track well if you don\u0027t want it to be a standard strike then I don\u0027t care it\u0027s your document yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s informational yeah okay well put it this way if the if the guy on the other end can ignore it yes then it\u0027s informational right he can he can use it or not use it yes absolutely it\u0027s meant to be completely transparent if the other end doesn\u0027t sits out-of-band of the yes RPC RDMA protocol but nonetheless possibly contain useful information if if you are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:50",
    "text": "comfortable with me proceeding with publication as an informational RFC I will do that well let\u0027s talk about it because I\u0027m not sure what your original concern might have been I don\u0027t think I had one although I was concerned that the private data was defining a blob of network transmitted data that was not sufficiently clarified with respect to its requirement the RFC already made protocol right so if the diff the relationship between the two is properly defined informational it\u0027s fine by me okay so then it comes down to some technical conversations about the mechanisms defined in that document yeah I am curious what they are I haven\u0027t looked at this document sometimes so um I should refresh my thinking on it but while we\u0027re here let\u0027s talk okay yeah and also right we let\u0027s make sure that because that that is going to be promoted from being an ID to a working group document so it\u0027s clear yeah we need to get get that clear on that all in the course of things okay okay sure now there\u0027s a lot of a lot of interest at one time in the item a layout for through PN FS and that\u0027s also we don\u0027t know where that is the target is target is is September 2019 and it doesn\u0027t I\u0027ll have some slides about that that\u0027s also a problem child now chucks just talk about some stuff for our PCOR in the version - and that has a target date for final submission of December 2019 I think it\u0027s on track but chunks brought out some issues we have some issues that do have to be addressed and I think we need that to be a working group docket I said by here by three by March but I think which would be it probably would be Debbie and we\u0027re gonna document early so now let\u0027s move on to two things where we don\u0027t know where they are yeah I think March of 2019 is I mean that\u0027s nine months away eight months away that seems like a long time to bake before the working group starts to think about it well okay it\u0027s not it\u0027s it\u0027s not prohibited became this earlier than that right okay I I just want to make sure that I have room in case bad things have all right backing up to the previous one is Christophe currently working on that document I don\u0027t know we are not able to ascertain that yeah yeah he\u0027s been doing other things these days I mean it\u0027s fine for it to sit for a little bit if everybody\u0027s busy I\u0027m just curious if it\u0027s moving forward will dave has some slides and we\u0027ll get into that good all right also we have the ability to add milestones and I think we\u0027ve been working with a a two year window so a two year window from now is August 2020 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:50",
    "text": "are the documents that that potentially have milestones and some of the people here or listening might have these documents we need an owner some sort of reasonable target date you have some sort of confidence and I think Spencer\u0027s has been cleared that he\u0027s not gonna ask for your signature and blood or anything but there has to be working group in interest so some things that we thought about his integrity management measurement Chuck is presented about other possible descendants of set sec ylabel extensions or descendants or a singular singular or plural of Tom\u0027s Dell state ID also another possibilities that I thought about is flexible files v2 if if you have interested in that in pursuing that yeah actually I do I and I I have a problem with the Flex false v2 in the sense that I have one small change I\u0027d like to get in but I think it\u0027s just heavy-handed the way we hit we have to rev the base to class to have a new layout type in order to to do a change I can\u0027t think of another way to your minor version on a layout type I think you just need a new number but I think you don\u0027t have to rewrite the document say this document you can say layout type B is the same as layout out a except for these differences if you if you do that I think you can do that that\u0027s right yeah yes you know you do need a new number I know we need a new number I just don\u0027t want to do a 40-page document for a one-line change so I can convince you you don\u0027t have to do with that but you don\u0027t do a 10-bit document for what line change and I can change that yeah so I can commit to a v2 within the year okay it is a good point that it\u0027s very difficult to update a layout we have a very heavy-handed way to update a layout right so if we\u0027re changing the structure of the layout on the wire or what requires the stuff create the pro to update the layout protocol type it\u0027s pretty heavy again right Tom but I think the the very first three layouts were very not gonna change and we\u0027re you know very cast and stone is this is we\u0027re getting trying to get a little bit more flexible juice but we\u0027re finding that we want to be able to change them yeah alright let\u0027s go on now nvme for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:54",
    "text": "PMF s so the current status there is the ideas expired and we have seen no progress beyond what was discussed in ayodhya tip 2 tonight in the ietf 99 the current tired tarde target date has gone by now in considering progress well I think Chuck isn\u0027t one who\u0027s actually talked to Christophe and crystal does say he\u0027s interested in working this but I think Chuck tried to get a data of Christophe was unable to make Chuck would tell me Rick you know sir has anything any interesting coloured ahead of that or not really just said that he wasn\u0027t able to give me a date at this time okay but he does intend to move forward with the document okay so what\u0027s neat is well I think you David you you had discussion with Christophe about what wasn\u0027t even in this document that the ITA @i f 99 and I think Chuck\u0027s memory of this and mine are somewhat different I thought think you just you decided that a fair amount of work was required and I think Chuck remembered that it was more smaller and he was sort of wondering why Christophe didn\u0027t do it given what they thought only a small amount was needed don\u0027t we were waiting for a citation or something like that there was some relevance to the I scuzzy layout right up to the block layout and some discussion of why it required a new layout references to the I don\u0027t I don\u0027t recall but we are creating a new layout here I thought that what this document was doing is describing how to use it the block existing block P NFS layouts for nvme devices well my memory are there there was an issue with the with reference and David seemed to say well gee well you\u0027re never gonna get this the perfect document is you just might as well just describe this yourself in this document and so I conclude that that was maybe too much work for Christoph not too much work just something that he is to set aside okay so in any case when you implement the changes that were discussed at IIT f99 which means we have to decide what those were and get to a working group document and then have working review and discussion if nobody\u0027s voice is going in long very if nobody\u0027s driving it the best we can do is just leave it you know as a TBD item yeah I think that\u0027s okay so when they\u0027re saying is that there\u0027s no current momentum to drive this but it\u0027s still of interest to some people yes it is it\u0027s it\u0027s long expired there is someone who is going to drive it eventually but doesn\u0027t have time right at the moment so I think my my only question about this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:56",
    "text": "is whether it should remain on a milestone list or not okay I\u0027m sure it\u0027s going to be done at some point it\u0027s just I\u0027m not sure we can depend at this moment on when but sometimes it says that time gets on I don\u0027t know whether that\u0027s the name of them you know at some point maybe just not worth I don\u0027t know why that at that time me anyway all right let\u0027s go into this one so we could remove it from the whilst on the list or just leave it on the list with the TBD date I don\u0027t know if we would want to do that but question marks I don\u0027t know if we have question marks or TBD in there but anyway I think it\u0027s laudable that you want to keep the milestones up to date but you know it I think it\u0027s okay that it just sort of sits there idly for a period of time okay so maybe that\u0027s the third pod just leave it on the list but the data has and everyone it\u0027s obvious to everyone that is it\u0027s not we\u0027ve gone years without updating the milestones in the past so that\u0027s anything would be an improvement I could put a little winky by it all right there you go so well other things we might do is well maybe we need a more limited document maybe they I\u0027m right about what David suggested and maybe we want something that\u0027s more like an informational document that just sort of gives people some some are limited document there\u0027s not maybe not Stan distract it just give them their instruction to how you might use this maybe it\u0027s not maybe we won\u0027t get as much as what we won but we that\u0027s a little one way to Excel it product practice or it\u0027s possible of self progress by giving Kristoff some some help if there\u0027s anyone is there anyone out there who might provide that help I offered a year ago and he turned me down so I think he doesn\u0027t want help again I don\u0027t think it\u0027s an issue of help I think he just has to fill in some details that only he can fill in and then and then move it along to okay last call well alright I guess that\u0027s love of it let\u0027s still go on that\u0027s there okay he\u0027s not here to defend himself though yeah well he\u0027s not being attacked we\u0027re just saying I don\u0027t say tell us something maybe okay well I think it\u0027s a trackable item I mean I think it\u0027s a worthwhile item should it ever come to completion so it\u0027s trackable I whether it\u0027s active or not is not totally under our control as I in the minutes I just captured seeking momentum right somebody gets out and pushes that be great yes okay uh yes okay yes all right now the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:58",
    "text": "the the our demand lab is in there\u0027s there\u0027s no active document there\u0027s been some prototype working I never will visit there was an active documents just fallen at the archive that\u0027s right it\u0027s not see it\u0027s expired yes so who did you mention to me someone who did prototyping work in on some issues but I can\u0027t remember that was Steve buying as goodbye Oracle all right so one of the things is brought this racism editions issues and I don\u0027t know whether they were ever communicated to Christophe and he\u0027s addressed he\u0027s aware of them anyway he\u0027s still interested in working in this area and I think there are lots of people are interested in having this done and we now have this target date of September 2019 and I think we now need to consider how realistic that they did is or even was and given that Christophe has some work that on the on the on the nvme lay out that he\u0027s not gay - there\u0027s a question of well how much of the time is gonna have do this so anyway well I think that we\u0027re perplexed on this one as well so we need to consider it how possible the target the target date whether the target date is now I think it\u0027s like September 2019 you know there\u0027s a lot of time but given I don\u0027t know how you know I don\u0027t know how much this is a look this is a big project it\u0027s a question of who\u0027s doing the work at this point whether we have whether we have any confidence in the target date right right we have a known issue somebody needs to dig down on the issue and and and express it in a way that the author\u0027s can document or correct the protocol or whatever okay since there is Steve because Steve Steve still interested in this could he provide the becoming Steve has posted commentary to the lists okay and I just thought responded to it I don\u0027t think that it resulted in any changes to the draft so at this point I don\u0027t believe Steve is funded to continue work on it he\u0027s certainly interested though okay I mean I feel the the loud the RT me Leon has good value very good about right and so if there are issues it would be very desirable for somebody to you know track them down and either express them or actually write a proposal if it\u0027s not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:01",
    "text": "Steve well I just have to figure out who might be but it I mean the working group is a volunteer organization so if nobody\u0027s around jumping up and down it\u0027s probably not gonna happen right away again I think there\u0027s an issue of Christoph is still interested in doing the work it just as opportunity is not arising for him and I think that\u0027s probably true of Steve as well oh is this work Christoph was planned to do yes and so Steve found these issues and raised some questions they have two separate prototyping board Asian yeah this is another one the trek Specter crystal okay again mm-hmm fine well so be it okay so well again we have maybe we just we do the same thing for this one just leave it on the list is anybody going to Christoph\u0027s Alpine summit in September oh you seem Christoph\u0027s Alpine summit literally on the summit of an ALP they\u0027re gonna have a conference yes yeah second annual yeah they all survived I see yourself they did they hiked and hiked back well so it sounds like there are sounds like we do leave it unless yeah yeah I did take it off the list that\u0027s for sure we\u0027d leave it on the list with today we have given that were don\u0027t believe give it even though nobody believes in the state I don\u0027t believe in mistake that\u0027s right we can replace the day with TBD but okay now right I guess is one more slide well you know this we raised this with the other conditional authors maybe Christos doesn\u0027t want want this but maybe that\u0027s not maybe that isn\u0027t despised so does the working group ahead this Christophe has veto power of this ken\u0027s be done by someone else if there is someone else to do wants to do it I think the usual way of doing that is for someone else to step up and offer their own draft okay and well of course anyone is free to prototype what\u0027s already in the draft is expired it\u0027s also the case that given that this is a working group draft correct no still individual personal draft okay which case what probably the what what Chuck described I was going to say is that if you have a working draft which progress is not being made it is possible to add to or or replace the r-13 but the SIL initial draft then then what would need to happen to somebody write another an initial draft and they can take as much content so you know from the existing where as they like with with with with civil acknowledgement but you don\u0027t have to put the author of the draft which you pull on as an author a new one you just simply need me need need need to acknowledge their work in contributions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:05:01",
    "text": "sure so the question oh and for anybody missing your coin business person for anybody listening this recording that this is david black alright they are I guess we have to that that discussion because well this is important people and I hope someone does does is interested in working on this but I don\u0027t know who that might be so that\u0027s we are that\u0027s why this is another problem child project okay I think that\u0027s into this discussion slides do not advance one clicked this must be the last slide it is like okay actually I didn\u0027t know how to fix powerpoints that says slide and of all right well it\u0027s it\u0027s 11:35 we have we completed our stated agenda 25 minutes early we\u0027ve done a lot of discussion in between is there any other discussion of the topics that have just gone by or any new items from the Medeco is anybody got anything to add all right well Chuck Dave let\u0027s let\u0027s talk about the items that we said we would discuss while we\u0027re all in the room together and we can do that and otherwise I\u0027ll call the meeting to a close thank you pretty low I don\u0027t know if I\u0027m ever gonna get an idol a USB stick out of this laptop I have no idea why it\u0027s so tight I\u0027m serious it\u0027s impossible to get out good question or the stick "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:09:57",
    "text": "rich so I don\u0027t know I don\u0027t know if we can terminate the Medeco or not there\u0027s no actual control control for it look I think it\u0027ll just sort of continue Oh "
  }
]