[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:26",
    "text": "so all right hello everyone welcome to the first inaugural github integration of dueling working group meeting fresh out of the Charter phase this is the note well I\u0027m sure you\u0027ve seen this several times so far so note the usual things and note that well a quick overview of the agenda under spend I mean blue sheets are floating around somewhere so please fill them out once you get them we do need a jabber scribe so I\u0027m hopeful someone will raise their hands volunteer at least a jabber watcher so somebody who would be willing to go to the mic thank you about visual jabber notch there someone who would like to take minutes is there someone who would like math would like to take minutes thank you so review or revision or bashing of the agenda this is basically what we have discuss a couple I guess working group process things before we get started into the two documents that we have on plate the first one of which is a working group that dubbed the document another one is for Martin and is possibly up for adoption as well so I see again coming to the mic could you speak a little louder yeah sorry is this good sorry I\u0027ll just like I\u0027m speak very closely that\u0027s good right so assuming everyone is okay with the agenda then move forward so mark Nottingham lightly pointed out an issue in the data tracker which did we were pointing back to the old legacy tract system for issue tracking and not github and it raises the larger question as to whether or not the github working group is actually using github and in following the best practices document and the configuration document the this the procedure by which we would start doing so is to make sure that the work group is actually on board with doing this so at this time I\u0027d just sort of like to ask the group are we okay with using github in some capacity I\u0027m not specifying exactly what capacity it says the second question to answer do we want to use github for the documents adopted by the working group "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:31",
    "text": "does anyone violently object to this proposal I okay thank you I guess a more a more difficult question than is and what capacity should be using a hook so Martin\u0027s document describes different ways that working groups can use github varying from I guess one end of the extreme like quick using issues and pull requests to drive things forward moving to lists once you need things for consensus versus using github as a way to just track documents and have most discussions take place on the list so the proposal we have for us right now is to have the working group documents in the github organization on github file issues there but make just have all substantial discussions take place on the list considering that we don\u0027t expect a lot of term much like quick it seems like a fairly reasonable proposal to at least the chairs so we\u0027d like to hear what the work motor participants think of this idea Martin yeah ma well mam Thompson well I have to really eat it yeah I think this is the right way to do this this is as a process type arrangement this is a group that will probably bring in people who are not familiar with the processes that we\u0027re talking about we\u0027re not familiar with github and that and that world and if we start having discussions on github and hiding things from them we might end up with surprises and I would rather have the substantive discussion on the mailing list I realize that\u0027s the conservative approach here but I think it\u0027s probably appropriate and as you said it\u0027s not going to be hugely high traffic on the documents themselves I think we\u0027re gonna be talking about most of that stuff today right thank you Brian yeah for animal +12 that working in two working groups you know one quick and two taps or the which use github I think one good that this process requires a little bit more discipline of the editors to be able to say okay this issue is actually crossing the line move it over it\u0027s worked well in both the working groups that I\u0027ve seen it in one additional piece of tooling that can be a backstop of that as a script that goes by and posts if you changes summary to the list so quick does that I have an action item to get that up before the taps working group meeting tomorrow so yeah I I think we have running code for this one and it works pretty well so I do it here too okay let\u0027s lift missed can you speak a little closer say okay although I understand that support the approach if using a give the floor certain side problems event amenities for the substitute discussion you\u0027ll find that over time will be very hard to separate the two because often you raise an issue and a lot of substantive discussion happens and github it will require a lot of discipline and a policy setting by the chairs to actually make it happen "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:32",
    "text": "but good work but I think it\u0027s a good so do note that this says file issues on github not discussed them on github that is so that we use github as an issue topic list not as an issue discussion list for this and and sometimes you might want to record the status of the issues as discussions happen in the mailing list or and and in these meetings I think the point was well made about the fact that things tend to bleed into those issues and people tend to just pile on on issues we had this experience early on in HTTP 2 where we followed a very similar process to what\u0027s being proposed and yes initially it does require a little bit of vigilance but when you get past a certain point the regular participants start doing the job of the chairs and the editors and whatnot for you and so it it tends to build a little momentum and it turns out to be quite workable long term I\u0027m not sure this is gonna be a long term working group though so I think we\u0027ll just have to rely on a little bit of little bit of extra effort from the chairs Heon we can manage that perfectly reasonable we\u0027re willing to do that all right so hearing no objections we\u0027ll just we\u0027ll go forward that particular process file all the issues on the github documents and we\u0027ll take wait oh I have all those guys should take place on the list just that everyone can follow along those not familiar with the the tooling and the process of using github to the extent that clicked it groups like quick use it so the next order of business is on tooling and projects that are relevant to the particular working group so several of you who may I\u0027ve already used or github and a you know working group that you\u0027re participating in my probably familiar with some of the tools listed here in particular markets template tool for generating markdown drafts quite useful rich has some scripts as well there\u0027s also this great being script that Brian was referring to earlier that with most issues from github and summarize them to the mailing list certainly we would like to see these continue to be developed and maintained to the extent that they serve and add value to the people who are using github in their working groups a question we have for folks in this room is to what extent or what are some other tools rather that would benefit working groups using github and you know varying capacities so for example what what new tools with benefits folks in the quick working group who use it very heavily for a review and discussion of material instead of having that all take place on the list so there\u0027s a link here to some wiki which has some ideas we can pull them up but be curious to hear what others think are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:34",
    "text": "some things that might be some added value yeah then the New York Internet Society the non-speaking grant study so maybe you just answer my question with that last link and I didn\u0027t see that as my iPad but um is that a description of what these tools are can you repeat the question so is that is that last link a description of what these tools are and how people can use them use the last link on the bottom of page yeah that\u0027s what I\u0027m asking is that is that what it is okay yes okay because I think that\u0027s the piece would be one comment I\u0027ve had from people who have been working trying to work with this is they don\u0027t understand what tools are available to work with IDs and things we\u0027ve out there so whatever documentation or however we can prove that would be great and I will take a look at that okay yeah thank you yeah this is like an ample and implicit topic for brainstorming in the in the wiki I\u0027m not sure how useful it is to discuss now it\u0027s trying to just put it on everyone\u0027s radar and buggy here so certainly go and look at the wiki and see if you can make edit but if there\u0027s something that you think everyone should hear in this particular room but I see a line forming behind me which me that\u0027s why it worked I just wanted to emphasize the and their documentation piece sort of to what Dan was saying but I think for some parts of the community the hard part here is understanding the existing tools not that they need more different tools so if there are volunteers who want to work on the documentation I think that would be most welcome are you volunteering Martin I thought you had anti volunteered before thank you so to emphasize that wearing a different hat I was editor of the initial RSC beat our new RFC format the v3 format and one of the things we heard constantly was that yes there were tools out there for doing interesting things but they weren\u0027t well documented as they got better documented we saw a rapid ink in use by early-adopter bike people other than early adopters so documentation here is especially important for people using the tools the first time so if you find a tool that you find use you think it\u0027s useful and you struggle with it and you make it useful by all means write down what your struggle was that is actually really helpful for literally thousands of people after you or alternatively file issues on the - of HSN cells hi Brett Barker Stark who would love to help with the documentation I\u0027ve actually used some of this to get some github sites up and running for it two of my working groups and I\u0027ve actually also used them from my personal repository to work on a draft and as someone who doesn\u0027t do code and doesn\u0027t comprehend how to read make "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:35",
    "text": "files and things like that I think I could probably be really useful in helping provide documentation for people like me because while I\u0027d used it what I\u0027ve done is seriously broken and so that\u0027s good thanks Mike Bishop I will also add that what we need is not just documentation on the individual tools but in the entire process because richest scripts are great and that they will set up a repo for you and they\u0027ll tell you give you the commands to run to set up the ID template you really are kind of on your own for figuring out how to get stuff all up and running how to get the notify scripts running because we don\u0027t have a unified workflow of you go into github to create this repo you add the template to it you hook ups your whole all of those are separate tasks they\u0027re documented in different places and not all of them are well documented fair I\u0027m just going to point out you have mark Martin\u0027s document does describe how to set up circle but to your point yet some of the documentation scattered and it\u0027d be nice if it could be collated in a single place for everyone to use so can I just get a show of hands from folks in the room who would be interested in potentially helping develop slash maintain slash ed documentation slash comment on use for this so I should pretty much help with this overall effort cool how that actually take place you don\u0027t really have a specific process in mind I minimally you know take a look at the tools tried file issues for a groovy documentation right now and perhaps we can Paul and I can go off and think of something more formal if we need to but just start using them and tell the folks who maintain them essentially what\u0027s wrong with them and how they can be improved that would be at least a way to get certain so and as a note on this the this is tooling not a kind of software that you might expect in github so an issue of I don\u0027t understand how to do this thing is a perfectly reasonable issue whereas you would normally get jumped on and get up for a comment like that that\u0027s actually valuable here because we had a fair smattering of hands and people who said that they were willing to do documentation even an issue of I try I I got halfway through the tool and then I stopped because of this that\u0027s just fine we wouldn\u0027t mind that at all right so on that note that\u0027s the last slide so we\u0027ll move on to the first presentation which is Alyssa right so since the last meeting this draft was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:40",
    "text": "adopted by the working group and then we did one revision changes are pretty minimal and not visible on the clicker doesn\u0027t work or something oh there we go okay so there three changes the first one was slight modification in the abstract so before it used to say that though foreign group does not intend to change the processes used by current working groups there was a little bit of lack of clarity about whether this meant that working groups that are currently using github could change their processes to align with whatever we produce here if they wanted to so we changed this so now it says that current working groups are not required to change their process but leaves open the possibility that they still could the second change was about adding a sentence to note the existence of other code repository services made possibly with different properties there was some discussion on the list about this and people wanted it to be noted in this in this draft and though this drafts specifically about github and then lastly we had this old note that was in there about needing to research the API for connecting personnel into the data tracker and the tool scheme can work on this we don\u0027t need it to be noted in the draft there\u0027s this open question about the relationship between this document and Martin\u0027s github BCP document we reference it extensively in this document but it\u0027s we weren\u0027t exactly sure what\u0027s gonna happen with Martin\u0027s document so perhaps after he presents we can talk about that yes okay that\u0027s it comments questions everybody\u0027s perfectly happy with this thing Thompson I have a bit of material on the relationship between this one and my document in the presentation coming up so maybe we can talk about it more there together perhaps Oh sounds great yeah we sort of view these as sort of codependent documents that go hand-in-hand so yes we can talk about it a little bit okay like that\u0027s it no questions yeah 30 minutes flew by oh well I don\u0027t have that many you know I didn\u0027t know what to put on the title slide so that way that\u0027s what we had chicken chicken "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:41",
    "text": "chicken yeah chicken chicken or maybe it\u0027s my name tonight so yeah one of the critical questions I think in discussing this will be the relationship between the two drafts that we talked about so um I set things up a little bit so um I want to talk a little bit about what I why I put the document together and how it sort of approaches its discussion the goal of this is largely to describe how things work why they might interact with those things it\u0027s it spends a lot of time carving up various areas where there be dragons because I think that\u0027s one of the one of the things that is particularly dangerous in this area there\u0027s a lot of there\u0027s other ways you can use these tools that don\u0027t work productively and so well and so having a lot of documentation on the things you might think would be a good idea but aren\u0027t really in practice is is very useful I find and that means that it as a general thing the document tries to sort of guide people towards particular approaches it doesn\u0027t have any strict template or saying here\u0027s the things that you will do it simply says if you do these things and understand that these have these consequences and you might want to do this as a thing so if we\u0027re talking about documenting processes the current formula document isn\u0027t entirely suitable for that sort of thing but it does provide a lot of information for someone who\u0027s who\u0027s setting this this process up to make their own choices I don\u0027t know whether this is a good thing or not and I\u0027d like some input on that when we get to the discussion part of this presentation so one of the things that I think is particularly challenging here is that the way that we use these tools and the things that we know about how those tools operate is evolving and the tools themselves are changing and for instance we\u0027re having a discussion now and quick about how we manage the consensus process and what the tools can do to support that and there\u0027s probably a lot more learning in that area before we can really say anything concrete about about what to do fortunately our seas are really bad at capturing these sorts of things in a past life I spend quite a lot of time doing Quality Assurance training and until 9000 certification all those wonderful things and part of the approach there was that you would have a continuous evolution of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:42",
    "text": "processes that you have and one of the philosophies that I learned in that was that you capture what you\u0027re doing rather than what you might aspire to be doing and that\u0027s another aspect of this one that I think we\u0027ll have to be aware of as we as we go into this I don\u0027t expect that any document that is produced in this vein will be valid in five years time it\u0027s an RC you\u0027re gonna stamp it in stone but then it\u0027s gonna be almost immediately invalid so we have to be sensitive to that that\u0027s why maybe having processes documented more concretely would be a bad idea I realized that I\u0027ve talked about this document in its various versions twice uh presented on it and I\u0027ve never actually gone through what\u0027s in it I think we\u0027ve been talking about other things in relation to that so I thought I\u0027d give a little bit of an overview what\u0027s what\u0027s going on here have a sort of high-level there\u0027s some mechanical parts to it sort of how they ITF and github an erection was well did you have a question you want to ask now what you want to hold it off for it was Robert sparks is to comment on point you made on your last slide show up not documenting details I think that it would be useful to you capture the details but just frame them as at this time the following happen because you will have people come back in five years or ten years and look at this and try to understand how things evolved and it would be good to actually have concrete touchstones to help decipher what was really happening yeah I think probably we need to have some sort of banner on it that says this is this is where we are right now and things might change but it doesn\u0027t have that at the moment so there\u0027s there\u0027s a bunch of the document that deals with sort of mechanics of the interactions making organizations and assigning permissions to people and whatnot there\u0027s a bunch of things about how you bootstrap this process and how the working group decides to to do this and the policies that the working group might might evolve there\u0027s a chunk of discussion about the the features that are available how you use them the pitfalls that are inherent in that use and some guidance after that that sort of walks through some of the other things as a tile section on assessing you know how you manage the consensus process with a tool like this and there\u0027s an other discussion about advising editors for instance on on what would be a good practice southern sort of structural stuff there\u0027s a considerable overlap between "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:42",
    "text": "this and the document that Alyssa and Paul have put together on this one it talks about how to set up organizations or repositories and even to some extent what sort of tools are available in the data tracker which is something that\u0027s going to change in like two weeks and I don\u0027t think that\u0027s really going to make a lot of sense my proposal here is to try to remove as much of this stuff from the document as possible and move it over to the other document I think most of the this is strictly duplicative at the moment there may be a few a few things that we need to look at but I\u0027d like to make sure that we do that so if anyone disagrees with me I\u0027d like to hear that excellent do as I say um speaking of doing as I say the process that a working group might you go through to decide to use github is a particular particular point here that the document spends quite a bit of time on in doing so you end up talking a little bit about the features that are available in github and what working groups might use them for or not but there\u0027s there\u0027s a small section in here that talks about the process by which a working group I might do that and the the various trade-offs that you might make some of the discussion that we just just had during chrises presentation here and so for me I\u0027m interested in asking the question how specific should we be in in this advice currently it\u0027s fairly loose and it could be more specific we could do things like saying well here\u0027s a particular playbook as it were we\u0027re following the the light-touch playbook cause if you want to say and then there\u0027s also though the quick style and deep integration where you have a lot of the discussion on things on get up those I think are the two main things that sort of emerged out of the the experience that we\u0027ve had but if there\u0027s anything more obviously we can we can have a look at that as well does this need to actually write down those those interaction models more more clearly as option A or option B or what have you said that we can have sort of handles to to grab one set and I think we can open the open the lines on this one from them from the mailing list I think those were the two main choices that\u0027s the impression I get as well yep so far there might be more later but I think that that\u0027s a reasonable start and one thing that I heard this week off list was somebody saying we\u0027re thinking of getting you know of doing it I think we\u0027ll end up heavy but if we start light we\u0027ll be able to figure out how to go from light to heavy so you don\u0027t need a transition model just how to get them going light and they\u0027ll stumble into it at least that was a hallway thing from well that\u0027s an that\u0027s a good that\u0027s a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:43",
    "text": "good point I don\u0027t think there\u0027s any discussion in here about how you might evolve the process but obviously the same process for starting can be used to transition we probably need to write that down Thanks so it\u0027s been Barbara stark it\u0027s been my experience so in broadband form we\u0027ve been doing a lot of things with all the atlast and stuff so we\u0027ve got the bit bucket and all these other things and trying to educate people kind of similarly do I think what you\u0027re trying to do here that we don\u0027t have all these expensive tools but you really need someplace like a readme MD and instructions there that are living document and I think a lot of the things you\u0027re talking about here really need to be in a living document that as tools change because the tools are going to be changing regularly and you need to update your document regularly and as people have questions you need to update all that regularly and I think a lot of what you\u0027re talking about here really needs to go and that sort of thing and not in a static document yes it might be that we we develop guidelines here and simply say that the working groups maintain one of these things in a prominent location and I don\u0027t know what that advice will be concretely but it\u0027s it sounds like good advice elissa Cooper so building off of that there is a little bit of discussion starting in the IAE about stream of living documents that we might experiment with so these would not be RFC\u0027s so this some portion of this let\u0027s see Marcus dancing you live rent it might be candidate for that but I think it is be really useful to separate that the pieces that people do think are going to be dynamic and continue to change and the pieces that are not like I just think about this slide is called deciding to use github like hopefully the the little bit in the draft which actually talks about how to decide it is not going to change a lot then it\u0027s like what the choices are and all that like that might change right so I can see that but there\u0027s also a substantive separation in those things like one of these is about like how does a working group run itself sort of like BZ p25 update kind of thing and then the other is like here\u0027s a bunch of things that they could choose to do once they\u0027ve they are following the process of how they run and I think keeping those conceptually separate will be useful to get this to get the part that does need to become an RFC advanced through the idea so Alyssa before you go so if this if what comes out of this working group especially the work on Martin\u0027s thing is that we should have a static document and a living document our we are we this working group going to get worked on how do we set up a living document yeah so I really don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:43",
    "text": "want that to happen start with work yeah interestingly no other work group that wants to use living documents wants that to happen either presumably because that\u0027s kind of the point like it\u0027s it\u0027s very meta like the people who really want to do living documents definitely don\u0027t want to like wait for some process so that they can do living documents so like this is extremely preliminary like I didn\u0027t even ask the IHG if I could talk about this before I came to the microphone because we\u0027ve literally like only exchanged a few emails about it but we haven\u0027t talked about it since Bank so I can\u0027t really tell you much about what the shape of this is gonna be because like I might walk into the ISU meeting tomorrow and everybody says we hate this we don\u0027t want to do it but I think if it if it starts to look like this we\u0027ll get hung up then like just leave it in a draft a draft is great a draft is a living document that you can update any time so it need not get hung up on that okay good because I just having lived through the wars of saying having an IAS G literally 20 years ago tell us russ has lee and i keep a living document and we did and then we got beaten up for it later when it when it finally got instantiated I don\u0027t want that to happen here because that would be a really bad example for exactly the topic that we have here so okay so we might keep even if the working group closed down we might keep a draft alive until the you know the way that things can live is decided Joe Joe Hall do we have a good feel for like the minimal set of like normative things that we need to say like if you\u0027re gonna use you have whatever you must do these things seem small what that is and seems like the rest and stuff is like hey if you\u0027re gonna think about it there\u0027s some really good experience that we can encapsulate in a document having a hard time seeing the minimal said yeah you gonna do this yeah so John that\u0027s a really good question and when I looked at this the amount of things that concretely fall into the into this into this category of stuff that we can put in stone is is relatively small but it may be important for us to put them in stone so that we can have some way to bootstrap the process and have a formal statement from a consensus statement of the IETF ideally that says this is how you decide to use one of those tools and these are the sorts of things you need to consider when you when when establishing them and I know the Nottingham had a draft about using third-party services and then there may be some some things in there that are to this but the sort of things I\u0027m thinking about there is the decision-making process that you follow the content on this slide the the way that you assess consensus when dealing with external tools like this I think is probably quite critical to have in one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:45",
    "text": "of those documents and there may be some of the things that is in the document that Alyssa and Paul would put together about the way that the ownership arrangements are set up on these things and they may need to be abstracted a little bit because the document that we have is very very concrete which is a good thing but if you wanted to create a process document that there was a little higher level then it would look like a much reduced not only being a couple of pages and we don\u0027t have to deal with that very very much but the that document as an update to IRA see what would be CP 25 I think you said I don\u0027t remember all the numbers but an update to that or something that was related to that would be possibly a good thing to consider doing I just don\u0027t have one right now so the next topic is well there\u0027s a bunch of stuff in the in the draft that falls in that category of things that are far too specific to really want to pin down at this point and we might we may give the document in draft form for some extended period of time just so we can get more experience with these things and it talks about issues and pull requests and do you use the wiki and continuous integration and always sorts of other things and they\u0027re going to be very specific to the tools that you have but what I think is important is having a document that captures all of the the learning that we\u0027ve gained all the experience we\u0027re going over the over the past eight years or so since people have started doing this thing so I like this part but don\u0027t know what to do with it there are two sections in here who has some discussion on the list about the consensus pieces of it I think there\u0027s some there\u0027s some work to be done here I think the original versions of the document sort of took this laissez-faire approach where you can do whatever you want with the documents which is fairly consistent with the way that documents are developed prior to this but it sort of said that well you know stuff happens on the document and editors make some sort of decisions on on what goes in and out of the document and then you come to the back to the working group and ultimately the working group is a backstop on this thing any who can\u0027t even imagine saying that working group last call is the time when you make the final assessment about whether there\u0027s consensus on any given thing the thinking has evolved a lot past that and so we have we\u0027ve moved from the models that we have active this active discussion on the on the document and consensus to merge things various stages of the lifetime of the of the document changes so you can imagine that if you\u0027ve got an individual draft the obviously the editors and authors of an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:47",
    "text": "interview draft are just gonna dump whatever they want in there regardless of what the working group thinks because they\u0027re not that of their business once something becomes a working group draft is that there\u0027s a little higher bar for that and one of the things we discovered with with quick in particular was that there was a need early on in this process to to give considerable leeway to editors in making decisions about what it was that went in the document and what what was left out and then we had sort of these these attempts at processes to to sort of retro actively bless the things that were in in the document and it gets really kind of complicated and fairly confident saying that most people didn\u0027t really understand what was going on and what had consensus in what didn\u0027t have consensus what I think we heard was consensus that that that the documents were largely headed in the right direction that we wanted to work on the protocol but there wasn\u0027t a whole lot more than that and so we\u0027re sort of come to the realization there\u0027s multiple stages in the life cycle of the document where different processes that are approach and so the the the draft at the moment doesn\u0027t really capture this very well and I think we need to spend a little bit of time thinking about how that works right now and quick we\u0027ve moved to a far more formal process where the documents are considered to embody the current consensus of the document absent any issues that the editor that the working group chairs agree our open issues on the document there\u0027s a kind of interesting process to be in but it means that you have essentially consensus on all the bits of the document that have that are done plus all of the things that are broken now you you only have consensus that they\u0027re broken you don\u0027t necessarily have consensus on the solutions to any of those things but but you have sort of a baseline for working and then every single change that substantive on that on the document reduces the cetera known broken things and and moves the document closer on qualitative being done and so that sort of process is is much more appropriate later in the in in the lifecycle of a document and we sort of saw that informally happen in the late stages of say TLS one three where we would have extensive discussion on substantive changes before they went at the document but it was that was informal we didn\u0027t have any real recognition that we were transitioning between between one phase and another I think this is generally how documents are developed once they get more mature in in the process we sort of see people being more sensitive to change and be more proactive in gaining working group consensus and relying more excuse me on the on the judgment of chairs but this thing\u0027s a little bit more work so I guess Mike you have some insights just gonna comment I don\u0027t think we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:49",
    "text": "actually when we say we have an issue we\u0027re not saying that we have consensus that it\u0027s a problem we do not have consensus that what\u0027s in the document is right right okay then that\u0027s a great great clarification my has decided to block the whole mark not on you I really do have to eat this so the the late stage process that we introduced in quick which short advertisement we started using a project board to manage that the stages that product process github introduced project boards I guess a year or so ago and and it\u0027s lots of fun your your game of flying this it\u0027s really cool I would encourage people to try it out but we introduced that do this specific largely due to the specific situation the quick sanding that our Charter says we start with these documents but we explicitly don\u0027t have consensus on their contents and so we needed a way to flip from that state to documents reflected consensus and that\u0027s why one of the reasons why the late stage process was introduced um early impressions I\u0027ve heard some concern because people didn\u0027t then didn\u0027t understand it and we probably needed to explain it better but but so far it\u0027s fun fairly smoothly but it\u0027s a tool that may not be appropriate in other situations regarding what Mike said the issues I think I think we\u0027ve said this before but it\u0027s worth repeating you know that the issues are a little bit of a moral hazard and that you have some folks who oh look it\u0027s an issues list and I have dealt with lots of github issues list before I have an idea let\u0027s get it out in the world and that does create sometimes a bit of a nightmare situation where you have this ever-increasing set of issues because people have an idea in the middle of the night or on the toilet or whatever so that\u0027s that\u0027s one of the reasons why you have a bar for for accepting those for discussion than working group we\u0027ve always said in HTTP as well as in but the issues list is a mechanism that the chairs and the editors used to manage the conversation in the state of things in the world it\u0027s not the arbiter of consensus and it\u0027s important to reinforce that I think yeah and so this is whether the advice that we have in this document sort of crosses over into into something that\u0027s a little more concrete potentially the the view that it choose and the management of issues represents working group consensuses is is a trap and we learned that pretty early on it if you if you insist on working group consensus before making any change to the document you you end up in complete paralysis particularly early on in the process but like I said it\u0027s it\u0027s a tool that we use for editors and chairs to manage this manage the the outstanding work it\u0027s not not really the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:50",
    "text": "the final arbiter of consensus that that\u0027s the process that ultimately happens in the working group so Paul Hoffman not wearing a hat here but as somebody who\u0027s been in warth who has not been active in TLS quick or HDV but has been active in other groups using github um I think that the discussion so far has actually been driven by these groups that use it heavily and not by the groups that use it lightly and so your question at the end here is how useful is this stuff I think it actually might be useful to rip this stuff out because working groups that are going to adopt this in a gentle fashion might have a very different way of doing things and there are plenty of working groups that do just fine with consensus on the list before a change happens in the document and such like that so I I would prefer if unless it was sort of a load-bearing section to actually take out this kind of advice and possibly have something like a narrative of some groups that have used the heavy duty virility if we\u0027re gonna go a light and heavy that have used a heavy duty version describing how they used it as such I don\u0027t want I I think that it might scare away people from using the lightweight version so I don\u0027t think there\u0027s any any intent to say that a working group couldn\u0027t decide to operate up right under that process and so the intent here is its document no it\u0027s nothing I mean one let\u0027s document that there\u0027s a little text on there for the benefit of the heavy weight process specifically because it\u0027s far more complicated but those groups that I\u0027ve been in that that do exactly the process that you talked about make the decision and then just use the issue to track them I think that\u0027s already covered in here and maybe if I can get you to read it again and direct specific comments at it that would be that would be good will do but it is intended to cover that case yeah I know is it covered I would so maybe if we do the split of light and heavy then we take the advice and the way to do it that would that would make it I think clearer all right yeah I would not be in favor of removing this material it\u0027s taking quite a while over several working groups to evolve a reasonable workflow that he\u0027s get hub heavy and like not like removing that like like as a disservice to people who like we\u0027d like to recollect that working groups unless it can we people were able to run give up or any mark Nottingham and Sean Turner so so I don\u0027t think we should remove it I I do think I do think it\u0027s useful to sort the stage of like you know the sort of to Orchestra to extreme up right what extrema is that github is purely like a coordination tool and you know and all consensus is to clear like entirely enlist with no you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:51",
    "text": "you know but we\u0027re you and there\u0027s another one where like the practical matters extremely hard like me gauge without like you know with it without you know engaging weekend right and like I mean quick and TLS like it\u0027s gotten extremely hard to like engage pushing quick without like having some get up we get into engagement I mean you know certainly it\u0027s technically true like you just read the documents as they came out but like you know like you know there\u0027s a lot of inertia and it changes by the time you get to that point so um you know I think you know we have to sort of cover that spectrum um but but but I think again I think like they\u0027re just as you can so landing at this point that like I really be favorite not okay that yet rich solve yeah rich rich sauce guru there Decker said also for groups that want to get further along on the learning curve or adoption figuration with github as you said this is hard learned and knowledge and it shouldn\u0027t disappear the ether there are people who will not want to do it and maybe we need to put more disclaimers that there\u0027s no requirement you do this if you\u0027re concerned about using you know a Microsoft owned resource to manage some of your workflow don\u0027t do that just do this part but yeah don\u0027t don\u0027t move this Jeffrey askin I\u0027m hoping to set up a working group yet at ATF 105 or after IT 105 and we will probably want to use github heavily and we want to rely I will help to rely on on this advice when doing that yeah and so the one that I did we didn\u0027t spend a lot of time talking about here is there\u0027s some sort of very low-level advice for editors about how to deal with contributions from outside of the community and all those sorts of things like that if anyone has some opinions on that I\u0027d like to hear about that but probably not right now I don\u0027t think it\u0027s sort of core of what we\u0027re doing okay oh yeah these are the questions does this have approximately the right scope with modulo the the movement of all of the structural stuff to the other document is it worth publishing will we have had that discussion and is it this working group where we it\u0027s most appropriate to do that so I\u0027ll leave this with one with the chairs I\u0027m gonna go and sit down right so can I get a quick show of hands as to who\u0027s read this particular document I guess any version of it okay pretty decent amount it seems certainly like something that would benefit the community for numerous reasons especially given that it sort of correlates all the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:52",
    "text": "saying harder about hard hard the knowledge that we had you know a long time ago a very quick yes thank you it\u0027s Thursday so to that point I think I\u0027d like to ask the working group if we think this document should be adopted given the current scope of the material that\u0027s in there right now which does contain some advice for the light and heavy variance of the groups who would like to use it doesn\u0027t dictate any particular profile for groups who want to use it it simply just tries to guide people along the path that is best for them in their particular working group for their particular process so question will be do you want to adopt this as a working group item yes or no but quickly I think Martin is going to comment on something yeah monotone Sam you made a lot of references of the light and heavies and all those other things in the scope of the document yes the fact of it overlaps with not the document to some extent all of that can change in this working group so I I sort of was taken assuming that the the material especially through that overlaps with the the configuration document would be removed there was no violent objection to that and seemed silly to have the information duplicated so yes to your point yes the the information can change especially because as a community we are still learning how to use github effectively github might change features that influence what\u0027s actually written down for example with the issue tracker just be completely removed in favor of this can\u0027t bad sass poor thing whatever yeah things may change but the question remains should the working group have a document of this variety that sort of tries to document this information and advice for the benefit of other people trying to use it in either light or happy mode so if anyone no one\u0027s going to get up to ask a question I will just ask the question now so please hum now if you think this document should be adopted by the working group and please home now if you do not laughter in the other room that\u0027s not helpful but so is there any individual who would like to speak so so what we heard was vast majority of hump we thought we didn\u0027t hear any commas against is there anyone would like to speak against adopting this document the working group at this point all right so we will adopt it Martin well it\u0027s been a new version for the work group and we can move forward with it and we ask that people who especially people who are you know using github in the light variant please review it provide suggestions as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:52",
    "text": "issues and discussion on the list regarding ways in which that particular advice could be improved either in terms of you know turning off or maybe perhaps turning down or changing some language around the heavy profile that such that doesn\u0027t turn away people who want to use it for the light variant or whatever certainly we want to make sure that the information that\u0027s available for any you know potential user of github as maximally useful for so and once once we have it in the working group Chris and I will take this to the working group chairs mailing list cuz I again I I am more I am only active in working groups that are in the light mode and it seems like the most active people here are in working groups in the bleeding edge mode and it would be great if there\u0027s anyone here now who is also in the light mode but we will we will actively seek out working group chairs to contribute to how they are using now or how they would you know just like to start be using so now that that is done Mountain Thomson there\u0027s a couple of things that came up in the discussion that I\u0027d like to get a sense of whether people think that it would be useful to try to break out those pieces of this document that are concretely actionable in terms of a process so updates to BCP 25 for instance that would say formalize the decision-making process perhaps and maybe capture some of the the key points of the the consensus side of this is there any interest in in having a document that maybe we could publish sooner maybe doesn\u0027t have to be living I I don\u0027t I don\u0027t need to get the the response now but I\u0027d certainly like people\u0027s thoughts on whether that\u0027s worth doing I mean certainly to Alyssa\u0027s point earlier and that we would hopefully the material or the information that says but the guides work moves towards deciding whether or not to use github is fairly static and should not change at this point so checkout off I can go be useful to certainly perhaps refactor things in a different way either within the context of the single document or to have the you know more dynamic material elsewhere is a separate question to be addressed whether it goes through this potential experiment that the ihe might consider or a wiki page or something but yeah I think if there\u0027s value in really owning it and solidifying the concrete static material sooner rather than later Alyssa Cooper yeah I think maybe then a right next step is to within this document just try to separate those things out so we can see like how much of how much material is there really for a visa b25 update if it\u0027s like three normative statements or it\u0027s like more than that and then and then figure out it\u0027s like splitting that off makes sense "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:52",
    "text": "or not and I think if it does get split off advancing the configuration document and the BCP 25 update at the same time would probably be most helpful for the community\u0027s understanding of what what\u0027s going on here yeah grease-free go so the Charter for this working group doesn\u0027t involve changing IES IETF processes actually I was gonna look at it does it actually does it say that we will not well know process but if it becomes clear that we\u0027re changing IETF processes working need a much larger room regardless of how many people signed the blue sheet and I would rather and as chair I would rather that not land in our lap we might say here are some things that are useful for that but I would rather if there\u0027s a document coming out that\u0027s going to actually change ITF process that it not come did not be discussed this working group that\u0027s going to be an attractive nuisance so so the the charters kind of kind of says don\u0027t change what we\u0027re doing in 2026 I don\u0027t see it as any of that I see as this is adding in to the set of processes of the organization operates by not not changing any of you the existing ones and I think that\u0027s a little that the Charter I think of miles for that so I think the mistake was saying we were talking about an update to basically 25 what I think we\u0027re talking about is a new PCP that maybe the three paragraphs of laws was talking about but a new PCP that says you may do this more informal segments of the acceptance of what\u0027s going on already today yeah so I mean yeah I mean the Charter says a lot ultra PCP nine is anything right busy people your vibe this is a lot all the nurse there\u0027s process practices BB CC b9 I like the new ekor who\u0027s no longer on the is G yeah well III reviewed this obviously but maybe not carefully enough you know then because these b25 is one that we have about working group processes right so I think Martin is correct with like adding adding more process to what working groups can do like it probably should be an update to be tonight actually update PCP a update RFC\u0027s anyway we\u0027re gonna need to talk about it but I think I think we can add you know there\u0027s like adding guidance to what working groups can do is a fine thing for this order to do it seems to be within the Charter and we\u0027re not changing the standards process okay as long as we\u0027re not change to standard processes all like I say I just think that this working group would be the appropriate I mean if if that came to this working group I think that it would change the flavor of the working group passively that said I think that you know that we just don\u0027t debate "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:52",
    "text": "whether or not things were good ideas you know I imagine some uses of github for like consensus testing which like I would not be in favor of even if there were things go for the working group lingering question all right neither new topic so I was just waiting to see that one the bit does anyone want to volunteer to co-author this document with me just putting that out there well there\u0027s a large audience and see mark not again volunteering right there excellent oh yeah that was a volunteer that wasn\u0027t if no one else does I will for the minutes Oh rich is gonna say that to you to can fight each other food for the owner so Mark Martin Martin I suggest that you put the firt the zero zero working with zero zero on the list with just you unless you have an active one but you start the discussion with you would like a co-author I\u0027m just offering the opportunity to someone I have plenty of one who did we\u0027re indistinguishable anyway sir once it\u0027s a working group document that the working with chairs can can solicit more heavily for no longer for you I understand here the interview and then I\u0027m happy to help if you think abuse one great thank thank you hi I mean like while I think all the people who is injured is mentioned we\u0027re fine people might actually be helpful to be an author who is from a sort of more light trician like you know what why have made it much confidence in Martin Thompson um you know he\u0027s obviously from the sort of heavy gift tradition is that might be I\u0027ll follow us on with really tradition to me you know it\u0027s like one thing you have the works I hope you\u0027ll pay attention yeah Wow yeah we will deal with that Martin feel free to submit the O and then we\u0027ll work out the authorship later on I don\u0027t think it\u0027s a big deal so I guess on that note we don\u0027t really have anything else to discuss on this there\u0027s more pressing issues going once going twice alright we will adjourn here thanks everyone "
  }
]