[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:44",
    "text": "Yeah. I just want to click it. Hello, everyone. This is the past competition element working group session. Live from Prague. Okay. Usually, our business, not well. Please be aware that any IETF contribution is subject to some rules related to, IPR So you should be familiar with them. It's already Thursday. So even if it's your first IETF meeting, condition, viewer of them, she needs some specific, comments, we can point you to some specific documents necessary, but most of the pointers here are us are useful. So make sure you abide by the rules here. Court of conduct, as well. We are a bunch of technical people. We are all equal. We're supposed to be full to each other. So if you believe there is some misbehavioral somewhere. People who can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "assist or guide you, trigger some processes if you really believe some people aren't respectful enough. So Yeah. Just make more on more effort to make sure that everyone feels integrated in contributing in the ATF process. So there are some ways to signal any situation there. So we are a mix, live, face to face and, online meetings or we're using medical. It's also include the queuing mechanisms. So I guess most of you should be familiar with them. There is the the the local app, which is useful to both sign the virtual blue sheet to make sure that we have the right amount people to make sure you have the right size of room for next time. Also to get into the queue if you have something to say at the mic. So don't forget to press the button if necessary joined a virtual crew that combine both remote and local participants. So we have Andrew who's in charge of taking minutes. The link to the note page is here. So if you want to give him a hand or correct your name or add something that wasn't properly cups, cups, by him in the minutes, please feel free to to collaborate to the bay page here, the more accurate he will be included in there, the better for, further, reference to and minutes later. So the Q mentioned, and there's a chat, that took me assess directory strategical or using the ZULIT tool."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "We are connected on on it, but in in case we miss some important messages, make sure that there are forwarded to the list because the the mainly instrument is our main tool to to coordinate, to to work in the working. Of usual reminder, at each step of the working group life, we expect people to express their views. The more we have expressing their views, the more we can go out conferences on this side according to the working group preference, especially during adoption calls, muscles, and so on. So, please don't forget to use the public mailing list, we know that for many works, people are using some private mailing lists which is okay, but We also need to sort of have some, visibility at the working global to make sure that everyone is aware of the progress on the works and make sure that we reflect the consensus within the full working group, not within a subset of people. Remind as well. We would come back to it later. We have the heli allocation cut point process, which is pretty useful. We know that usually takes takes time before being published as an RFC. So implementation sometimes need some good point before it's published. It makes sense. So we're happy to help on request allocation of cut point before recipublication, US professors processes quite clear about that. We have several example in the working group. Successful example in the working group. So, if you believe your craft or work in progress, request require some components. Please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:04",
    "text": "We will call contact the chair on with the about it, process according the agenda. So it's been published for quite a while. I guess. No one is raising the hand to bash it. So we'll proceed with it. We start with the usual working group status. So since the latest, the IETF to face meeting. We have 1 or face which is the which is the the local protection enforcement. And we have 2 other one, which are with the ROC editor. So, hopefully, they will be able to publish Soon, the binding level, which is spending another document, linked to, as our basics. And we have the full gym PRS, which is not, blocked on any other months. So it's a matter of administrative process to to to receive publication. We have another one which is with the idea g, which is the one mentioned before, linked to binding label on rated to a service. There was a a changed since it was, move forward it simplifies a bit the the the body the document there. We believe it will be able to progress, without any further flows there. Quite confident to publish this one on the binding 1, depending on on it. In a near future. So as mentioned before, we have multiple documents that have,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "like a point allocation. We have a a wiki that tracks down all these early allocations. So that's, a reference page for all the associated, the working group information several of them are, renewed regularly because usually it's, 1 year term when we request the checkpoints. So Sometimes it takes more than more than more than 1 a full year to publish the document as an overseas. So there's a renewal, which is, well defined process as well. So 3 of them were renewed quite recently. Some other will expire next year, although there is one which is work in progress. We have charter in progress. John told us that on the IAG agenda for the end of the month. So we hope that it be approved soon on keep the working loop informed of the output of this discussion, but we don't expect any showstopper there. No major shift in the walking group direction so far. So we're quite confident in USG approval there. No numerator to mention, no new lesion in the equation. Missouri, Missouri So We can move forward with the walking bite is want to take the message. So let's go over the status of working group. If any of your documents, you wanna add something, feel free to come to the mic. And clarify, especially if I make a mistake. Let's start with documents which are in post working group last call."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "The p set yank, document. We made an update, but it's actually already working with last call is done, and we are waiting for the shipment review. And saw in Julian, and Julian has promised to do this quickly, and hopefully, we will see this. Just one more update on this. There is a discussion on the net mod list as well, which is originated from this young model, in this young model, in the operational state, we have a must statement, which we thought was okay, but there is a debate about how useful must and error messages are on a operational database. And the general suggestion that I got was that it's not as useful you could remove it. So maybe with one of the action item which is pending is that in the few of the leaves which are read only, will remove the must and the error messages. That's my current plan. Until, if something changes in the network list, then I'll come back to the working group and notify, notify, The other documents both of them are on the agenda, so we can skip I mean, they have dedicated agenda time anyway. So the documents which are nearing working group last call let's just have a very quick look so that working group is well aware on what the chairs are thinking and how we are progressing these set of documents. We have a FlexGrid document which has expired, but based on the status from the last meeting it is ready. And I think, if anything has changed, the author's piece and let us know. Otherwise, we we will be we think it is ready to be, last call, and we will request the authors to please redirect the draft so that we can make progress. We have the document which were discussed in the last meeting. Which is related to our segment routing as our policy, association stuff. They had an update which is good. They removed some text which was discussed earlier, especially related to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:03",
    "text": "a multiple optimization objective and constraint. This was the discussion that this is not part of the SAR policy architecture. So it could be removed. So, good thing is that they have acted on it and hope Hopefully, we will be we should be able to make progress in this document as This is an important one. It has an RNA code point already allocated as well. So implementations as well. So hopefully, we will make progress of this soon. We have EC optional sort of stable more or less I think it's, ready as well. State sync is on the agenda. So let's skip that. And we have the color document which we adopted, but we also since it's a very straightforward document and there are help. There are, implementations as well. We think we could also last call this soon, but since we all know we have an implementation policy, every working group document needs an implementation section, or they need to tell why it's not needed. So in this I'm sure they have an implementation They just need to fill the section. So just a reminder, to please do that. Other working group IDs, we have, s r part segment, mainly a refresh, not much has changed. Things look stable. If anything has changed, please let us know. We have SR Directional Association, bidirectional Association for SR which is in the similar boat a set of documents related to PCCs. In which we have the next one which is PCCC for SR MPLS look stable. Hopefully, we should be able to move this quickly since we have a pipeline, I hope this number will come soon as well. And the multipath's document in this, I would note that it was presented earlier, but the comments from last meetings are not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "not yet handled. So please make a refresh. So that, like, the progress that we make in the working group meetings and the discussions It's best. It's reflected in the document quickly. That always help the discussions move forward. Other documents, stateful enter domain, on the agenda, p2mp, s rp2mp, which is also on the agenda and said I'll go is on the agenda. So it's good to see a bunch of working group documents on the agenda. So that we can on them as well. We have one document which we took out from an earlier, flow spec documents because IDR work was not ready. IDR work is making progress on f, a flow spec, v 2, there is an open issue that I have been discussing offline, but c No conclusion has been made, which is better. Procedures needs to be updated because of the changes that are happening in the a flow spec need to And one example of this is explicit order. Is possible to do an IDR for respect V2, but in our procedures, We just have a set of TLVs and we don't specify any order among those TLVs. So the question is that do we need that or not as an author, I don't have a very strong opinion on this, but if other people have these let us bathroom to you. I fit And, vendors are all on the same boat, mainly a refresh, and not much has changed, in the recent version. SRV 6 young folks. They did a major update. They aligned with all the changes that were happening in. They were comments on the list, so thank you for that. And thanks for authors to handle those comments as well. We are not in the same boat. We have, PCC CSR V Six. There were comments from Adrian, and the authors have handled that. And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "and the document is updated. So Thanks for that. Recently, adopted document, we have our first deer document which is adopted and at the time of adoption we changed the name to BRDE to clearly specify the name where the earlier name was beer. Only which was not very clear. So thanks the authors to take take care of that. There are comments that they need to handle. One thing Okay. I think it's fine. We can discuss that later. I'll not take more time. So working group adoption, We have a long queue. If you have, any suggestions and any things Any things have changed. And you need, for instance, code points, etcetera. You can ask, feel free to ask the chairs and give us the reason on why, your document needs to be progress faster. It needs to be a valid reasons and the chairs will discuss and see if you need to change the order as well because some of these documents have I've been there in the queue for a long time, and we wanna make progress on them as well. And that's about it. Any comments? Okay. Then I'll change the deck, and we'll go to our first presentation. However, here, I will be okay with the update of the piece application for the the IP network. So, motivation is the, firstly, you should use the object for this, working on the Getaway Bank from the expert and circumstances. So we, if there is no any question we want to, 4 data for the ISC last call."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "Here, I name briefly. The background of her solution here, there are, 2 ROCs relating to this proposal. The 1st day is cribers another and the simulation loud of the, really, make, like, know, network, the an honorary fiber, architectural, for a product year traffic engineering. Your net, you know, network network. File in the MOUTP system and the PCE based sales of control mechanics. This document, describe it, a PC, education and procedure. Participate the other such architectures. Here in the area of solutions. You know, and they rejected 1, some simple, top logic. But the solution is also suitable for the for the more complex scenarios the procedure for the solution is the two steps. First day is the built a module, dual multi system between edge router. Via the PC protocol and, advertise the second is to analyze different prefix by, different systems. Also, I look product. The sorry. The we will steer traffic by alternating and the So, after the all of the three steps, the traffic can be adjusted based on the, requirement. So here is the summary of the main update seen the working group last call. Firstly, we changed the message table from the, we changed send you the, discrete from the mesi cable to the mesi fuel top. Secondly, the way at the state of field within the PPI object tool reflect the BGP system status. Dynamically. The 3rd day that we trained the encoding and of the, PPA prop object. And the last the way and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "met eligibility in threes and sections. Here are you going to do the app app data? Well, engineers, the first, you know, from the and and and the last the the the left part of the this prediction, they use the table to describe the procedure. But they did not very clear. So, accordion for the, an command from drop, we, change the tape message table to the the message flow. A flowchart. And so it because the flowchart can reflect the time that is safe of money's messages, So this is just an example. Main procedure in our chain is just the Gasset. Diagram, changed. So we we changed all the same procedures. Low on the and the explicit root establishment and the BGP private advertisement or the similar update. No. The the second operator in the way we, train you to resolve the field within, BPI objects. With the state of the field and the and remove the tunnel software that's in the other IP address. So, will explain the letter. The 1 Huddl model needed. We use local and the payroll or just definitely, And then you already find the status, field account, in fact, the BGP system dynamic by the piece, by the PCP, PC as reported message. And, we define the newly exempted newly defined flight field for future, extendability. I know, currently only one one bit he defined"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "so, the center field within DDI object a car, the fact is, currently, we define the filed status to live, for the for the applications here are these 2 of the list So, we we can, based on this field, we can use the PCR report message. It will report the DG test and the errors. I'll I'll see or or same person, like, the BGI object. Urgess, I want to expand the tunnel mode and the draw mode, normally, we, we usually remote there are no tunnel for traffic to for traffic, but, if we enroll in the mode, the traffic from different source to the same mechanism, same mechanism, make sure same priority path. So we currently controller past more moderate we we call it the moderator traffic parts console. But if we want to shrink the con, control the recommended to use a ton more as it on the traffic and her And, network that will be handled, and the the technically, they all be diverge that to the, priority pass. Maybe you will TP the tool controller selects the server update is the PPA object. This object is mainly for the heater password. Either either passing there, you know, other, another, change it to the meaning of the a mini field of the every, every field that within object the last one is the the end of the because there is a similar with other, document with, you know, PCE"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "for the 6 discuss it briefly. The, information are harder other consideration for the management Okay. It's a all of the update. And so we think it is ready for the, I guess, last call, if there, you know, other comment on our questions. Any questions? Otherwise, I have some I'll start then. Thanks for making the update and as a shepherd, Thanks for working on those comments. It's my duty to also do a redo, a recheck. I still feel there's something's missing. That I plan to sit with you and try to resolve this week. If we go back, like, for instance, the main aim with this presentation was because there have been some of the subst some changes are a bit substantial. So we wanted to make sure that the working group have eyes on it. Before we sent these changes to to our AD where this document is note that it's post working group last call. Some of the changes are very editorial, so we don't have to worry about them. But, especially, when the encoding is changing and some this process is changing, I just wanted to make sure that people in the working group feel comfortable about this. Some comments that I had is this tunnel mode is still it's it's I feel like, you know, I'm not really sure that this is described very well. And even if we should call it a tunnel mode, So I will discuss with you and maybe we can get some opinion from other people on what's the right terminology we should use And anyway, the document doesn't talk about this in detail. So this if you say that we have a bit the pivot is set, then you are in tunnel mode. At least in this diagram, you are explaining what it is, but now the question that we have is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "is tunnel more the right way to describe this. So even in the working group, if people have thoughts on this and have a better term, These give suggestions. This is something which is at least in my mind. And taking this example as well, I feel like, you know, merging status and errors is not the best approach Like, for instance, if you look at 45, both are saying BGP session failure, but at the same time, we are all so including in the same field what are the reasons for it? I think we could make this much simpler and have a error code carried separately. And we have, in our definition, we can make both status an error code So only if the status is an error, then you can also get more information from an error code rather than overloading the status field. Just so that, like, you know, things becomes easier for us in future if you are extending this. So these are some ideas that I have. It's my duty to discuss this further. I know I apologize. I was not able to do that during this week so far, but I plan to do this with you very soon. So just to keep working group up to date, on what the efforts and authors have been. Discussing, Okay. I will, we will try to add some description for the timeline, the remote reading document and for the, error state error field, the ICT is we have considered Yeah. Otherwise, thank you for working on this. Thank you. Tanya. Stateful Internet. Next Okay. Your next Olivia, go ahead. Yes. Just a a few seconds. Okay. Hello, everybody. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "I will briefly, make a recall on, CapEx Notions for stateful So we just upload, a new release since the long, period of, inactivity this next slide? Olivier, you should be able to have control. Just try. Okay. Okay. If it doesn't work, then I'll do it. Okay. Thanks, Raul. So just a brief history the successful, and success, previous version. So since the adoption and, taking into a the main comment we we received the main modification from the original version was the adoption of binding seat, to transport the stitching level within the the piece of message, release version 3 as simple refresh or no, no more modification. And for this new, release, we had a new VPN, and intent based networking use cases. Currently showing that this could address these 2 use cases. We could also add that it's, also feed the 5 g, slicing, used cases. And, we also specify or the PC, could modify their local path in this, entire domain, chain and all we could enforce quality of services in part or or we could manage the the TC, the traffic class. So just to make a brief recall of, how it works here it is, the distributed version, but in the same graph, we also address the centralized version. And, in fact,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "at the first step, we have a standard BRPC change as per RFC V5441 to compute in their domain path, we'll follow the 68, 31, if I, remember for each parent, children see in your article mode to compute this entire domain pass. And when like, in the backward recursive path computation, we will set up recursively, the entire domain end to end path. While just because we need to stitch the different, domain And so we need to 1st start with a destination domain, requesting, the stitching label, and then we propagate the stitching label backward to the previous PC. That used, the stitching label to terminate it's local channel in order at the, peering link to correctly, carry a transport that traffic, to the system border or routers with the stitching label in order for this, system boiler routers to determine, all to continue to transport, this traffic. And so the stitching label is this, MPLS labeling indication to stitch and to, transport traffic from 1 domain, to the next domain. And we'll go this way backward up, to the source domain. Will proceed the same way with a yarkee call, pound children PCE. In fact, the pound, PCE will ask the destination domain, PC, children, and when backlog, go back to, the source domain. But instead of, direct PC to PC,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "communication, we go through, the h, parent, PC. And, what it's important Also, to, to say is that each domain is independent on over enforced. The local part of the past. So we could meet both RSVPT, segment routing, or any of our technology, to, enforced to set up this end to an, inter domain path what leak to be Clement, is the stitching label as a MPLS label at the boundary of, this a different domain. That's the only, technology, which is common between the different domain. So in term of implementation requirements, we just need to request a certain number of modification in the piece up version. We need a new PC capability to that PC is able to perform some internal behavior which is also some fences, lake from, BRPC or hashparent path computation. We need a new PCS association group just to associate the local pass in notify 2 Vincare domain identifier for management purpose when we need to modify the path, remove the path, or if there is some failure and PC restart or root or restart, to associate and, coordinate the local and the entire domain part. We need a new piece of error message course to manage, what's happened in case of in particular for the stitching of the change. And we need a new flag in the key path binding object"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "to convey the stitching label just to, request and advertise this is a stitching label, a particular path binding level. So in terms of conclusion, we proposed, to to extend the the association group to incur domain just to, be able to in the bell between, PC, PC, and PCC, across different domain. And and in order to automatically teach or nest local LSP to form this entire domain l s p channel while we keep, each domain independent on in term of technology, an operator intended to use to enforce this And in terms of applicability, so we are able to to mix the RSVP segment routine or over technology, to to to stitch this different part of a channel with target use cases, which is, internal main VPN that has internet connection 5 inches seline and intern based networking. Thanks. If you have questions, Any questions? Only way thanks for updating the document I think you have added some applicability, which is always good. Know where this extension would be used. You remember there were early discussion in the past about error handling as we have one part document which extends error handling, especially for inter domain cases, We parked that document because we did not have any of the extensions currently using it. And at that time, our thinking was that stateful inter domain this document would be an ideal use case for that. So please check that and let the working group know what do you think right now, the document is parked, but if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "you think that that's a useful procedures, we can always bring it back and progress this in the working group. Yes, sir. Yes, Frank, sir, route to to remember me the the spot. Yes. I will add for for the next release as well as we'll certainly add nimplementation section as we are currently developing this implementation based on, open delight, PC That's awesome. Always good to hear that you have. Running code as well. With respect to protocol extensions, I don't see any big change that happened But, I worry about some of the error handling parts, the relationship between PC session going down In fact, we have the next document, which is state sync, which is a synchronization between PCs, is there any impact with that. So I think a little bit more descriptions, especially about cleanup, PC session going down, and error cases, we should think a little bit more and add it because I think the core part of how distribute the stitching label. That part is clear, but the other error handling and just tightening up of Our protocol specification is something that we should work. Next Yeah. Okay. It's a, the the main purpose of this new PC association group to to help in this case and agree, we could, more detail, PC, recover inter domain path in case of failure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Wood point. Any other comments? Working group is very quiet today. Okay. Thank you. Thanks."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "Yes. Go ahead. Hello, guys. Charlie from Huawei on behalf of the orders of this draft. ITFPC stays synchronization. It Okay. So here's the quick, summary of the current state. This draft was adopted in, 2021. And that that the last presentation was in that meeting. Right? And and right now, I think the draft is almost ready for the Wokigu Glasgow because it is well written. And what does the draft describe? Many it describes something like, PCC, how to establish a multiple session between the PCC to, multiple PCEs, and how to establish the, connections between PCEs, right? So, you also describe some need of the mechanisms between, PCC and PCE. Synchronizations. Yep. So this is a quick recap basically, you can pay attention to two, a spot first one is about how to create into a Pce, state for Pce session and synchronization. So you you can you can an an see the, extension the ARSP states between PCEs. Right? And the second part is about, supporting the primary and separate secondary relationship between the PCEs. Right? And it is clearly that, how to set how to set set up the priority is out of the scope of this draft. It's based on. And and and and it depends on your requirements. Right? So Yes. What we have done, in protocol,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "in this draft, mainly we'd have to find that extension of, capability advertisement and, statement, the synchronization in both direction between PCEs, right? And how the the mechanism of how to make 10 ARSP states from, multiple sources. Also, the the extension of using the ARSP be a version to maintain the the the the latest stage. So the decision of priority setting and suburb. Delegation. Yep. Yep. And Yeah. We believe that this draft is ready for working Kubla School. So if you have any comments, welcome now, Thank you. Comments. Going once, going twice. Thank you. Thanks for your work. And hopefully, when we have working with last call, the folks in the room will support it. So we are moving to, the segment routing, part of our topic always an interesting part. So let's give you some news. I mean, first in person meeting. Hello. I'm Samuel Sibelaf from Cisco, and I will as I think as an algorithm, a draft on behalf of our office. So why we introduced the the draft, basically, before the draft was introduced, there was no way to to and pulled as that I'll probably between PCC and PC allow going our great moving individual seats. And, there was also no way to constrain the part with the algorithm the operators, so there was no way to compute, for example, for example, but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "the draft is covering all the arguments all the that I'll break in this room. IGP So SPF state the SPF and Exelvo and other high level motivation for the degree to, to, decrease the, the size of the segment is as well. You know, the VJIs that she ever received was So how we solve it? So to, to be able to encode the Xarelcollitin intensive especially the the is that all great? Of the seats, being extended as a yellow and as 60 arrow in the algorithm field and the flag to indicate if the algorithm field is included or not. Then the second part is about, about, as our Constaint. So we introduced as an algorithm deal. An LSPA object, with multiple flags to control the behavior. So, there is possibility applied that adjust filter seats gets most useful for algovira algoone. And then the second part is about the flexible potential mix. So we're just following the rules from the from the So, mostly done in the same way how RGP is doing the part completion for the So for, for example, doing topology training based on the note participation doing the deposit running based on the application specific thing that I use and just doing the part completion based on the local, based on the constants for non flexible definition and also the metric that transfers all the definition. So, for example, the metric that which is ACU in PCA product is not really used. It's ignored. And then I take that from what our definition is used Oh, and to to basically align, the the metrics types from IGP with metric types from visa had doing through this new metric that's a piece of, and that's basically the last"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "engine, currently in the draft. Which is introducing the minimum latency. Metric type, for both, for the point to point and point to multi point. But Now to the actual changes, we get some signs last night if So, basically, that shouldn't changed 0.8to0.5, and the cut points, but I'll get it for almost or complaint which I'll cover the thing that they have. Maybe it's sent to us, is that a basic part because of the dependency on Azure ASIC stuff. Segment that I think I did the 6 draft. Which hasn't allocated the legislation in Indiana yet. So because of that, it was not possible to allocate this IV 6 framework, it got pointed And we reduce number of quarters to 5, about basically a 1 week with the requirements, there'll be stable. So no other strange weapon signs then, no other comments whether I see you sign them. So I would like to ask if I can go with anybody who's available existing implementation. So we can, we can turn them into the draft I know about one implementation in Cisco, which is done using vendor specific object and experimental equip points, like, in up the Devon. Implementation will be updated, to follow very simply allocated cut points as well. And then, if the if you will have all the required, implementations and it allocation for the ASIC code points will be done. I would I would, like to ask for the last call. That did it from my side. So any any comments and interviews that'll come regarding this working group last call after, I don't think so you need to worry about after. There is no requirement per se that, like,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "all code points needs to be early allocated, then only we can send it. It's fine. SRV 6 document is also with John itself. So Hopefully, that would be done And then if needed, we will apply for it. Otherwise, we can send it to the with some of them some of them not only allocated. So don't worry that it needs to, be it after. Okay. That's It can be done in parallel. All not at all. That's even better. Yeah. But, folks who have implementation on this last time, there was a lot of discussion. So I was hoping there will be more open implementations for this. So please reach out to authors so that we can add it in our implementation section. Yep. So feel feel free to really, contact me either directly. And if there is any head of going based on, I can I can't wait to adapt So, we think that it's almost ready for working class call? No pending comments. Perfect. Thank you. Okay. There are no other comments. Thank you very much. The first comments gets a beer. Thank you. Alright. The point to point to multipoint policy. So I I don't have a there there was a slide in PIM that I kind of presented kind of show where the other drafts are at just FYI when it comes to the replication segment in the screen. That one is actually, becoming a a RFC. And that's the mother draft. So after that draft, you will see a bunch of other drafts get becoming last call and becoming RFC is. Obviously, we are working very hard on the piece of part."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "We made some changes. I'm not gonna go into the bits and bytes. So I think you guys can read the draft. But, I'm gonna go from high level what's happening here. So the first thing that is, happening is when it comes to the candidate paths where which they are very, similar to unicast. For multicast, you need some kind of a global optimization. Because the tree is from the root all the way to the leaves Most of the multicast trees, they kind of do global optimization of entire tree and then they do a make before break. On the head end. And that's why when it comes to the Canada pet, unlike unicast, we added what we call the path instances under So the pack instance is really the LSP or the tree itself And previously, we only had 2 pad instances, but now we are making the number to be open. As many as you kind of want the rest of the stuff are the same, so I'm not gonna go too much into it for the sake of time. But one thing that we changed because of the fact that these path instances are now and number is on the open object. We can actually signal the number of pack instances. What that means is that some l m implementations, they might not wanna use the path instances. They just wanna say that the Canada path they can put 0 in there. Or if they wanna use the path instances, they can put you know, 1, 2, 3, whatever the number is, And if you have a 0 path instance, then perhaps global optimization is not for you. As you will see, you might have to do local optimization that's the next slide. So that's number 1. The second number is that, as it comes to one of the RFCs that we're talking about different type of leave types. There were 5 lead type. I cannot remember the RFC."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "Leave type 1 and 2. You could have actually add a leaf or remove the leaf. But lift type 5, you could have free ride the entire leaf list. Those are the only 3 leaflets we're gonna support for point to multi private policy. And again, depending on the PSAP, you need signal whether you can want to touch meaning to add or remove one leaf at a time. Or a certain leaves, or whether you wanna override the entire leaf that's part of the open message signaling as well. So I already kind of touched on this one, the fact that if the number of path instances is 0 in some of the, implementations, to make it more closer to unicast. Then you cannot do global optimization after 3. Because you only have one candidate, pad, And then really when it comes to the 3, if there's a failure, you need to do local optimization, you need to re signal your entire tree with update message with the same instance ID and the candidate path and, you know, optimize the tree locally. As you will see in the draft, how That will work. That will work. That will work. Now when it comes to the again, if your, implementation does multiple insensors. Because now we support any number of instances. You need to say which instance is active. Which one is not active. So we actually added a bunch of pets into the the policy itself. That when you're downloading these path instances, you can actually specifically specifically say via the flag which one is active and which one is a standby. So the next thing is, obviously, when it comes to unicast slicing is big, you know, 5g, 6g, all these, mobile backhaul"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "they talk about the slicing and 3 seed is something that, is becoming very attractive in the broadband type of services when it comes to the 5g6g IPTV, downloading, all these wonderful shows to the to the modems that are 5g, 6g capable. And, you know, a slicing is very important. So, we are trying to bring a slicing into three seat. We are working to figure out whether a slicing is a pimsy, a provider tunnel, is running on a slice, or each candidate path gonna run on that slice. So that's beside the point. We'll figure that out. But basically what that meant that, is that for the CCI object, we are gonna use the segment routing CCI app object, which has all these Flex Algo and MTIDs in there to create different slicing for Canada path. Or the PIMCs throughout the network. So that's the next change we added to this, to the draft. Last but not least, Again, there is a lot of work going on, so you will see a lot of sharing in the draft within the next there or so. Right now, it's fine tuned for MPLS. We are getting a lot of attraction for SRV 6 as well. That's why the replication segment actually includes SRS 6 and, you know, the pin draft, they all include service We are thinking that maybe for the SRV 6, we need a separate draft this is going to be only MPLS just because We are under a lot of pressure to bring it into the into the market and into the the hands of our customers. So that's another thing to think about, But, yeah, there will be a lot of changes coming up and cleaning up of the draft the way the add, the packets, and stuff like that. I know the the the chairs have popped me a couple of them. I do apologize that they have time point that up."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "But, yeah, that's it. Comments questions, please. Hi. I'm Adrian Farrell. I'm mainly doing this to get the the beer from Drew. Yeah. Thank you. I I wondered about objective functions, the the original point to multi point, PCE thing, define 2 objective functions for, I think the shortest path optimization and at least costs, I think, do you foresee any, the need for any other objective functions for for s r or is a is a point to 90 point tree, a point to 90 point tree. Yeah. So that that's a good question. This being a controller based, I kind of foresee that lot of providers gonna look at latency too. So I think that's going to be. So one of the issues that we are beginning see a lot. When it comes to the streaming, like Amazon, like, Apple, is that I literally seen this myself. You have two bars. I cross the street from each other, And one bar starts cheering and the other bar is, like, you know, what what just happened. They they hear the other bar, and they have no idea what happened until 1 minute later. I mean, we've seen 2 minutes of delay. When it comes to the latency of some of these streaming and minutes later, they're like, oh, okay. Somebody escort and they see what happened. There is a lot of, in the multicast world, there is a lot of business being lost because of this unicast streaming and the fact that nobody figures out the latency of the, of the path of the unique acid streams. So I I would imagine, you know, latency would be another"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "another thing that has to come in But since this is, I I guess the the short answer is since this is like, significantly control driven we can add all these trans as they become needed throughout the Yeah. I mean, I guess that you know, the PCE implementation can do whatever it wants for its computation. And the the question is that the the Institute is asking to create the path which, of course, may be living very, very close next door to the PCE. Or wrong way way. It's what type of path does that mean to? To us. Well, anyway, we can we can Yeah. Definitely. Can I have the beer in the, bar that gets for streaming with lower latency, please? The PC has noted your request. Thanks. Just a few comments from my side as well. So, if you may check, it's shortest part 3 and minimum cost 3. And, of course, like, that's just the way how we are computing the tree. You can also specify the metric. So you can have short history and I care about the metric as latency And that's this part is supported by P7, of course, available for SR as well. So my comment was fee with the terminology a little bit, and I'm I'm also not an expert in this. I wanted maybe Pavan or, folks from RSVP sites because even in your document, you mentioned that you are borrowing the term instance ID from RFC 3209. And I got super confused when I went there. To look for that reference. And even as a working group, we need to decide if he go back to the figure here, that we are okay with this, candidate part and then only for P2MP having a concept path instance, one path instance, and inside a candidate path"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "I felt this a little bit achy when I was reading only because we already have and normal B2 PSR policy, which also has a candidate part, but that uses segment list, and a list of segment lists. So I am not completely opposed to it, but I want us to make this decision after thinking so that it doesn't complicate are further extensions in future. So if working group agree that part instance is clear, That's fine. What I don't understand is the reasoning that's given in the document is because of RSVPT, and where I got lost a little bit. So we should discuss this a little bit more. Yeah. Actually, to be honest with you, my memory going back, like, 2 years ago when we started this. I thought the instance we came up, maybe that's the wrong in the draft. I need to look at I thought we came up with the instance as part of the tree seed itself. I don't remember us borrowing it from anywhere, but good point. If that's in the draft, I'll I'll definitely We have it everywhere. Like, for instance, even in our distinct we use the word number of instance, everywhere. This is what we are talking about. So this instance is the right word or not, or not That's what I'm worried about Okay. But I just to make sure that Drew, you understand So the way that we identify a tree right now is 3 ID root ID and the instance. Understand. Okay. Alright. So it's it's I'm completely fine with the design. It's just the term Yeah. That that's one. We can different Alright. Thank you. And, just one more when we talk about slicing, I think let's be very careful. Picep, let's talk in terms of flex algo, empty ID, that you wanna support the the realization techniques that we have for slicing rather than say in our document that like, you know, this is the extension for slicing. Just so that it's very clear that you are anyway using empty ID and flex algo as a mechanism, we will focus on that rather than Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "Like, you know, the marketing works and, like, you know, we are doing for this Understood. Thank you. We have one more. Yeah. Charlie from Huawei. I I I read the draft and I find that it is a little bit difficult, complicated for me. So to have any implementation to you now, Oh, yeah. Both us and other renders we have of the piece piece of itself. No, this is the part that we are implementing right now. So until now, the implementation has been via CLI. And, you know, other vendors, they have their own proprietary pizza. Part of it. But now, this is the part that we are trying to get the entire truth into the same implementation. Okay. So I would recommend you to add a section of implementation status. Dip, dip, I mean, as soon as we start going to the last call at different Okay. Thank you Dixie. Thank you. I saw Adrian joining. I'm leaving the queue. Is that on purpose? That you're on the animal. Okay. Mobile. Okay. So now let's move to the last sections that we have last three slides. So Sean. It just It's one slide, so maybe quick. This is, basically to talk about the working group last call comments that we got on this draft. You'll note the the title change, but I'll get to that in a second. Alright. So the working group last call ended in September. We have comments from Andrew Stefan in Chengley. Wanna thank them for their comments because it resulted in some pretty big changes. The kind of consistent things, comment we got was like, hey. The name of this document not specific enough. You need to say what you're actually updating. Okay. Well, great. So I thought about that for a while because I was like, well, clearly, we're just updating the document. We didn't see more. But anyways, and everybody else said, hey, you need to add the security cases for our"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "CA 253 in the security considerations document because it's the one you're updating okay, and I totally do that. Then I got Steph Khan's comments, and it took me a little while. Because he basically asked a bunch. I want, I want to thank him first comments because the document better, I think. Was pretty much like, well, what are you really changing? It's already in a 253. Thanks. What's different. And the more I thought about it, not much. There's a section in there that talks about, you know, connection establishment restrictions. And that's all we're really updating. It's like, 2 bullets. So I put that in the title. So that's the the then the title, the it up about multiple comments and make title more explicit. Basically, put that exactly in the title of what we're updating and made the text about all we're updating is this particular section, and we're adding 2 bullets. And so know, what are we doing? We're adding restrictions to specify, you know, what PC EPS implementations do if they support more than 1 version of TLS. So if you do TLS 1 point 2 until it's 1.3. You you basically try to prefer the older ver the the newer version. Sorry. And, Again, Stephan was kinda like, hey, you know, this, this 8253 document already says what algorithms to pick. Why are you saying anything? At least right. So we just drop it. And so the only other thing that's really going on is, like, what what to do with, TLS 1.3 is early data. And, again, we don't wanna use just said, don't use it. So this document got shorter and more specific. So which is great, but it changed pretty it changed a lot. So the question for the chairs is, should you run another working group last call to you know, revalidate that the the changes actually are sufficient and, you know, address the commoners because it's it was a pretty big change. And again, I think what happened was I got very fixated on maintaining alignment with the NetBot or the NetcoF document and completely lost the force for the tree. I was trying to maintain alignment. And so again, when I got Stephane's comments, I was like, well, what really changed? And then talking with Russ drew basically, we're like, we don't need to maintain alignment. We should do what's right for this group for this document and hence the changes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "So I guess the the question is, I think I'm done. It could progress, but I I don't know if the the, working group chairs feel that it should, they should do it again because we made significant changes to it. It's Adrian. I'll leave the chair to answer that one. I just wanted to say, Sean, Thank you. Because you know, the getting the security clue into a a working group like this is is really hard. And you've done the difficult bit, which is understanding what we're trying to do. And and applying the securities. So thank you. Mean, you should think that one of the chairs would basically, you know, drag me in here, but, yeah, like, I basically had to, like, get a different way of thinking about it. And so the working group last call you know, worked exactly as it should have. I'm the guest, so you have to take Well, I think it doesn't have to to restart a a quick, working school if you feel like it. We we can check that the working group agrees with the change at at least if we will draw attention on the later sessions, maybe, a short one will be but There is no harm in doing it. I have no problem. If you feel like it, Abs absolutely. Absolutely. then I don't see any reason not to do it. So Awesome. So the version that's in the data tracker is ready to go for the working group last call and hit the buttons and send the email also. So we're ready to go. Okay. Great. Thank you very much. Thank you. I'll give you go ahead. Alright. Thank you, Mister Artem, ma'am. I will present it remotely. Thank you. Are they strapped to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "analyze the past com computation extension requirements for backgroundity transport network. Can oh, I can control this. Thank you. The transport technology is is potentially the TDM based, OTM, and I'm here. Technologies are both moving towards the great hard slices. That means, fact granularity bandwidth, uh-tenows I totally has, launched a series of recommendations, into this kind of, technology is called FCM OTM and FCOMTM. The data plan recommendations are expanding to concern by theendofthisyear. So this document focuses on the requirements for past communication and control. And, a proposed to expand the PCE to meet the factory transport requirement This slide, introduce some development for the Vigrade transport. A background to meet the some service requirements for the vertical industry and dedicated this kind of service, they have high requirements, higher isolation, security, and reliability. But with the smaller bandwidth, the bandwidth is less than the traditional audience. For example, the audio Flex, its minimum runway says, one part 25 gigabytes, but this kind of services, it may be several megabates. So the Factory PDM technology, you can provide the flexible, the minimum time magazine bandwidth granted for the high isolation. No. I have the option and I have the option they have already a service recommendation I killed here. So for the future,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:03",
    "text": "Fegree transport channel con conditions, how to effectively perform end to end parts, computation, and controller are important fix, for the new technology, we think there are 3 some challenges for the part of documentation. Let's figure out, we give you the example of the network, how to use the FCO team connection, we can see that the Fc connections can be flexible set up between the client remote sensor. Or between the client remote side, to the client hand corner. So the number of 5gtdM channels were significantly increased compared with the traditional channels For example, one audio tool channel can support up to 900 more than 900 at the European Connections. So for one device with a switching capability maybe several therapies for one device, it can support a factory channel connections of tens of 1000 of this number. The second challenge is according to the service requirements, the factory passes may treat frequently and dynamically. Stay 12? A factory channel, maybe provided for 1 certain CPR or ethernet service for 1 site. So when the services start or end, or it's bandwidth changing all the service dedicated That patient note changes. They will cause the changes in the great TDM channels. So we think compared with optical networks, a factory transport network, massive faster and more flexible past state population and update have come up abilities. And we think the centralized model of PCE, architecture, and PCEPS suitable for this kind of requirement."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "For the functions, they may included functions, factory parts, setups, resource management, the past update, the removal. And the service awareness and mapping tools that channels at the PE nose. So we think the piece of needs to be extended to meet these requirements. The past calculation request to reply update report, is that sack messages should consider to cut case some new information to specify the factory channel attributes. For example, to include the factories reaching capability type, several layer type, the factory, channels they use, they utilize the time slots information. And the client ID and, maybe the regularity pass protection type and so on. And the protocol and signal issue part of the application to set up an update to remove and, resolve manufacturer functions. That's all. This draft in many proposal requirements and maybe the specific extension we're preparing to submit in the future. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Thank you for the presentation. So here, as far as I understood, there are some new data plane that are specified in the ITOT. So we were wondering with how much of this work has been discussed within the CCAMP Working Group typically, what has been achieved using the piece of extension so far was to align on gmplsregistries So whatever we do here, we need to do it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "in coordination with CCamp. So I don't know what is your plan to talk with CCamp about, requesting some cut points switching capabilities or encoding types or whatever will be decided. With CCamp, do you have any schedule or draft ready for that for this meeting, we we also we also to request the, time slot in cab, but they didn't have available time slots for presentation. But there are I will already set the draft to do that soon. To Redwalk Group. Thank you. Okay. So in that case, I encourage you to trigger on the second place on keep the the PC walking group aware of the, you know, come of those discussion. Okay. I will, continue to discuss with you at Group. Thank you. Thank you. Any question from the floor from the room? Okay. So thank you. Everybody. This is Luis from Telefonica. I would present that initial draft. With the intention of of using the PC, for, considering the precision availability 6 So Let me go for that. So the motivation is that strong communication services present performance requirements, especially in terms of service level objectives. And examples of that could be the the liberal slice in the staff, working out in, in this, or the deterministic services being working out in, in that net. So it's just more than a simple metric characterization. So it's a characterization of metrics, whether we threshold that could be,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "pass and and then creating degradation on the service. So, IPPM working group is being defined in this performance availability fix. There is a a draft that is progressing in the working group. For doing that. And, and these, metrics are used for the finding and monitoring. There's a loss associated to a So, coming back to PCE, in, in the case of PCE, we can compute or select the paths based on metrics, that can represent an amount or a maximum. This is, possible today. The definition of of the metric, object in MPC. And in such a way, consider this mound or this maximum, so how we are forcing the, or we are taking into consideration for the selection or or or or the compute computation of the past, that the the value of the metric should be, less or equal to that, boundary. But this, actually applied to to this characterization in terms of SLOs. So this is why we are somehow proposing to to extend that, metric object in order to consider this pandemic. Also, because the the method that is, taking into consideration for the calculation for the computation represents the current behavior observed in the network, but, somehow we are forgetting the history. Of how this, potential path has been, behaved in the past. So this is Why? Because, this is be be why we consider that could be in important to having to consolidation these metrics. So, just a few words about the the purchase availability metrics in in these metrics. Is the definition, the, the concept of the bio editing interval which is a, an interval in which we observe out the gradation of a given parameter. And this degradation of the rated interval is a interval is against an optimal, threat Okay? Similarly, they defined the silver, evaluated interval. With, in this case, when we pass the critical, a critical threshold. Are from these 2 metrics that arrive, to radios, evaluated interval radio,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "that considers the violating intervals and the severe violated intervals. And this early viral different grades, the same levels, of degradation in, in the, in the service. So the extension that we are proposing is as follows. So we depart, the metric object being defined in NRC5440. Is what you can see on the top the left. And with that, we consider the following 2 character or, I mean, to consider as a new type of metrics paramedic or precision availability metric. And then we see that field that will be represented on the top, on the right. Then I start defining the the specific metrics that could apply to this bank capitalization. So we've for instance, you can see there are a field a label as metric that could consider latency or packet notes or whatever. Then the, in the case of the, that this is a low follows, I I said this distribution, the indication of the statistical behavior on the function that represent the statistical distribution, for instance, CF, or histogram or these kind of things. And then the units of the metric and the term internal units as well. The availability period in, in line with the artifacts that we defined in this draft and the tires that define the statistical devolution of the of the metric. Also, we con we consider the violated interval rate on the violated interval radio. That will be the actual metrics that will be it check. Again, it's for the competition of the past. And the different thresholds that could apply even if we have the statistical distribution for the SLO in in terms of histogram and so that will be represented by the figure at the bottom on on the left. Or you just we are simply just considering an optimal threshold and a critical threshold that will be you can see at the bottom on on the right. So, just for illustrating the discussion of the histone, the statistical distribution. So this is a histogram of different, with different tires, for instance, here,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "and in different latencies, Mine less than 50012 Yeah. 0.512 milliseconds, 1 millisecond to millisecond, and so then what will be represented if we, the the samples that we can collect from the metrics options here in the past exceed the the levels defined in the histogram. So that would rise violation in terabytes and, and, and so the point is if we can't characterize the links, the parts in in this manner, at the time compute in the past, we can, check the, requested violation interval radios and severe viral you read, separately, by your written interval videos, against this, histogram that is requested that the surface has been tested the customer expects. So just, finalizing the next steps for us will be but released the 1 person who was released this morning because we required to fix some missing information in in 00 that is, having also included in the presentation, and we would like to collect feedback from the working group group to to check if this is interesting or not if, it's a could be relevant for for PC group. And then our ideas to prepare a new version for next that that's all for my sake. Thank you. Thank you. So I see Samuel joining the queue. Maybe maybe just comment about the metric type extension. So isn't metric object of fixed length? Yeah. This is what I was checking as well. I believe it is. So it means that it can't be the metric object as defined in 5440. It would have to be a new cut point as a city to that object. Even if she resume, you will really the encoding there. That that It can be the metric already. Already existing. Okay. If I understand in the document, what they are saying is we define a new metric object"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "tight. So right now, they this is what we have done in some other cases as well. But book book I don't think this is the best way to do this Best way would be to have a generic sort of like an extended metric object type and then inside type, we can come up with, like, you know, various different time types and TLVs. So that we solve this problem in one go. Rather than if in future there is another metric type that doesn't fit in into 32 Bets Week. Connect another object type. Right? So we should solve this in one go this thing. Correct. Yeah. Thank you. Another another thought that I had was I haven't read the IPPM draft, so maybe it's more better described there. But especially the use cases from are a part of the world. As in with their am I using this with SR policy? Am I using this with, some kind of, bot network what use cases where we usually see PC deployed put this kind of metric will be useful. That will give me a very good idea of, yeah, there is a motivation to do that. Right now, it feels like because IPPM has those metrics Eason should also have it. So instead, like, in our world, how is this useful that would be very good. To add add Okay. Sure. So we will work on on having that explanation. Thank you. Any other comments? What is it in the queue? Yes. Just one questions. If I correctly understand, the goal is to address sort of closed loop mechanism with a possibility to recompute automatically a path or change a path in case of, duration. And why Do you need this interval ratio and threshold n y do you not directly recompute a path in case of delay constraint, for example,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:03",
    "text": "are not met. If, for example, in the original request, a path is asking for not more than 20 milliseconds delay and twin delay. You compute the path which computed value of 12 milliseconds at a certain moment because your network, parameter change, etcetera, you have some link that appear in the networks, to run passes. Per office. Constraint. 20 milliseconds, and then you could decide to reconfuse the bus. Why do you need this violation ratio, violation in in Javal, and not a trigger immediately, pathway computation. Yeah. A good question. The the point here to have a, take into account the historical behavior of the the the the samples that we have getting in a in a given metric. So we can start collecting this is how linked with the closed loop automation that you were commenting before. So, if we can keep an historical, register of how the in the past has been behaving along the time, we can check that with the ratios that can be expressed in the PC request. Recopetition in case of problems could be also possible as as a subsequent step. Let's say once the the path has been already computed and so that this would be Essentially, a link with the the idea of of of selecting or computing the path against the historical behavior that has been observed So not not only let's say the instant perception that you can get for now, a metric collected right now, but we'll be the behavior around the time or in other words, two different parts that have the same metric right now, probably have, have had an historical different historical behavior, if the service requires on a specific SLO"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:04",
    "text": "can choose between the the more adequate, path according to the history. Okay. Thanks. Thank you. Last comments, make sure everyone, they have scanned the QR code, I see that the number on the meter was less, and I might be more people in the room. So just make sure that you have scanned the QR code. And any last words? Thank you for attending. See you next time. Enjoy 6 minutes we have given you back. Thank you key. So, is this the roofing area? Same room?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:16",
    "text": "Oh, Sorry. I really did not change to be there. Yeah. So I'll I'll be Okay?"
  }
]
