[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "a minute more until it's like 5 30 now i guess yep it is you want to start off bernie no you you you do it go ahead all right i'll do this one welcome everyone philly ietf 114 this is the dhep working group here's the ietf notewell if you haven't seen it by thursday you're lucky i guess please take a look at it and please read it if you don't recognize it and follow all the rules in it um additionally we ask that you uh keep your mask on if you're not presenting or actively drinking doing any of those things everyone's been doing a great job this week so keep that up no well blue sheets so if you're in the room there's a there was a qr code it's gone now but there's a qr card please um if you're in the room physically just go to the on-site tool click on it and mark yourself as here that gives us accurate counts for who's here um note takers bernie's agreed to start him off and i'll be filling in when he's presenting but additionally there's the markdown hedge doc notes feel free to add your own notes as we go through we'll clean them up at the end and zulup is and jabber is kind of like a merged thing now so if you're in the meat echo tool there's a little chat bot it shows up very nicely so um feel free to use that and i'm tim and bernie's remote hanging out with us from from lovely new hampshire hi there i hope everybody's doing well and i i also want to uh welcome tim because i think this is the first working group meeting we've had since you've been chair is that correct or am i misremembering no you're actually right this is the first one i've chaired i didn't even think about that it seems like an ian"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "ago now it does and you know i i don't know whether uh tomek is around but uh you know we miss homek and uh wish him well um and thank him for his many years of service as a co-chair so with that i'll hand it back to you awesome thanks bernie so this is our agenda for today we've got a little bit of the normal stuff going on the chair slides um we're going to talk a 8415 to internet standard is our second bernie's going to take that one and we've got distributed sr6 locators by dhcp self-registering registering self-generated ipv6 addresses is our fourth one and then we're going to talk a little bit about net next steps at the end so i'll do this one bernie since you're going to talk a lot in a minute so our current working group status is we don't have any working group documents at the moment we finally got the yang model through after some trials and tribulations thanks to ian i don't know if he's online but ian did a lot of work for that to get that over the hump um but we did get it over we have two related documents today that we're gonna talk about both of them are on the agenda so that's good um milestones we currently have and bernie's going to talk a little bit more about this is 2023 and march of 2023 for um what to do what we think the working group is going to do going forward um does anyone have anything they want to change about any of this stuff any of the agenda or any comments on that seems pretty straightforward okay um then bernie do you want me to share the slides from here sure yeah if you can do that i can all right the floor is yours okay so we'll talk a little bit about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "advancing uh dhcp v6 to internet standard um can i advance the slides no i guess you'll do it okay so um the motivation for advancing uh dhcp v6 to enter its standard from what it currently is which is proposed um is really because of the charter and the charter that we uh did many years ago uh we figured it was a worthwhile endeavor to do and that was also the reason we wrote rc 84 15 which really consolidated the base specification from the you know three core documents 3315 and the two others you know the iapd and stateless uh plus a few others into a totally new document but you know we always have the choice to uh leave it as proposed but i'm going to go on the assumption that the working group is interested in doing that the work to move it to enter its standard because we are pretty close so next slide the requirements for an internet standard document is really um four key criteria uh there are at least two independent interrupting inter-operating implementations with widespread deployment and successful operational experience there are no errata against the specification that will cause a new implementation to fail to interoperate with deployed ones there are no unused features in the specification that greatly increase implementation complexity and four if the technology required to implement the specification requires patented or otherwise controlled"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "technology then the set of implementations must demonstrate those two independent separate and successful uses of the licensing process so let's go through each of those to uh indicate where we are today um you know we i think there's no uh disagreement that we have lots of independent implementations that are interoperating today you know pretty much we have things from cable modems to home gateways to routers to servers to laptops even quite a few handheld devices you know mobile devices and things like that um all seem to be able to interoperate and work and you know do the ghp v6 standard um you know everybo everything appears to operate well from both the previous usg v6 testing that was done at um the unh interoperability lab and previously at cable labs uh field deployments like comcast's broadband service which is ipv6 based and also uh things like the itf midi network offers dhp v6 so i think we have quite a lot of good implementations and have no issue with that we do have three reported errata and you know we do have some unused features uh that could be argued to add some complexity complexity such as the iata um we have no updated by that i could find but that might be something to to look through a little bit more carefully and obviously there's no ipr that's been filed or that anybody has claimed um regarding rc 8415 or its predecessors that i am aware of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "um and has been reported to the ietf um you know there could be some issues in the documentation in in the standard uh that we might not have had reported um you know if anybody is aware of any please file on rada asap the mailing list i did do a quick sort of scan of it does seem to have one minor item and that is that there was no reference to rc 7943 which is in you know in section 13.1 which talks about address predictability and you know algorithms to use to select addresses and i think that was just a timing issue because while we were sort of you know head down and and writing the documentation we missed you know updating rc 3315 and its friends to 8415 we kind of asked that this came out and uh should have been included so that's a pretty minor thing just add another reference um let's quickly go through the errata because those are potentially sticky items um one is just a typo where section six is missing and closing parenthesis i don't think that causes any interoperability issues um and depending on what we do if we do a 8415 biz and if we drop temporary addresses the section would disappear anyway so it might be a non-issue to begin with um and we do have another type o in section 1838 which uses the word client instead of server you know it's like it's talking about what the server does and it says the client generates a packet well no it meant the server generates a packet i think it's easily understood to be a typo and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "probably is not that um significant yes it should be fixed and you know we'll do that should we need to um then we have this errata which is a bit more involved um and this is an inconsistency as to whether survey server unicast can be used by information request messages um and it it seems like the intent was that they could and so there are a couple sections that have uh some incorrect list of messages where you know information request message should be removed or or included um and um there's also an inconsistency as to whether server unit test option can be used in a reconfigure message um so that would be another one uh to to look at there was some discussion on the mailing list about this issue and you know this could arguably cause some interoperability issues although i'm not sure that it really has to to date but you know if a client were to use a server unicast uh in an information request and the server disallowed it then obviously the server is going to probably send back a malformed or dropped the packet and therefore you know no progress would be made by the client to to get an answer to its information request so this one probably does require a correction and that would be done through a biz document um and then you know we have the this kind of came up during the 8415 discussions about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "should we deprecate the iata since most clients never really use it and you know it it kind of has it you know with with most things being you know if monitoring is being done it's probably using the prefix the slash 64 or something like that and so the address itself doesn't really matter that much when a client can always just go ask for another address if it wanted to to anyway um you know there is one subtle distinction between an iana and iata because an ia ta should not be put in dns for example so if dns updates are being performed by a server it should not be doing an update for an iata so this is a discussion that we need to have in the working group as to whether we should deprecate this or or not um you know the other question is are there any other things in the document that might be considered uh to obsolete you know we did obsolete some things from 3315 and i don't think there's anything else but it is a question next slide so as i kind of mentioned on errata likely the router likely requires a document update um you know we'll we'll start with the co-authors of 8415 biz assuming that the working group does want to proceed with this work um to to start putting together the 8415 biz document depending on how what the response is or if somebody has a really strong desire to become involved um you know that might be something that the the remaining co-authors consider um in working on the biz documents and who"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "who would be included the the work is fairly small to integrate the errata um you know removing the iata temporary addresses is likely a bit messy i mean it's pretty straightforward but there's you know there's quite a few places where uh the text would get some sort of changes you know i think there's also an opportunity to shorten the document which might a little bit more powerful for the iesg you be when they have to go review this and and or you know the other uh people within the itf that need to review this document um you know we can uh remove a lot of the motivation for the original rfc 8415 um you know the some of the appendices were fairly large because we made a lot of changes and documented all those changes and obviously now we would just document what is new to 8415 bids from 8415. you know one of the goals is to be very careful to minimize the changes though because that will make our job as a working group to review the document uh much simpler you know when you look at the diffs you'll you'll be able to say yeah you know i can see that the you know the either i were corrected and other things were done so this is my straw for you know a what i think is a fairly aggressive but doable schedule and that would be to publish an updated you know biz 8415 biz document a zero zero version of it uh before the november uh ietf deadline um you know again it's it's not a lot of things to do but there are a few area a few things that we the working group and the authors need to discuss about what do we do uh both for fixing the errata and for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "like removing the iatas um you know the working group needs to do a good job at reviewing the document because hopefully we can complete that um a couple of months you know two months later and then um publish uh the updated document by the art the march itf deadline to submit it to the isg one other thing is that i i you know tim is a co-author i'm a co-author um and so we'll likely need to find um a shepherd as the co-chairs will be involved with the document but i'll leave that up to the a.d uh to decide and maybe one of the ads would even be willing to to shepherd the documents so the the first big question is do we go for it do people think it's worth advancing this to internet standard so i don't know if you want to take a a straw poll tim in the room to see and don't we have we have a voting tool don't we here yeah i'm putting one up show of hands tool yep i'm working on it okay should have been doing that earlier okay a pretty good response yeah okay so i i think that's definitely an indication i mean obviously we're going to go to the list with this but i think that's a sign that people are interested in doing this yeah and i don't know is everybody in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "the room there or is that just a online participant okay it's both yeah that's how it works um we do have somebody wanting to come to the queue okay hi mike ackerman my question is about iata and with the focus on security which that is intended to do i think why would it be a good idea to take that out now and i know you're going to say nobody's using it but the folks that we use the most would be enterprises like myself and we're not doing anything in ipv6 yet but when we do this could be important so i guess that's my question well and and that is really the the debate um it does add a little bit complexity and since you know its usage has been found to be almost zero i microsoft has at one point was using it i don't know whether they're uh still doing so um so you know i mean maybe that's uh you know that's a discussion that the working group should have is do we know of implementations out there using it or do we know of people potentially interested in you know now or in the future in using it yeah obviously go ahead i was going to say the case i'm making isn't for anybody using it i'm saying some of us might use it in the future and i know that's not a very strong statement but it's all i got right now right okay just my two cents thank you thanks i'm going to close that poll okay so uh let me see suresh come on up oh yeah but that's not gonna"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "change okay thank you uh so bernie just couple of things um i think um one of the things i'm really worried thanks so one of the things is really like you know this is like a really long process and and uh if you're going through with this i think there's like some other stuff we need to look at so there's a couple of things that kind of caught my eye right like you know like some of the late rfcs right like you know seoul max rt and stuff like that right is somebody using it right like i think tim you would know best like among all the people right so maybe it also go over like a lot of the when i say newer like probably like last 10 years right like all the stuff that came out right like you know bulk lease query stuff right yeah to see well so yeah so the vocalist query just to say is that's a separate rfc and dot covered in the base 8415. but things like the information um sorry the the solicit refresh timer and things like that those are in there and yes we do i i do know that there are devices out there using that and you know they they seem to to work okay so yeah but yeah i think we need to you know i think tim um may have some some to say about the usg v6 stuff because some of the testing there on the new uh dhcp v6 8415 work uh focuses on some of that additional testing yeah so i'll talk a little bit about this and kind of make a plug for my friends at the unh iol so what we've you know the ready logo has a new dhcp logo we're working on we put it out for public review i said some notes about this on the list the general idea there is to cover all the new things that got included in 8415 like soul max rt"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "stateful issues a couple of those things that weren't in a 3315 standard client or server so one thing you know if you're interested in my call kind of here would be is if you have an implementation and you're interested please talk to my friends at the iol you know drop it off there they're just looking for interoperability partners to make sure that people have implemented some of those more corner test cases because a little bit of concern i'm hoping by november we'll have better we'll have better results to say yeah we've got a bunch of people that have done this i think we're kind of in a state where i think some of it's been done like soul max rt is in the home gateways for sure but i i don't know what it looks like for enterprises for example so i think some of that we're gonna have to sort out that make sense right i think the idea would be to kind of make it easy for eric to kind of defend this right so if the information is ready to go i think it's easier for him to like defend something that eric like to will would say like hey like you know this is where it's implemented and so on because like we kind of remove the implementation status and everything from the rfcs right so it'll be good to kind of have this information ready because this is a really long process and i i did 8200 like and it's like and and it's like really tough on the 80 so it's uh it's probably good to kind of have a good idea of like you know what is really yeah out there like okay thanks that's good now yeah we probably need you know we'll probably need to develop some kind of uh feature uh matrix or something to to see you know have have these combinations been tested especially about some of the newer uh non-basic sort of stuff um [Music] so you know what what can you do to help in the short term uh well for the um you know co-authors i need to hear from you whether you're interested in working on this or not um and you know if anybody has else has a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "strong interest let me know um you know you can send uh to dhc chairs um if you are interested um that way tim's aware of it as well and um the other thing is you know if you have any issues that you've had with rc 8415 any typos errors uh you know more severe mistakes or whatever you know do report them um ideally it's best if you report them as the you know using the errata stuff but if you don't want to do that you can send them to dgchairs at itf.org for now as we'll collect them we might you know depending on how the the dhcp uh v6 biz team wants to work we might open up a different mailing list as we kind of did last time but i think this is a hopefully a smaller effort and we won't need to do that um the other thing is that you know it's it's again something in the future but we need people to review the document when published and do it properly um and you know give us updates quickly so that we can get new versions correct new corrected versions out as soon as possible so that's it awesome thanks bernie i think we got our next steps here so we'll take some stuff to the list for sure all right let's see next up is um the dhcp sr locator and then let's see i'll put up the slides all right let's see okay you want to go ahead wing chun yeah so uh hello can you hear me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "yep we can hear you just fine go ahead okay i'm gonna give you control of the slides or you're okay if i do it uh i can do that okay hang on okay so uh hello everyone uh i'm with sancho from uh channel mobile i will present this slide to show the distributor sr6 located by ds dhcp and uh okay so here the figure shows the network architecture of a telecom operators the applications narrow here is a private line and vpn services for enterprises the cpus are located in the customers sites the number will be very large even more than 50 000 around the country with a wider geographical distribution some of them may be based on 4g or 5g with a high mobility in order to keep the network simple the cps often do not deploy igp so recently [Music] many people many operators have deployed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "large scale as rb6 networks the cps also begin to support srv6 so that operators can provide the end-to-end srv6 vpn to customers it's a little bit complicated to configure the i76 we hope to simplify the configuration and hope the cpe can dynamically learn assam 6 located subnet routines that's why we write this proposal the proposal is very simple the basic idea is that we treat i-76 locate as the ipv6 prefix in prefix support the key points i hear the first one is the dxcp v6 server allocates srv6 located as a prefix and the second follow the dhcp basics prefix delegation process and the third after the located prefix assigned successfully the bus dynamically distribute the locate subnet routine locally and distributes the local uh located uh sub subnets routines to arsenals"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "in the network and the the force when the locator prefix is released the brush deletes the locate subnets rotis here the brass need to enable the hcp v6 pd server or dhcp v6 release agent service so before we introduce the dhcp extension i would like to share the basic information about the srv6 seed format especially the comprised assab6 seed format which is illustrated the bottom of the slide for the comprised seat the locator will be separated to two parts the common part we call that locate block and the different part we call that locate note other field are the same with the original seed which define the fc 89 86 so about the extension we hope to define a new srv6 locator"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "option it will be encapped and facilitated in the ia prefix options field of ia prefix option it will be used to identify srb6 locator prefix in ia prefix option and carry srv6 locator subnet information the format shows in a faker firstly we need a new option code for the option assignment 6 locator the second we will have a locate a block length field that indicates the locator block the length of the locator block in a comprised state if it's not zero if it's a zero it will indicate an original as a b6 seed and we need a function lens field which indicate the lens of function we need a arguments lens field it will indicate the length of the argument that's the basic extension here the srb6 located prefix"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "is filled in the ipv6 prefix field of the ia prefix option the locate prefix lens is filled in the prefix lens field of ia prefix option so that you can calculate the located node lens based on the information here so all the lengths of the field for the comprised seed or for the original seed can be get generated based on the information in the extension hider and yeah this is the basic relationship for the srv6 locator option i think it's very simple and iapd option may contain multiple ia prefix options at the same time and ia prefix option can only have one srv6 locator option at at most uh this is based on the rfc 8450 and let's see some application scenarios the first one the brass works as the scp scp-v6 pd server"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "at this moment the favorite second generate the locate subnet routine locally the third distribute the locate subnets routine to other ipv6 node so it's very simple and the second scenario brass works as the htcp basics really agent it's also very simple the behavior like that first release dhcp basics pd allocation messages the second generate the locator subnet routine locally the third distribute the locate prefix rotates to us ipv6 node so that's the basic behavior for a really agent so that's all any questions or comments bernie i think you beat him in line so you can go ahead okay um so you know if so a client sends this new"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "option in a request or you know solicit things and a server that's aware of this option would send one in a reply so you you know the client can know oh yeah okay the server understood this but if a server that doesn't understand this new option it will respond with a prefix because this is going to look and say oh see i said i see a request for a prefix oh i'm going to assign you a pre-tax um and so now what does the client do with that prefix that it got that it's not you know it it it's not it doesn't have this your new option in it the uh ia srv or whatever it was called um yeah srv6 locator option in it so the client will go well this isn't an srv6 thing so is the client going to turn around and release it you know so i think that's something that needs to be thought out is how does how does a client make sure that when it asks for one of these things that it unders it knows it got one and it that i think you've got the check on that but if it how does it know or how does it what does it do how does it deal with it if if the server didn't know about this srv6 locator option you know and just assigned a prefix from its prefix pool so yeah i think this is a very good question so from my point of view for the server if it don't doesn't know the option"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "it will ignore the new option right that is a basic behavior for the server which to handle the new option and it just treated as the original prefix allocation that that that is okay well the server doesn't understand the option it's going to allocate a normal prefix right and you've wasted a prefix potentially because the client can't use it for the srv6 purposes right yeah that may be that that may happen but you know this system will be maintained in one operator's network i think it uh it's easier to generate some basic policy to avoid this kind of uh problem well i think for interoperability reasons right you should it's i mean you can't argue this is a closed system right people can plug things in and stuff so i think you need to think about how to deal with that you know i mean one one thought maybe that you want a instead of putting it in a standard prefix option maybe you want to add a new you know ia srv6 option right which says hey this is an srv6 locator you know so you want an ia option for this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "yeah that's possible i think he we should consider uh the question uh later and uh hope we can uh handle it thank you yeah and you know i'm not i'm not going to um i i can't say whether this is a good or bad idea because i'm not really an srv6 expert and so you know i think that there it will be good at some point to get some input from uh some people that have more of this experience because and and you know i mean this is a protocol option probably if especially if it's an ia and so it should be done in the dhc working group but we are going to need some expertise to help us yeah maybe we can also uh submit the draft to spring working group and maybe we can also apply some slot in spring working group to present it and to see the feedback and comments okay um we got 15 more minutes let's let eric and suresh say there uh yeah eric i'm gonna run real quick actually because i think bernie said everything i wanted to say i'm just gonna say uh i think uh the dhc idiomatic way of doing it is probably to define a new option which bernie suggested i'm going to go ahead and guess that the reason that maybe you didn't propose that is because the b-raz might not be able to be updated uh i don't know if that's a really good reason or not and secondly as uh well as temporary delegate delegated responsibility i was going to say it definitely does have to have uh review from from spring yeah and we if if we adopt this work we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "also need you know permission from our ad okay okay thanks okay i think that's everybody okay great thank you thank you let's see again i think you're up well i'll let you two work this out whichever one of you wants to get up here there we go doing it with my hat on the whole like a d hut thing doesn't yeah okay so hi everyone um my plan was that i was going to be in the grow working group and jen was going to present this so i am in no way prepared so i'll make this up as we go along so this is registering self-generated ipv6 addresses using dhcp v6 and thank you this is who we are the draft is actually based on an earlier document from suresh and rajiv and some others um but you know it's myself lorenzo jen at some point so that's us next slide why are we doing this because eventually asking people have you tried turning it off and on gets really old so what are we trying to do what's the problem we want to solve so a fairly common"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "thing with like it help desks and security people is they need to do things like find what ip address a machine has um with ipv4 the ceo can't print to his printer he calls up and he's really annoyed people look in the dhcp logs they find the iep address based on the mac they ping the printer they you know things work out and they're happy if you're doing ipv6 with slack the ceo calls up and says he can't print to his printer and you say have you tried turning it off for none again and he says yes and you say uh have you tried turning it off and run again and he says yes and then you go post your resume on monster right if you just have the mac address it's really hard to figure out what ipv6 address somebody has um next one the other common use case is security operations folk have something where you know last thursday at 2 43 they have some ids log that shows that some machine uploaded their entire source tree to stack overflow what they'd like to know is which employee had this ip address at this time or what machine had this ip address at this time with ipv4 the obvious thing is you have the ip address you go look in the dhcp logs you find the mac address and then hr goes along and visits the employee and says you did what um with v6 what you say is uh that's not good i have no idea who used that address they assigned it to themselves with slack and then once again you post your resume on monster.com next slide um so obviously you know the problem is that a lot of people a lot of devices run slack and don't use dhcp for doing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "address assignment that's actually what's happening on this network when your machine joins this network you do slack and you get an address and the network doesn't really know what it is like the network devices do but there's no central tracking of it anything like that um an option would be you know tell everybody you should do dhcp for address assignment that doesn't always wind well it doesn't look like it's going to happen so what are we actually proposing as i say this was um based on an earlier draft which was suresh rajiv and i can't remember who else wrote it yep which was basically doing registering self-generated ipv6 addresses in dns using dhcp v6 and it went along fairly well but then it got stuck in working group last call and as far as i can tell almost all of the unhappiness was about the dns part of it so how do you take this address and authenticate it that this client should be able to update that dns address so we did is we took out all of the dns bits and made a few other changes and what we're left with is a method to inform a dhcp v6 server that a device has a self-generated address or a statically configured address what this does is it allows the dhcp server to log this information and ideally also stick the information in its lisa's file so that it knows or lisa's database so that it knows that the address is in use and it doesn't try and hand it out in reality that's not likely that bigger problem you know the chances of multiple people choosing an address and a dhcp server trying to assign it are fairly low but it's still useful this solves the helpdesk use case when the help desk wants to figure out what ip address a certain mac address has it looks in the dhcp logs"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "um it also solves the secops problem if they want to know what mac address an ip address was a while back they look in the logs or what other sort of tooling is around the dhcp server the way it does this is it's fairly simple there's a dhcp v6 address notification message which just says hey i'm using this address please make note of it um does this actually actually solve the secops problems well only kind of because of reasons what you actually get with dhcp v6 is you get the duid yeah and that's a whole site better than nothing at all often it is actually based on the mac address but not always if it's a device that your security group has heard about there's a reasonable chance they could actually like log the duid in an asset database and if they don't do that you know there's also client link layer address option in dhcp v6 which a number of network devices implement and so that information shows up in the log i tested it actually with ios xe on the ietf wi-fi network dhcpd and microsoft seemed to support it or there is what i think was being discussed when i first walked in which is a update to uh 621 where a bunch of bngs and brasses and similar can include you know the the address in the message um i wrote these slides a long time ago yay the next one's questions so i made up most of the talk on the fly um who has questions or is this the best idea ever bernie do you have you were up there i don't know is it the worst idea ever yeah okay um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "well i don't know you know is i'd have to go back to the notes about why we didn't like it that much in the first place i i guess i just have one question and that is that you know if if a device were to remove itself from the network um you know it's not defending its address um and another device comes along and registers it you're just gonna say the dhcp server basically has no responsibility to say hey i got a new you know i got an updated thing it's a totally different client but i'm going to record it sort of what you're expecting yep at the moment it is purely the client sends a message that says i'm using this and the dhcp server logs it if another client comes along and says i'm using this the dhcp server logs it um it's just a you know i get this no useful sanity checking so clearly there are some ways this could be abused right like people could say that somebody else was using the address um attackers could also if they wanted never send the message like even if it's built into their os if they wanted to hide who they are when they join the network they could suppress the message from being sent but i still think it's a lot better than not having having any information um so sort of very perfect versus the enemy the good good type thing did that actually answer your question or did i answer a completely unrelated question oh that that's good kathy's going to tell me why i'm wrong wow did i really just call you kathy that's okay my god i've known you forever um so that was mostly what i was thinking but this is just a fire forget thing yes it sends it there's no consequence there's no acknowledgement required i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "actually i believe that you're supposed to get back an act but you don't have to i can't remember if we had the act in the end and you send a couple and jen's gonna correct me as far as i can remember what you're doing we saying that you refresh it periodically and actually draft has two conflicting sentences currently and you have the github issue for that but i think we discussed the idea of arc and decided not to because you never know if your server actually understands it so and we also only require a client to send this if there is a more bit set an array indicating there is a dhcp server because i definitely don't want clients to send those messages if there is no dhcp in the network whatever so but we still client still has no way to know what server actually supports so just i'm sending kate if you're happy to log it log it or drop it to yeah it's stateless it's the whole idea like client will like really to inform server and server willing to do whatever it goes like if you if you're sending career with mo you kind of indicate into client is there is a dhcp somewhere client sending it to all dhcp link local multicast so again if there is no such thing on the segment it will just go nowhere if there is a relay agent it means the network operator kind of expects something like that uh it times out we have some sorry i'd actually misunderstood your question i thought it was a i'm using this address and the dhcp server can say no so i misunderstood your question i'm not really wondering what the responsibility is of the dhcp server the dhcp server's responsibility is log this um optionally note it in sort of your wherever you store lease information and so you don't try and hand it to someone else that's optional but you just put it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "in there and it stays in there you stuff it nope it times out after an amount of time we the exact amount of time the authors are still fighting over um we just as long as it turns out eventually it times out eventually it's like does it time out in four hours or a day or whatever is is that like deciding the best answer that's a bit tricky but it times up it's not infinitely growing it's also if for example your disk gets full the dhcp server is allowed to throw them away or if it's having a bad day it's a best use only that was exactly what i was thinking about is you know getting basically ddosed by a bunch of goofy clients just sending stuff that you don't even care about but then you have to keep and yep yep you're allowed to ignore them if you feel like it and yes they will time out um part of the thing is there's like 17 different timers that we could base the time out on and is it like the lowest of this one unless it's more than x versus you know so the exact number is d the to be decided actually that sounds better any other yeah we got a couple more we got hazel here online hi hazel smith um i was wondering if this had if this did have an act then conceivably you could if you were designing you know access switches you could use this sort of ip source card v6 and basically say like um if you've actually got a lease from the atp's v6 you can use this address or if you've sent an announcement saying a notification saying i'm going to use it and the http responded sure fine with me then you allow it otherwise you don't which would then give you some kind of assurance that if you later see packets on the network with the ip address that they came from the device with the mac address that had told you it was going to use the ip address um i've no idea if that will be a valuable concept but um yeah thank and thanks hazel like i think one of the worries is that right the dcp server doesn't support it and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "you're waiting for like the dhcp server to say it's okay that that could lead to like you know somebody not having access to that sorry that's the worry and that's why it's kind of going as best effort to go through but i i think it's like fairly available if you have like a controlled system and this is something that you know it's going to happen we can probably like you know set up something like regard kind of thing right it can hook up to something like regard and to do that but yeah but otherwise like it's going to be a bit tough to like lock it down too much right this is the best effort yeah yeah so can i quickly just follow up on this there is a other concern we expect the client only report preferred addresses which means by the time you send this applications might already want to send traffic so if you want to do something like savvy it's better to use dad on sales stations or any other form of client willing to get an address and it might be way too late here to do anything based on dhcp registration and i guess i'll add something to that like one of the other bits on my badge is like knock monkey and we've been having a lot of entertainment at this meeting with um ipv6 and dad and the network devices going oh i don't think you should really have that on that port i mean actually what it's doing is it's sending its like device tracking message from um colon colon because of entertaining bugs so like the whole your switch can do mac address learning and locking down just as like terrifying but that's my personal vendors love it okay we've got one minute left eric you wanna yeah uh eric can hear i just wanted to say that doing this for anything other than purely informational purposes like as tempting as it is and as fun as it is to be like hey i should take this into account when giving out leases like it seems like there's a huge can of worm stop in there so here's a centrally known place to log stuff as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "like cool great have at it have fun log as much as you feel like if it's too much just start ignoring them everything else starts to seem sketchier and sketchier thank you very much uh we have go ahead we've got one more person we're going to sneak in here in the last 30 seconds go so um have you thought about perhaps routers or other network devices faking these messages to get a more populated lock sorry to get a more watch um to get a more populated look so also lock clients that are not collaborating yeah somebody suggested that um you know a device that sees somebody using a mac and ip could send this i think that that sounds like a really bad idea um mainly because it seems like a lot of complexity like a router could be like i saw this guy using this ip and mac i'll send it off i think that bad mojo but it could be done okay all right awesome i think we've got some good stuff to talk about here on the list um i think that's everything we had on the agenda does anyone have bernie do you have any last things you want to chat about click the wrong thing i put the hand instead of like no i don't have anything else okay awesome okay great great seeing everyone we'll see everyone in london again we'll follow up in the mailing list thanks everybody see you bonnie nice seeing you okay yeah good to see you guys take care enjoy thank you all take care sex bye bye"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "hey ben can i talk you into reviewing 15."
  }
]
