[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "well I asked that on you know that the stuff I sent help and then he goes yeah I don\u0027t know and I actually have to go in the lab which I\u0027ve lost access to and then I asked one of the Tammy can you can you run this for me great just save it to a file man what can you I\u0027m glad it worked out yes you mean it has no Wi-Fi well you have the option if either just giving me raw text file okay so and then Dave you\u0027re taking notes yeah so Roman is you and Roman are gonna tag-team soap on the ether pad I don\u0027t remember what it was on the slide and I\u0027m you\u0027re you\u0027re a jabber right thank you yeah we almost could just like you know do a little round to the food but we\u0027ve got stragglers coming and stuff now that\u0027s too cold it\u0027s freezing in there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:21",
    "text": "is this working Wow but do I really need it probably okay okay let\u0027s get started so that I optimistically think we can maybe get done early all right so good afternoon to the almost next to two last sessions well the last session for today so you are in the mile working group if this is not where you want to be it\u0027s up to you so I\u0027m not gonna read through the note well I think everybody knows that by now so let\u0027s go on to the next slide okay so we\u0027ll give a quick status of where we are now with respect to the different drafts then we\u0027ll have Stephen provide updates to the two Rolly drafts that he\u0027s been working on then oh I\u0027m sorry we\u0027re gonna have the guidance draft first update then Stephen and then I don\u0027t think I need the full ten minutes literally I\u0027ll just need two minutes to provide an update on the XMPP and then taki will provide the update on the new submission for the Jason binding so thank you Adam for being the jabber scribe and Roman and Dave for being the note takers and Davis passing around the blue sheets too so with that let\u0027s get started okay so where we are now when you look at the Charter and the work that we set out in this working group we currently have three drafts that have been adopted as working group drafts so in the base spec it\u0027s representing io def in JSON format so that\u0027s the new draft that techie will be talking about and then for the transport there\u0027s two drafts one that\u0027s Rolly based and the third one is the XMPP based one okay so that is it I think we can move ahead and have provide the guidance I\u0027m yo suki from a nicety I represent "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:24",
    "text": "the status of guidance trust and this is agenda first destructions to provide advanced for ioaded implementation and also about representation of common security indicators and use cases so far and then yeah I will show that it asshole status update and then oh sorry right at first I will show the status of that route and then show the update from previous draft and finally show to-do list and conclude that that\u0027s right this is the draft status the title trust is currently in all 48 state panels and I fixing editorial mistakes in communication with our associate dots and it almost completed I think and it will be it will be RFC a to some hope very soon thank you thank you thank you author 48 means you\u0027re pretty much done you\u0027re just in the final you have 48 hours then it goes to RC so congratulations thank you well done oh yeah you know it\u0027s a literal 48 okay this is updates from the previous draft most of the comments and reviews about editorial mistakes and I will I we fix these mistakes and impotent when it\u0027s rebuilt from the noid he pointed out include inconsistency of XML language repute which is optional in RFC 791 zero but it\u0027s mandatory in the schema and this program is I was presented by tactic Assange at the last mile session and probably I think it will be fixed in errata next right and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:27",
    "text": "other comments it\u0027s a shoes this is most objectives are also editorial mistakes and and through that through the fixings I am States comments float that just ringing oh it\u0027s uh I think I it seems important and she says what is what is a preference of the distrust to be an informational or to be a BCP the answer of all sides yes it is as it stays as informational and she has also agreed at so and finally are we we are now and fixing a story or mistakes with RFC editors next right and this is to-do lists only the to dues is to pass us 48 state after fixing it to do mistakes and finally thank you for all reviewers Chasse and they did and working group members thank you that\u0027s all good John okay so next step Steven you want to provide us updates unrolling you want to do Rowley first I presume oh okay to go sorry one one second I\u0027ve been so hey did you upload it we never got it this is the one I have no idea I wrote the slide yeah my email scripts it alright doesn\u0027t matter okay I am Steven bang Hart from NIST and I am here to provide hopefully the kind of last status update here on the work that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:29",
    "text": "we\u0027ve been doing on the Roley core document so the version 14 was just posted like this morning actually I think so the data tracker now represents version 14 so I\u0027m gonna go ahead and walk through the current status of the draft here only if you could go to slide 2 for me here thank you so the document is an IAS G review our last blocking issue was an issue with our usage of dot well-known registrations we have resolved that issue with the remaining members of the isg that had those discusses and we updated that in version 14 I think I\u0027m going to talk a little bit more about this issue later on a slide to kind of clarify what exactly changed what the impact is what it\u0027s going to mean for the draft but ultimately it means that the Ayana registration for dot well-known has been removed from the draft is kind of the long short of it I\u0027ll get into a little bit more detail on a later slide so since IETF 99 we\u0027ve had a very successful ad review a successful art review successful iesg review we\u0027ve made a ton of editorial changes the document is is in a much better place always it continues to improve so really happy with all the review we\u0027ve been going through we\u0027ve had a couple minor normative changes nothing that is particularly implementation breaking or anything that really should be too much of an impact so these are these are small changes next slide please so a really quick walk through all the changes that have happened since Prague just to make sure that everyone is up-to-date with the things that have happened so versions 9 and 10 came very quickly one after another and this reflects pretty much all the changes that happen during the ad Review this included some editorial changes we adjusted the language that we use when we\u0027re talking about TLS primarily we we recommend against the use of TLS 1.30 round-trip time resumption there are some nasty replay attacks that come into play with that feature enable that are particularly damaging to restful services and that are just not compatible with the kind of security nature that Roly is dealing with here and so we recommended that that feature be turned off in TLS 1.3 it\u0027s not it\u0027s not normative it\u0027s not a must but we do recommend that in the draft for security purposes and we also updated our security references in security considerations next slide please version 11 was the AR T review we updated TLS references making many references out to seven five two five this allowed us to shorten a section make it easier to read make sure that people weren\u0027t slogging through these like four paragraphs of text that is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:29",
    "text": "really horrible to read now it\u0027s much cleaner we reduced the severity of requirements around the /resource /name plantations a little bit more freedom around how they deal with the root resource we were a little bit what we felt was and the art reviewer was felt overly restrictive with that root resource preventing implementations and servers from actually able to use that resource for other things so there was concern with that roman uh women denis leo and CMU so the relaxation on the slash resource is that consist a language now in the role ec sir draft consistent the language in the role ec cert draft remains the same so does that need to be made consistent based on that feedback no there\u0027s there\u0027s no consistency issues that happen there the language in this user draft as far as I intend unless the working group decides otherwise to state a salmon c-cert so that it more strongly supports the rid resource because that was a pretty cool use case in in that text in the original Rolly document when it was a like rollio 2 or something like that so if the working group feels that in the sea sort document it\u0027s no longer needed to be that strict in supporting that resource then we can change that but for now to support that use case I\u0027d like it to stay probably a must-see cert but again we can talk about that it\u0027s not a big deal the other big change big minor change in the IRA RT reviews that we switched from you our eyes I mean we switched from I our eyes to you our eyes we had a couple comments about that about some problems that that brings up and the some of the issues with the fact that current implementations of Adam we\u0027re switching to you our eyes anyway and then in order to maintain interoperability and compatibility it would be best if we made that switch as well we agreed with that review note and we made that change in the in the document next slide please versions 12 and 13 contain our iesg review again this is more editorial fixes some example inconsistencies were fixed reflect some of the new changes that we made we updated our terminology boilerplate to be CP 14 which notably includes the better clarification around lowercase requirement text and there were a few lines that imposed extra requirements on security consortiums that reviewers felt were unnecessary security consortiums know what they want to do best and we needn\u0027t really be telling them exactly what they need to be doing so we relaxed several of those okay next slide so this was version 14 these changes have been made over the github on the github repo over the last couple of days if you\u0027ve been following that however this version was just posted to data tracker yesterday and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:29",
    "text": "posting of this draft cleared two of our discusses and the last discuss is hopefully pending being cleared in shortly this change removes the Slashdot well-known registration which means that there needs to be a new way of reliably and automate ibly discovering rolling service documents so the isg review talked about the fact that even with a dot well-known registration it is not guaranteed for the service document to actually be located at this location and that we weren\u0027t actually completely achieving our goal of full discovery anyway and so we needed a more full solution so we have removed that well-known registration allowing those discusses to be cleared and we\u0027ve started work on a rolly discovery draft to provide a fully specified fully automated solution for service discovery for Rowley we\u0027re investigating the relevant technologies things like na pointer and service records DNS SD all these things so Dave I just wanted to provide I think more detailed description of the discussion that we had with the number of folks on the IHG but it was mostly Adam Roche and Ben Campbell\u0027s objections to the dot well-known registration that we were working to address so their concern was that we should be telling a more complete discovery story that that you know simply defining dot well-known still doesn\u0027t provide a mechanism by which you can discover the the host and port that you\u0027re you know that you\u0027re accessing we mentioned service documents as a as a way of doing that but we actually had no normative requirements around that solution so their preference was for us to define a more complete discovery story so one of the things that we\u0027re going to do is we\u0027re going to to start a rolly discovery draft that that that could potentially bring back in the the work that we that we pulled out now there\u0027s a number of different ways to go about doing this discovery scenario there\u0027s you know there\u0027s the service record approach which we hinted at in in the original Rolly text that we could continue to pursue but there\u0027s also something called an adapter and a pointer record and DNS and what that allows you to do is to is is to generate a URL that can then be used for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:31",
    "text": "accessing the service and one of the points that you know that they brought up that I think really convinced us that we should we should probably revisit this issue is is that in a multi home to multi tenant in a multi-tenant environment you may decide to have you know different different service documents but you know within the same domain and so using something something like the then after record and and DNS would actually give us a way of being able to support that so we want to go back to the drawing board and try to come up with a more flexible approach to supporting discovery so our intent is to to work on that and then submit a draft as soon as possible I\u0027m probably in the you know around the first of the year to to cover these issues yeah we want this we want this out as quickly as possible we know it\u0027s something that\u0027s important in the meantime we\u0027ve provided text in the Rowley core about guidance on how you may distribute that URL so that people can find your service places that you should put it using link relations and your and your web page stuff like that so we\u0027ve provided some guidance on the best way to do that and we\u0027re really fast-tracking working as hard as we can on this discovery draft and then some minor minor errors that we fixed in the schema that we noticed that were not major changes they were just formatting errors that we that we noticed so next slide okay so that is all the changes that we made that takes us all the way up to version 14 which is the most recent version on the data tracker and is the version that has all these discusses cleared so I want to thank everybody for their review comments advice and contributions it was a lot of people kind of work together to make this as best as it could be and it was it was a collaborative effort so thank you to everybody hopefully we get this thing done where we\u0027re hopefully you know in the right direction and as I said we are working on this on this discovery draft okay so there has been some updates to the extensions that we\u0027ve been working on and I talked about the software descriptor one in the sack and working group we\u0027ve also made an update to the Caesar trollee extension we\u0027ve been updating it to a new format and trying to reduce the amount of text in it we really want it to be easier to read we want it to be less long so I\u0027m gonna talk a lot about not alone I\u0027m gonna talk a little bit about the c-cert roli extension next and the changes that we made in that so we created a template file that is used to create roli extensions this is a kind of fill in the blank build your own roli extension kind of file that\u0027s something that we\u0027re currently hosting out on github to share with people in the future is this something that we want to put on the wiki four-mile to have available for people it\u0027s it\u0027s a file that provides an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:33",
    "text": "extension template and on a wiki that could be a more useful resource and a at a much film CIS let me clarify so do you have it publicly hosted or privately hosted in github privately privately okay so and you you gave Illinois the template right because we\u0027re working on configuration checklist yes extension we went ahead and created a github repository template in there that\u0027s public so we can send that to the list I built out a bunch of stuff in there so people can just duplicate it and do whatever I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s okay with you guys but okay whatever so public github awesome we could do that and a wiki we could do just the github I\u0027m Dave Dave Dave Walter Meyer so I think I think the one concern that we had was that you know this this template is useful to you know for for creating new new extension so we wanted to wanted to come up with a way to make it as easy as possible for folks to find it that you know they wanted to create a new new extension and I\u0027m really concerned with just you know putting it out on github somewhere because it\u0027s not clear how how someone who is interested in rolling would actually go out and and and find it we could provide a link to the github so we\u0027re looking for ideas on on how how we might be more successful with that it\u0027s it\u0027s not clear if it\u0027s on the wiki either we put things on the wiki people don\u0027t look at the wiki and so it\u0027s really up to the group to remember where it is and let them know where it is of course we\u0027ll send out a link if you guys want to put a link to it on a wiki you can do that you can put it in the wiki you can do however you want we just put it there for our own use and it\u0027s there for anybody else who wants to use it as well so I\u0027m I\u0027m not familiar with the wiki process who actually has edit rights on the wiki is that just the chairs or anybody okay that makes that a lot easier so maybe a link to this repo on the wiki is a decent way of providing a link to this resource so as long as nobody is horribly objecting to that that\u0027s that is a link that I can provide okay perfect okay next slide so I\u0027ll try and go through this here so I want to talk about two issues that I\u0027d like to have resolved in this Easter extension and I think that I want to talk to the group about it to try and figure it out one of this is the one that Roman we just talked about you know five minutes ago about the the slash resource for rid so it\u0027s a must requirement in this Easter extension at the moment that a server must implement the forward slash resource if you are going to use the incident indicator information types in the c-cert extension we think that that might be too restrictive on Roly repositories that want to stand up "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:34",
    "text": "incident and indicator repositories and would instantly have that resource be restricted but we would like to take it to the group and see what the thought is so we have two proposals here one that this requirement is removed from Caesar and effectively becomes exactly the same as it is in the Rowley core that is optional if you want to support the rid endpoint proposal B we don\u0027t make it a must we downgrade that normative requirement either downgraded or remove the normative requirement and instead provide a set of recommendations and guidance on to how you best make this resource and rid and Rowley all play together as nicely as possible Roman Tennille you see mu so can you explain why we want to make it different because as I recollect in the draft we want a hard enrollee more than we want for rid so we think we need to be more secure with Rowley I\u0027m sorry with the Caesar draft rather than with rid I I\u0027m missing something Dave Walter Meyer so the text in the in the core Rowley right now it says that the resource may be supported for compatibility with existing deployments that are using transport of real-time internet work defense messages read messages over HTTP TLS but the problem is is what happens if you have a rolly server that\u0027s supporting the see certain information type and it doesn\u0027t have rid and the organization doesn\u0027t have a rid endpoint having it be a must requirement seems like kind of a not so convenient requirement if that\u0027s the case so one of the things that we\u0027re thinking about and trying to clean that situation up is you know trying to adjust the wording in a way that you know would have it be sensical from that from that perspective yeah I mean colonizing it makes sense I would just recommend in the Caesar draft we explain why it\u0027s a must to explain exactly what you just said because right now I\u0027m reading it de /as a must as defined in Rowley note that that stricter . no explanation are you suggesting that we make it a like a conditional must in some way to say like if the organization runs a red point that should yeah I mean that would make sense I mean just anything that would explain why there\u0027s a difference you know would be great for clarity so yeah one one solution to this actually that I do not have as a proposal down here is to say make this a conditional must as Dave put it if you are supporting rid and I forget the RFC number I think it\u0027s six five 35 if you\u0027re supporting that you must support that /resource behavior as defined in the spec does that make sense as to what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:34",
    "text": "you were thinking yeah I would endorse that because it\u0027s understandable then why there\u0027s this distinction okay that makes sense to me so that\u0027s a new proposal see that I think is probably the change that makes sense is there any objection at all to to doing a conditional must quote-unquote for that section okay so I\u0027ll post that change to list and see what the responses I will post an update draft with that change yeah okay I will post an update draft with that change okay and this is the bigger one actually I want to talk about I don\u0027t know how much how much time am i using like too much not enough I don\u0027t know that determines how fast I talked through this next section I want to make sure yeah it\u0027s usually what happens I\u0027m used to it give you two minutes two minutes I can do two minutes works for me okay there are a large number of requirements in the c-cert document that are specific to when you are using io def enrollee this means that if you have an IO def data format type in your early repository there are extra requirements on how your Roly repository must behave that means it\u0027s a longer spec that means it\u0027s a more restrictive spec that means that a repository that\u0027s carrying io def is behaving differently than a repository that is not carrying io def the reason that is in there in the first place is because there are requirements that originate from an older version of Roley we need to review those I have specific requirements in the new context of a more generalized Roley I believe that those io def specific requirements can be reduced and removed such that Roly repository is carrying io def do not behave differently than your other Roly repositories I think that increases interoperability and I think that means it\u0027s easier for people to stand up I owed Everly repositories so I don\u0027t I don\u0027t have a proposal here but I wanted to see if the group felt strongly about io def specific specific requirements in the CCR document cristinaw Co Carnegie Mellon so are some of these like the requirements of you should use a referral link you should you or you should not use of whatever a history and the refer our referral in io def documents when they\u0027re used in Raleigh yes it\u0027s also requirements on the io def document itself so I\u0027ve never understood why we have those especially in that it\u0027s XML and well-structured and the server should be able to convert that from an io def document into the links all by itself otherwise this whole "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:34",
    "text": "computer computer communication thing is a myth agree yeah I absolutely vote for striking that ok noted thank you so I will include that in the updated draft that I post as well luckily thankfully that will greatly reduce the length of the document which makes it easier for people to read and look at which is really really great shorter documents get more people to read them so that\u0027s very exciting okay that\u0027s my two minutes I\u0027m done I was maybe a little bit longer than two minutes but that\u0027s what I do okay thank you it\u0027s my literal two minutes you were okay so I\u0027m not I\u0027ll give some time back cuz I\u0027m not gonna take the full ten minutes um so we put the XMPP not we the chair put the X I\u0027m I\u0027m now just acting as an individual sorry XMPP grid draft went to last call received still more feedback that it was issues with readability so in an attempt to make it simpler I think perhaps I cut too much text out where I thought there was just too much redundancy or repetition of how the flow worked in my endeavor to just say it once I think I cut too much out so for instance there were comments to how one might do the discovery I had taken those examples out so I need to put them back in as I was working with two of the commenters those being Peter st. Andre and now I can\u0027t remember the other gentleman\u0027s name a lot of the confusion and comments that came from them is that they use the XMPP vocabulary and taxonomy whereas we are mapping it slightly different we\u0027re still using the XMPP protocol and the services but using it to pub/sub and to broker the sharing of security information which is like different so in my conversations with Peter his lipo kind of went out and said ah really what we need to do is to just do that mapping of their vocabulary to our vocabulary and when I started explaining the use cases he actually found the sack of terminology and said ah let me use that as my reference it really helped them and as it turns out where we originally thought we would he said it may just be easier for me to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:34",
    "text": "start from scratch it ended up that we didn\u0027t need to once he found the terminology draft right so next slide please so basically I want to thank Peter because we\u0027ve had several conversations now in interchanges he\u0027s really helping me improve the draft we\u0027re not quite there yet so would still encourage you to look at it and let us know if we\u0027re in the right directions but I do know that we need to put tighter focus on how the broker function and discovery works so some of that text needs to be put back in next slide please and we need to add those examples back in so whereas before yes I took the lazy route and reference jet 268 not from the whole notion of how it was used but really to show how it was referencing the i/o def schema which as it turns out we don\u0027t need to do at all so I just need to recraft examples to show how to do that so we ran out of time just no excuse we just ran out of time and our plan is to revision it again as an author and given all the comments I think it\u0027s worthwhile to reissue another working group last call but that\u0027s not up to me because I\u0027m the author so I\u0027ll leave it at that comments okay thank you very much for the presentation any comments or question if not thank you very much so let me talk about so let me talk about adjacent binding of that you live draft so thanks to that previous discussion we just made a zero impression over adjacent mapping draft go please so this is the current status with a draft so based on the discussion in IKEA 1919 Prague we established a new working group draft so in the one version I we finished writing from the beginning to the end finally so we would like to ask you to review and also we would like to ask co-author of the draft and I intentionally asked Roman to join us for that editing and Roman agreed to join the editing thank you very much for that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:36",
    "text": "thank you yes and if you if there are any other people who want to join the co-author asleep I also that welcome him for her so please contact us any time and here we have three issue we want to discuss first issue is about ml string I mean except L was really easy for describing information but if I convert it into JSON something has to be considered left hand side is a direct translation to Jason ml string is with worry sometime if I have a Japanese description it could be okay but if we have an English description we have the Abba extra Brad you\u0027d like a value less Windows but if I was a user of the Jason I want to write like this way right side description in these windows it\u0027s much more simple and even for me other japanese i prefer to use english wording rather than japanese usually so i prefer to have a description and description ml instead of having just description using the MM string but it makes sense for you decision than what I mean left-hand side uses MLS drink for English and for Japanese right-hand side uses mmm string and also just just string I think just using a string is usually easier and more compact because we use the ISM I want to make it more shorter our use case is for machine I promise in usage so making it more compact very important so I want to hear your opinion on that providing yes so this is Nancy as just individual so are you saying you\u0027re trying to optimize by not using a string type using both stream and mm string okay so on the right hand uuuu string type yes to differentiate Japanese from English yes for the English string type or the Japanese string attack ah got it got it that\u0027s it so cristinaw Co Carnegie Mellon so I I\u0027m fine with either version I understand the desire the more interesting question for me is that could you make it so they in machine to machine so if I had a program that could translate the XML document to JSON it could it could it get it right and then if I wanted to go back from that converted JSON representation back to XML would it still have fidelity to the original thank you for the comment I think we found out anyway we have to provide a converter if we use a just a comparator from XML to JSON that combate "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:37",
    "text": "used it at Mac automatically for instance so know I said so I mean I\u0027ve looked through what what\u0027s there now the the the draft and you touch on some parts of this and I don\u0027t think it can be fully I don\u0027t think it could be a dumb converter I think you\u0027d have to make a converter that understood io def the question is can we have rules can you make the the draft I\u0027m okay with doing it you know using string when you want to as long as the draft can be written such that we can build interoperable converters that always do it the same way and can go back and forth I understood so I would try to make sure that this point is created between a draft so that we do not have any confusion in the future thank you but Jordan I have a quick question on the underscore ml is that meant to be I guess a string type or a designation or is that like some sort of encoding for language or can you clarify what that is for me sorry thank you for the question Underberg ml is datatype provided for the multilingual support that is a kind of basic design of the original I your dev in XML okay yes thank you Dave altameyer like it\u0027s a clarifying question so I was looking through the draft and you know there are things in IO def like string reference oh no I\u0027m sorry software reference that make use of the XML any type which means that you can embed arbitrary XML content and and niño def if on the subject of round-tripping so being able to go from XML to JSON you know back to XML do you do you have any thoughts on how you you\u0027ll support those there\u0027s round trips of that arbitrary XML content if I understood you correctly this comment is not exactly on this issue but I\u0027m sorry I can I can wait I mean generally speaking my understanding so your question is about how we can convert any type to XML right that\u0027s right difficult I guess one way of converting any type into JSON is using a base64 base64 encoding based on that I want to convert it back to XML so I not want to change any structure of the XML document I just want to convert it into a string by using this 64 coding in this way we can make it back to what is you know okay thank you so I will just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:38",
    "text": "come back to the rainiest later but I couldn\u0027t hear any object at this moment so for now I will try to go to the right-hand side solution if you have any objection please let me know later on the mailing list so binary strings yes the X I\u0027m saying okay the X I usually fight until has two type of binary string first my the basics you fall other one it\u0027s extra decimal I wonder whether we did both was in for Jason I mean for XML this is fine but for Jason maybe we can use only one of them that could be helpful simplified I don\u0027t know I\u0027m not expert on this area who might be a point just using hexadecimal or this conversion would be straightforward if you have any comment I would like to hear Christmas he\u0027ll Carnegie Mellon pick one and go with it yeah okay thank you my vote is you don\u0027t have to support both just pick one write down what that one isn\u0027t according to wiki hexadecimal seems to be much more shorter right so back to Rome engineer CMU so back to the case where I want to take JSON converted to XML and then convert it back to JSON or the other way XML to JSON back to XML if you don\u0027t support both you\u0027re gonna lose that the original XML document was encoded with whatever representation that you dropped is that okay it wouldn\u0027t be the same document okay so cristinaw Co Carnegie Mellon I\u0027m gonna stop saying the Carnegie Mellon does it matter is there a nuance in the XML version where you\u0027d care that it was what encoding I don\u0027t know we would probably really have to sweep the io def XML document to ask whether there aren\u0027t certain places where data is it explicitly says it needs to be hex encoded I I don\u0027t remember we\u0027d have to sweep it if only talk you had a co-author who could work on that it\u0027s an action and take into consideration yeah thank you I guess we have to review anyway thank you for the discussion I know one is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:38",
    "text": "again with we can make it more simple or not last question so I found out that these hype classes in IO 2002 has only one element for XML this is very important for the semantic purpose but for Jason this is just extra space why don\u0027t we just omit those classes for Jason that\u0027s a question these five classes have only one element for Jason this is just the exhaust pace for XML this is fine and for this part stuff we can combat it back to original original we can make a rule for changing back to normal so just a Steven bang her earnest just to clarify when you say remove these elements or classes rather you mean in XML it\u0027s a class in JSON it just becomes a key value pair and that\u0027s that\u0027s it or completely removed them so so good sorry we have a three class these the parent class referred user element in the middle class even has only one element that is a solid class so I want to just combine I think the frost graph and three okay I see a so it\u0027s a it\u0027s a parent that only has just one one John okay that makes sense yeah that that makes sense to me Roman didn\u0027t you see mu yeah I mean again I think it\u0027s great to use the idea of can you go XML JSON and get the XML back those are container classes I think a number of them don\u0027t have any kind of data so what we would just have to put in the draft are more complicated parsing or converting guidance to say hey you know there\u0027s semantics in the nesting in JSON so it\u0027s okay for Jason yeah I would say it\u0027s okay I mean we would just need a document you know document that my time is up so let me come back to the mailing list on this thank you very much okay the battery is dying on this one too so it has been a well I mean an inside the in all the rooms that the mics were terrible okay so what I wanted to do was revisit the milestones and go "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:39",
    "text": "through it just to make sure that both were on track and to figure out what we do moving forward so currently I\u0027m scheduling to have the XMPP grid ready hopefully after the Thanksgiving break if if not a week or so after that so the intent there is to do another working with less call roli is really completed I mean it\u0027s already going through in in the I just looked at the status and it\u0027s in the iesg oh my machine just so I\u0027m not sure we\u0027re being optimistic but we know that it\u0027s an in the path for publication that\u0027s the intent to say there let me defer the discussion on what we do with a role ec cert because right now it\u0027s not an adopted working group item so that I think merits more discussion the json io def we did adopt we\u0027ve got the first draft has well you just posted it today so i would encourage people to review it I think I might just put out a request for a reviewers just so we could help get the momentum going on the list and go from there so given that it seemed like before the we talked about the sea cert extension we really had no other working group items so we\u0027re looking at like can we just talk about closing the group when we\u0027re done but before I do that let me talk about the Rolly c-cert extension draft so it\u0027s currently not an adopted working group item I had posted I believe at least once for review and adoption we only received one review and comment and the comment was that it didn\u0027t belong it wasn\u0027t part of the Charter so even though we had whoops even though within the group here at the Prague face-to-face we did the hum there was enough interest in the mail list nobody but the one questioning response came to so I wanted to open up the discussion here but would also encourage that when we put the call for adoption and approval on the list even though you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:41",
    "text": "voted here you also need to vote on the list does that make sense yeah you guys have questions no room and in new CMU I was just gonna quickly respond to the fact that there was a little feedback on the role EC sir draft I have feedback I promised to drop on the mailing list as soon as I could type it all in okay Dave Walter Mayer I guess I\u0027m a co-author on it I actually have interest in that I actually have interest in implementing the draft so I I don\u0027t want to hide behind the fact that I\u0027m you know write writing the draft I actually plan on using the draft and and think that that the work is important of a specific interest is also being able to expand on some of the sticks related capabilities in the Caesar extension that\u0027s something that\u0027s kind of underdeveloped in the current draft and it\u0027s something that we would also like to to do some experimentation around within my organization of using Roli to serve a Styx content as well so just to be clear I don\u0027t believe Styx is in the Charter so we need to be careful with what we\u0027re trying to do agree on that however the c-cert extension declares all of the support for IO def you had that chart up at the beginning of the working group meeting showing the restful block for transporting io def there yes so that C sort extension is really combined with the Roli core what fulfills that block on your on the little Charter chart there and right so I\u0027m okay extending and saying that the c-cert draft because it\u0027s mapping to Roley can be in charter what I\u0027m trying to say is is I\u0027m not seeing enough interest right I\u0027d like to see more than just one one organization I will say right that shows interest right and I think I think that\u0027s reasonable I would welcome everybody to come in and and post up on list sorry I\u0027m vertically challenged Bret Jordan editor and author of Styx co-chair of taxi I really like what you\u0027ve done with Rowley and I would like to work on a draft to make a JSON representation of Roly but I don\u0027t want "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:41",
    "text": "it to go off and do all the work if this working group is not interested in a JSON based version of Roly so I would like to know if this I\u0027m talking about the draft first oh I\u0027m sorry I apologize totally fine so we will we will put that question next but I guess to this group what I\u0027d like to get a sense of is again is there enough interest and besides the authors to pursue the Rolie c-cert draft towards adoption in the working group cristinaw CEO Carnegie Mellon I actually have read it I just didn\u0027t post anything I can post something okay so I\u0027m okay reissuing the interest on the mail list but again I will reiterate right that if I don\u0027t see enough interest sorry if we the chairs don\u0027t see enough interest I don\u0027t see how I can even make the calls for adoption as a working group so I assure you you need to speak up talking that\u0027s right I have one question I see the value of the CSAT extension if we can change the scope of the mile as somebody said maybe Styx is very important to support I also think so if we can change the charter somehow and can support sticks as well I also have interest that\u0027s a point well taken but again I don\u0027t believe Styx is in our charter so once we get to that part we can talk about which is why we talk about no more work items if there are then we need to talk about reach are during the group okay so I don\u0027t like coming is it okay if I ask for a show of hands huh you want me to look at you want me to put the Charter oh okay yeah so I just wanted to to get a sense of because it\u0027s hard to talk in here show of hands if there is enough interest and I\u0027ll just put it should I put out in the mail list to get review feedback as well as interest in working on the rural EC cert draft can I have a show of hands okay so I will put it out "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:45",
    "text": "and put the question on on the list please make sure just because you raised your hand here doesn\u0027t mean that it will propagate so when I put it out to the mail Adam I get to chair this one okay so with that Brett you wanted to put a JSON flavor to the c-cert - to Rolly Rolly okay yes I would be interested in working on in and submitting a draft to this working group for a JSON binding I guess you would call it for Rolly but I don\u0027t want to go off and do all that work and write all the content if this working group is not interested in it at all so I would like to propose I\u0027m running us over so if you guys don\u0027t mind staying for another three minutes quick Dave yeah I just wanted to this is Dave ultra Meier I wanted to point out that we had this conversation at IETF 99 and I need to go back and check the notes but I my recollection was that there was strong support in the room to have to have us do work on creating a JSON representation for Rolly let\u0027s get it so that you\u0027re supposed to be a note-taker Roman is taking notes so we\u0027ll have it so again let\u0027s do a show of hands is there interest in the group to see work being for a json representation enrollee okay so what does that mean what so what is like what what does it really mean to do that so right now the the atom pub data model is is an NX the the atom data model is an XML this would be creating a constrained version of the atom XML format that serves our purposes rolly because I don\u0027t think we want to go to the larger scope of creating a JSON version of atom syndication format because that\u0027s a much larger array over guys so Bret I think you have the indication that there is enough interest so you\u0027re welcome to put a draft together thank you and put it up on the list if you don\u0027t want to wait until the London meeting so with that I apologize Iran is way over but I think we have some marching orders have a good Thanksgiving good holiday and we\u0027ll talk over the list thanks everyone "
  }
]