[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "I want to show you share a picture with you oh please do can you read it is it big enough uh yes what on Earth is that an IPv6 six-man thread all of them no no no look it's just you know it's just from the 23rd and a little bit from the this morning you know what are they talking about I wonder nobody had has any idea so this is not an email conversation but what they call a slow chat I guess no it's email that's email no but I mean when you're using an email like you would use a chat they call it slow chat oh that's good I like that okay it's yeah I I I I justlike that a lot I'm going to remember it it's good yeah nobody was listening to each other obviously you know yes but of course uh just like hello hello so I am moving I am moving things down so that I can actually stare at the camera instead of above it um so let's let's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "see um what do we need to I know I know what we need to do because I think I have just finished uh putting everything in the uh Hedgehog um with one possible exception um for cool um so uh Michael um who wants to drive what um I don't know I think that we have one topic um which is the uh Ayana considerations for flock and and um I could agree with you on that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "um and um I would suggest uh that um we take a peek at actually there's one there's one more discuss I'd like to uh discuss it's a bit strange I discuss look what item I would like to discuss and that's um [Music] the making a few documents normative because in the um encapsulations um section of the document I had some questions about that yeah I've I've got the uh other open discuss questions down here so um but but but uh let's not totally Jump Ahead although it is tempting um see um if uh let's see so this is us and our usual boiler plate and uh Spencer has cleverly not put the uh stuff in GitHub for this yet uh but um we will uh but everything everything else for the for the inter meeting but everything else should be close at least um and so letting everybody sign in and stuff like that um and we had draft minutes from uh oh I did not update that I'm sorry um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:03",
    "text": "where am I um so this is our previous meeting and uh bichael is good and put in meeting minutes for that so um I can do this update this okay now um do we need to take a do we need to take a look at the minutes from uh our previous meeting has I'm sorry let me rephrase that has anybody had a chance to look at them yet well I used them because there were a few uh to-dos on the flock issues that I used I guess two months I I haven't really I haven't really read anything except that but I just did uh a bit I don't know I guess they're fine good so um sorry I'm I'm just making sure that I have my uh alarm turned off there um so would you be okay if we said uh no objections minutes passed yes no no yes perfect um did I not did I change that Michael the DAT the the date of our last meeting was uh yeah no I just noting that it was that oh the one was cancel month because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "that can't be right and then I went oh no no we canel it that's why I yeah I I yeah um cool so and uh we have two documents in uh isg evaluation and um which one the uh uh seller tags document has been uh updated and uh I think everything else's as it was um if I if I saw that correctly and uh so we are celebrating uh that uh we are celebrating that uh matasa has its discuss has cleared and so we'll talk about anything else we need to do and we have one discuss which is with several occurrences which is not bad for Flack and uh just as I was looking at the at the Milestones um Michael um we have some fairly old I can share that here we have some fairly old um dates for uh for the uh the these specifications here uh and are we marking if we were if we were what yeah I'm loaded in we should be able to do this um do you remember both the top of your head how we uh Mark things done how we should what Mark things down done done in the mil in the milestones"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:04",
    "text": "well I mean so technically we've submitted metosa to the isg already and we've uh submitted flak to the isg already right we're just not done submitting it so I don't know what well well I but I I uh Spencer's opinion is that uh once it leaves the working group we done okay sounds good to so uh we're we actually have okay so two things one is that um we still have ff1 I don't think we can do that without I don't think we can mark it done without our ad I think we can oh we edit Milestones right uh okay um so uh first first question we have uh seller codec and seller tags uh also listed as Associated documents for matasa yep um are we are we putting those in a different Milestone or I would say we have to duplicate the Milestone or something or I don't know what okay um and um so mostly and and uh the what is it the uh chapter uh I noticed this that the uh chapter uh M the I'm sorry the chapter uh document was not listed in the m in the associated documents yet so um it would be nice for us to right do something with that also um and why don't we say let's create a milestone for trasa Associated documents"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "moves codc and tags there and um and and add the chapter yeah cool yeah um for for okay for that and for it would be good for us to talk about uh dates for uh that um target date I think we should come back to that when we're done that sounds like a deal think we should come back yeah not I mean not just done this meeting but I mean when we're done the um uh um when we're done with these two documents and I think the working group will have a better idea what when What's um yes how how busy who's going to be doing what in the meantime yes exactly perfect okay excellent um so uh cheating and moving this back [Music] over here yeah Okay cool so we talked about that one and so our next our next thing on the agenda was uh are there any open comments on uh matasa now that we have cleared the disc the last discuss not as far as I know I I don't know if El wi what's his name clear things I just realized last week that still there was still some things pending from his comments which I fixed this weekend and so that's why I made a new document and I think everything he raised was addressed so I think it should be good and that was the last remaining uh bits of things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "to address as far as I know so for me it's done okay cool you're submitting uh like this week yeah on Sunday I sent yeah I could just say in a week or two yeah and I noticed when I submitted that the that there was a deadline for 27 Oh yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes so that's why I also sent the the tax one which had a lot of changes so it's not cut off for the next time uh we have talked multiple times about uh saying that we're not going to enforce the uh the uh ID blackout period before an ITF meeting for stuff that has already left the working group group uh and uh if you're if you're not able to submit that we have obviously not made that change yet no I think we just we have to send it to the ad you send the XML file to the ad and he posts it that that works too excellent okay cool um and so that's matasa so so our next thing would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "be uh for us to talk about Flack and so we have uh one discuss from Roman and uh we have beyond that we have enough positions to pass once the once we clear the discuss um and I know that been a a decent amount of of uh email conversation about this already um what um where are we on um the registry location yeah the thing is I um brought it up a few months ago and I am not sure what we discussed then what we decided um now it seems that most ads of most people on the isg have the opinion that it should be an Ayana registry I don't think that's a problem I don't think um there is really a community of flock people that want to have it with ziv h so I think it's fine I just don't uh I can just copy from the matosa document I guess um the allocation would be first come first serve first served I guess the policy um oh um are we talking and I'm sorry I'm I'm I'm taking notes also uh maybe I should be trying to do one one thing at a time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:04",
    "text": "um so um we so we understand the uh questions from the isg which is basically um the isg and the ITF that they represent thinks that if something is um under a control that uh it's not going to go away suddenly um and uh they don't have the same confidence about most other uh URLs that we might put in documents uh so so that the thing is that it's just not just the URL or the reference and that the page stays there but the problem is also that um there have been years where the registry was not maintained so if hypothetically I don't think it happened but if someone would have uh sent an email to the flock Dev mailing list asking for uh registration between I think 2009 and 2016 it would not have been picked up so I'm not actually confident that the registry is complete it might have been that there have been people they would have got a number then wouldn't have gotten a number back right yes of course so did they just pick their own maybe okay well if we discover that to be the case then um there's ways of getting them and someone says oh but I have number 22 um unless it's in conflict with another one um that we have ways of getting that into the a registry after I didn't I don't think that's a concern a big concern to me no no I I didn't mean that would be a concern but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "it would be a reason to put it in the I uh uh bring the redry to the aenna because then that won't happen again agreed agreed so I think it's a good idea okay and um so um yeah so uh was that 2009 to 14 you said the the Gap period I think it was 16 2009 20 2016 okay cool um so uh yeah I don't think the maintainer at the time after 2016 even would have known what you would mean if you would ask for registration uh would be have I think the past maintainer would have had a lot of question marks if you said I want to register an application idea okay so registry has been in bad shape so am I remembering uh so so this is Spencer asking the question that Spencer thinks he knows the answer to we would not uh plan to do any cleanup from that or or would we plan to uh ask the commu ask the flat Community um of any any other um any other uh values that are in use no I think but but but not registered I don't think think it's necessary I've checked the mailing list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "during that time and I haven't found anything on it um there has there was at some point uh a form but you know internet forms and websites usually don't work so uh I would have expected people who send in a form and didn't hear back within a month to ask the mailing list and there's nothing on the mailing list so I don't think there's anything there are any Loose Ends but might be yeah but I don't think it's necessary in lip Flack the list of IDs also in the code no no it's just uh it's not somewhere in the code it's just a list of really third party ideas if if you want some metad data block for your own application you use that ID and it's nothing nowhere in the code of flu code so pretty much no one uses that apart from the few triade no not really okay cool uh um so I guess I can just copy uh one of the aana registry forms from the matosa document because there's one another first Comer served I guess yeah that sounds right okay I think that's the right policy first com first served because there's no need to uh there has never been a need to do anything formal like add a specification"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "or something the current entries don't have a specification either so uh and so we would it would be good to say that that matches uh Flack practice in the past okay and um I've just i' I've just been through uh I've just been through uh coming up with a de with changes to a uh an a section in another document within the past 10 days so uh even if I wasn't the shepherd feel free to make me do work uh well I can ask you to write it or well uh uh tell me what you think it should look like and and I can I can review it uh even before you uh need to submit it if you want to do okay I'll I'll do a PR on GitHub and uh yeah tag you in it perfect um okay perfect um other open um discuss questions well one thing I have problems with is that I sometimes don't know how to reply to things for example if you scroll down a little there's one question asking what is a brightly colored fish uh I don't know I've been asking myself that um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "there's there's a list of uh picture types so yeah is a list with um um Ben Ben of cover of the record and bent logo and stuff like that and there's one old entry it's a brightly colored fish um I I suppose it's a joke um I've been I've been looking all over the Internet for the answer someone says it's a red hering so it's uh it's a plot device to keep you looking somewhere else you know um I don't know it's it's it's it's copied straight from the um the ID3 version two specification um there's no real need to change it if I if it would change then or it would removed uh well it was copied from the ID3 version two document so implementers would have no need to work with two different tables but you know I can't really answer that question I can only say I don't know it was copied it's probably a joke so I I know that I know that we had maybe we should just document it as like April one allocation and go on okay yeah well but I'm not sure maybe it's not a joke but I can't think of anything else but but but but you can say you can say without of of contradiction where it came from yes I get so so if you if you do that um then we don't have to explain the joke okay so some of uh so some of the ads have a good sense of humor some of them don't um so uh don't you know don't start out uh with the with the uh don't start out assuming we can think makes them think it's funny okay um I'll so should I specifically address that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "entry 17 is 17 right uh yeah entry 17 is probably a joke stemming from the ID3 version two document or because uh the document already says that the whole block is copied from the ID3 version two specification so should I specifically point out that this probably a joke or um I I don't I don't think you even need to say that you just um okay so so uh is so this is is this the first uh document you've worked on that's gone through the isg yes okay Co okay so I uh so basically uh you are getting emails and uh they have questions they have comments and uh statements and comments and questions and stuff like that from the different ads so uh so um you can just reply to those uh you know Point by Point as you go through them uh and then the ads are uh expected to read your responses and say oh I get it or I still have a question or whatever you know um and if if you if you do that just point by Point um going back going back to the ad who said that um that you know then uh that you you're having the you're you're having the conversation with the person you need to have the conversation with okay so um and uh this is RO Roman there's no need to specifically there's no need to specifically address every discus comment in the document I can just right right if I feel like there's no need to really explain it well you can say well there's a question"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "so probably the document needs to explain it not uh because someone didn't understand but uh in this case probably it's just enough to reply like you know it's probably a joke it stems from that document and yeah uh that should well because basically anybody anybody who needs to be using that value because they are doing stuff that's based on that document uh that it would be their job to figure out what a brightly colored fish is we don't we don't we don't need to have ITF consensus on what a brightly colored fish is okay all the IDS in that list coming from ID3 V2 MH yes the the the tables really copied one uh Direct so probably list it as informative or normative reference because yes was one of the it was one of the comment of uh Roman 2 uh that's uh there should probably be a reference yeah once you link that to the reference then it's not your problem to say why there's 17 value is that name it's somewhere else probably a good idea yeah perfect cool and there was one other thing um I mailed it in Roman sent the discus and the comment and then he sent me a mail in private I think the chairs got it too um and I replied to that specifically on so the working the rest of the working group didn't get that email if I'm not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "mistaken um it was on um the containers so it's the bullet point with starts with Section 10 since the document is describing normative behavior on embedded on embedding this work into another container that other container needs to named be named normatively um the funny thing is that has the case in the past but then I got id id nits warnings that it's a down ref so I changed the two informative references um probably stupid to do that I don't know no I mean that that that so so that's going to that's going to be resolved in one of two ways uh one is one is what you did and if that's the right thing to do you did the right thing and the other way is for uh us to to tell Murray oh this this you know as this becomes normative you know we did the right thing but as this becomes normative uh we need we just need to Ping the community and say um we have noticed this down ref does anyone object to us uh pointing to you know pointing to this this document that that that that that's a perfectly fine thing to do and that that's that's what the that's the ad's uh job basically um but that would be uh so we would be uh looking at uh a and uh matasa as normative references yes but I had the well the problem with that is we described three mappings uh to our complete and the third in uh on mapping to uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:04",
    "text": "MP4 that is incomplete it says so the the mapping to MP4 is so so extensive that it's not included in the document and here's a summary but if we make a and matosa normative reference then I would think uh MP4 would be needing would be uh would need to be an informative reference normative reference as well but that document uh is not free not freely accessible cost you 98 Euros to uh to read it I don't think on that point on that point um so um we are not we are we are mentioning them and that's okay um you don't need to read the MP3 uh uh was that what you said was it MP3 or MP4 um you don't need to read that to implement flak for atrasa and that's what we're describing right so that's an informative reference and uh you know we're also not describing all of it because it's not our container and it's not free and well actually the document is describing how to put Flack in MP4 that's the third uh so it describes three encapsulate to or to Mosa to MP4 but you said the MP4 document is not is is not available yes uh wait wait SL slow slow slow down for a second um is it not available or is it available for a price so the MP4 document is available for a price okay that's that's not the same as not being available okay sorry and well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "it is actually option you you are Flack in MP4 is only one part of flag so you don't need the MP4 for uh document if you don't care about MP4 so yes I age but the the Roman said so if you describe uh if you describe um flock and or you need to have or as an normative reference and if you describe U FL in matosa you need to have metosa as a normative reference so if you describe Flack in MP4 you need to read MP4 as a normative reference and for the ads to um accept the document they would have to they would need to read4 document might they might have to read it yeah so uh you know what uh let's ask our ad what they would like us to do um one of the options is to just remove the text yes I was thinking of that too just remove it just say okay the flag and MP4 specification is out of scope it's in this document this document is already linked that's a text document somewhere on a GitHub and we just remove the summary and then say okay it's out of scope done I just remove the summary and we say yeah oh we described Flack and or and we described flag and metosa but we are not going to describe fling MP4 we have MP4 uh in the ffb1 document also so I check how it is normative or not haven't gotten far enough with that to well the are because it is the same thing we we have a mapping of ffv1 in MP4 exactly as those are I'm pretty sure that was an informative reference but apparently no one noticed that during isg evaluation I think right I I that too such such"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "things so thef process is not an exact science uh I I I I gave you that let me let me say let me say let me tell you what I think we just said and tell me if I'm confused so we said uh our proposal is that we would remove the text from our document uh as out of scope and that we would point to the MP4 doc as an informative reference um get copy yeah I'm sorry because we can't definitively say whether it's it's accurate or not without having people review the document that they don't have access to so essentially why would we bother to to include that you know except to note that it exists but we don't know whether it's we don't know what we don't we cannot provide a reviewable uh vers version that is authoritative BEC and so because we can't we can't do that we can't be authoritative okay so uh a another working group that Murray is responsible for is avt Corp and uh they have been having a screaming up jumping up and down fit over a um over a uh informative normative reference uh and uh it's been handled about as badly as it is possible to um as as it is possible to handle a situation um and I've been paying attention to that so um let's let's let's try to make Murray's life easy by doing the right thing not just to make Murray's life easy um so well that that that's that that's that's always that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "always a fair thing to do another another possibility is to tell him this is what we think the right answer is do you have any objections um do so so so my qu so my question is do we care so do we do do we think it's important to the uh flat Community to be able to encapsulate this stuff in MP4 it is already done in practice so actually we don't really care so much about that the thing is the the flag document that we have now at the ITF only has a summary of how to encapsulate because it already refers to another document right uh for the actual encapsulation with the you know because that's a document of I think 20 Pages or something it was way too extensive to include so what I'm proposing now is remove the summary so there is no doubt about whether or not this specification this document specifies Flack and MP4 it now kind of um does and kind of doesn't because it includes a summary and we can just say if you want to encapsulate Flack and MP4 go read that document that's in informative pay your 94 and done yeah well so and I want to say this out 95 is historically not too much money for the ITF to expect people implementers to uh pay to implement Implement a specification uh there are people who uh become irritated by that from time to time but um the the most I've heard somebody being charged for a document that was trying to be an it F uh normative reference was $4,000 okay I would I would I would I I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "somebody could tell me that's not available enough but 95 EUR isn't that also um it is often common well it is it it happens often that we contact the people who uh control a specification and this is actually what's going on with the thing in AV core uh saying saying that uh we have reviewers who need to uh who will not be implementing this but they need to uh make sure our document it that that hand waves in that direction is uh is accurate uh can you you know can you give us review copies and that and and that commonly the answer is yes so if if hanging on to that and our document was important I would be happy to have that argument with Murray um if if we don't think it's super important I would be let me let me ask the other dumb question so when somebody comes up with another container format which is not MP4 matasa or a um we're not going to be surpr we're not going to be surprised that somebody has to go read you know container x uh document in order to make that happen does that sound about right yes it is the reason that for in this case uh the person who Implement Flack in MP4 has the document for sure yeah so that so that but but so that uh the fact that the fact that there's an mp4 document that or that describes how to do this uh that's interesting but uh we can Al you know we can say basically we're describing uh a and matasa uh as container formats and uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "other you know that there's nothing that ties Flack to either one of those container formats I think right and if that's true no no it does so so that basically you know other container formats could be used they're just not described in this document and if you say that um I think that yeah I think that's a perfectly reasonable thing to do yes I I think that's the best way to resolve this just refer to the documents um yeah yeah just like I said just say there you know if you if you're using another container format there's there's no dependency in flak on the ones that are described in this document but if you're um if you're using another container format um you know that you'll need to figure out how to how to do that and for MP4 the good news is um I'm I want to do that so uh MP4 thinks there's already a document so you should order that but we don't have to say that okay I'll I'll think on it um I don't think there are any other uh discuss comments that it made me very nervous um so I think I can handle the rest the thing is only um it's a bit uh embarrassing to say but I I'm in a bit of a burnout currently and I'm the process of trying to buying buy a house so I I I'm not sure we we we celebrate we celebrate that with you number one um you uh number two uh you would not be the first person or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "the last person to uh be slightly burned out by uh a document you've been working on uh it's not because of that but it's it's just all things together we we seriously we we celebrate with you so uh but I would like to say um usually I would handle these uh in well I've handled this previousely very quickly um I would have liked to handle this with well before this meeting but it's not going to happen Okay so so take the time you need to to to get over those th those things okay um we're not in a particular Rush we're also recognized that um uh so where are we we're in the isg review so uh so they're not going to come back and and getting them to clear their discusses and stuff in the next month is going to be a hassle anyway so don't rush on that that side um is what I would say as well um and um don't try to buy a house that contains flag I I just wanted to uh I just wanted to uh well say that you know it might take a while longer than you're expected H well then I usually take for these things to this okay I guess that's all for FL um if you um so I know we've been talking about this stuff on the mailing list uh I was not paying close attention to um whether uh the isg or individual ads were uh were copied on any of that uh discussion sometimes I'm not yes so Bas basic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "basically um the the one thing that the one thing that I would suggest and if you and um okay I'm not going to pick a date I'm not going to pick a date I'm GNA say the first thing that I would do if I were you is to just go through and compose an email uh for the discuss questions and comments and the comment questions and comments from Roman and then there uh from what Paul Warren and uh uh zah and uh Eric um and uh and uh any you know any any uh any responses there if you'd like me to look at those responses I would be happy to just so just so you're not uh just so you're not trying to negotiate with people that you don't know does that help um well I'll I'll have a think on it thanks okay yeah like I said just just just just tell us tell us how we can help that that that's something that Martin will you be in Prague for the no time to wait I I won't be in prog okay we had Dave he was part of the meeting but now he's not do the rest of you be in Prague oh yes I will Spencer is actually not in Prague this time and Spencer is irritated about that but anyway okay Ste no you come or not don't no no it's too far for me okay just wondered okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:14",
    "text": "thanks okay cool um did we have uh are there any so no other uh comment go go ahead for information about ffv1 uh v0 to V3 um mik Nida worked on a a patch on a specific issue it is uh when the width or height of the the picture is OD and when there there is some coma sub Subs something uh the the behavior of the reference encoder and the coder is not good and the specification is not very clear about this topic so yeah Mikel sent on the FFM devil list a proposal of patch for that and uh I need to review it a bit more I did the first review but I need to do another review and uh if this patch is accepted we we will have to do some kind of erata on the ffv1 uh v0 to V specification so it is a very Corner case it is just like uh if you have a chroma sampling and uh pixel with for example of 1001 uh there is such kind of issue so the encoding and the decoding is wrong it is very rare in practice Nobody Does that but yeah there is such kind of issue and we and and we will do the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "right thing of course so whatever that is the the fix for that is not completely easy and yeah it would Rec narata somewhere okay so um any other business no no okay then cool the next meeting is December 5th although I guess uh I don't think we should try to do something at no time to wait um seeing as it we have some conflicts and remote access and stuff like that and not every will be there anyway so I think December 5th will be fine cool cool uh and just just just to just to uh be clear about uh what Spencer was trying to bla was blathering when he was saying this before um if if if we decide that we need to uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "have so I okay I have not looked so is a is a standards track or informational uh or is informational so that would be a down ref okay so um so so and we're going to we're going to that so that's a thing that that's a thing that uh Spencer should uh follow up with Murray on uh an update into the shepher right up cool uh we'll do uh matosa is standard track right yep yeah yeah uh so if flock comes out of uh RFC editor before matosa then it will have to wait for matasa to finish first right yes yeah but but but mrr's got all the ballots it needs to uh to uh pass so um yeah I don't think it will happen but I don't know uh yeah how RFC editor works maybe uh someone will take if it if we if you did beat it into the RFC editor queue then you would just wait until it was published it's called a misre and um it happens all the time and the worst case was the document weighted five years well and the the worst case the well the wor the worst cases are the ones where uh you're depending on a document in another working group that the other working group has lost interest in so that's not that's not actually the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "case usually usually you fix it somehow but anyway that was a yeah yeah yeah yeah uh everything Michael said was true it was 89 RFC 8990 it was really sad but anyway cool um and um is there anything else we need to talk about business for us not at cool um thank you guys uh and I apologize for being slightly uh fragmented uh the since the last meeting and uh really impressed that uh we've gotten as much stuff as we have done with almost no input for me good job [Laughter] job great thank you again Martin yeah thank thank you all da yes Jerome thanks thank you by thanks so see you in the Sumer then y sounds like a deal bye bye guys bye for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:23",
    "text": "for"
  }
]
