[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:02",
    "text": "for people who wanna go to the my line. So please do sign in now. It it will be very difficult if you do the... Oh I'm walking to the line and fu with my phone. So please do sign in now if you think that there's any chance Actually, you should be signing in ways. We're in a very large room. And who know this is our first working group meeting. It's nice if the Etf can get feeling for actually how many you know, people might come to future peak with. So It's twelve straight up, we'll give it actually no one's coming in, so we can do it. Ahead. Okay. Thank you everyone for coming forward the first meeting of the T working group at It of hundred and six we have some exciting again the items to go through. So let's just start ready. Just to give you a little bit of an understanding of what this group is about this stands for post quantum and it came out to be after several discussions on the Sac release and later on the P at Iot dot org my list. If you want to continue any kind of discussions of the talks that we see here or any other important topic that you think it's important to to this community, please send an email to the list. We also have now a working group charter, which is that the output of this be expanded to inform critical work and guidance developed by other working groups in the Etf. Consistent with all the Working groups this working wall will also rely on that side entities for example or Cf to define new mechanisms. That's just one paragraph out of a longer charter. So please if you're like can I bring up such and such? Please read the Charter first. Why don't I do these since I've been here? Much longer than you. So It's the end of the week. There's a note well that many of you seen, I will show it again very briefly here. You can't read it, It's too small."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "But you you agreed to this note well. When you registered. But it's worth reading again. I know it's the end of day. I'm not we read it now. But The note well applies also to the mailing list, not just in the face to face meetings. So please do read that It's it actually applies to many places. So thank you. So again, here's the obligatory, you can't read it. And then we also have the F code of conduct which in one bullet one bullet is, please treat each other with respect. It is also worth reading. And again, it applies to the mailing list as much as it does to face to face meetings, here are a couple of excerpts from it, but it is well worth reading seeing end in the week, some of us are getting a little bit cranky, Some of us didn't get enough sleep last night it really is important for us to treat each other well. The... It is it is easy to have a working group where people think that they can contribute and then feel like they aren't welcome. Because someone was grow at them or someone was grow at somebody else and they feel unsafe. So you know, we've got ninety minutes left on this meeting, you know, So let's let's let's be extra nice to each other. Yes. We have a lot of not a lot bus three items to go in agenda. Yeah. Okay. The first one is going to be having a little bit of track that has been in the making is the hybrid terminology document. We also have a document that is currently also to make, which is a guidance of Ptc for engineers. And of course, we were recently of the main days. There was also this idea to create his grand list working groups and product calls that should be looking at P algorithms so that Are currently having specific documents to take into account Ptc. That is not going to become a draft or an I It's just a github list where"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "currently going to maintain as part of the working group. Now, of course, at the end, we can go for other the working group. Business. So Sophie and I have one already for other work group business, but there might be others after that all depending on time. So we'll we'll hit that at the end any bashing of the agenda at this point. Not seeing any in the queue Why aren't you listed... Oh you are listed that you're good. I was gonna to say, you are as much of a chair as I we're more awake than. So here why don't we Yes. So fast, we have of course, service. Yep. the hybrid document, which is something that was brought up because there has been some misunderstanding or what is specific kind of words we should be using when we fair to postpone quantum. So we actually discussing about the terminology, we'll have also had some really fruitful discussion on the mailing list. It has been a disagreement about whether we should create new hopefully better terminology we should just reuse what is currently right now is being used at other organization's study or from the academic literature. Right now, we actually believe that is ready to become a working group document And so let's at this point, in the agenda, we can go into that. Which is fiber. Don't wait. One What do I do here? To stop Okay. We have Florence to talk about precisely that specific draft. Go ahead. Awesome. Thanks. Hi, everyone. Last session of the week, but it's okay because it's the most exciting session of the week. So, yeah. I'm gonna talk about the terminology for post quantum"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "hybrid schemes, name asterisk names still subject change. Draft that Po fair I've just been talking about. Next slide, please? So I just really wanted to as quickly as possible so introduce this draft. I know that not everyone will have been insect dispatch when we discussed it last time. I wasn't planning in going into the details of some of the discussion on the mailing list, but there's a few bonus slides at the end that you can look at after or well now. If you want Yeah. So, you know, we we all know that Protocols going to need to be updated for post quantum algorithms. And during this transition period that Well, there is a desire for protocols, which is both post and traditional algorithms. Hybrids. Terminology is a challenge for a range of reasons which I'll going to on a light slide, So at sectors dispatch two meetings ago, we proposed this draft. And adoption of A draft on technology is a milestones p. We've published a few more versions since sec dispatch zero two version is up now. Please take a look. Next slide, please. Cool. Yeah. So this is the proposal. Kind of the aims are I guess the aims correspond to the challenges with terminology. Ensuring consistency across at the very least different protocols within the but ideally, like, different standards in other bodies, different organizations, and as much as possible to have to line with the academic community. Also want to make it clearer what security properties a particular hybrid construct claims. We don't... There are multiple reasons why you might want to use a hybrid and it's useful to have some language for that. We want to ensure easier comparison of solutions kind of related"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:04",
    "text": "to the above point. And we also want to pull all the discussion about terminology into this draft so that everyone else can get on with defining their price protocols. While we talk about language Go. Next slide, please. This is the content. I won't go for it, but this is it. You can see the slide. Next slide, please. So, yeah, I I said I'd be as quick possible. I suppose the the big thing question is, is this ready for adoption by quick pick whip. And also if not like why not? I can keep updating this draft with sort of things what I think. But that's probably not not very useful. So I'd like to know what the group thinks. And then I suppose perhaps for the mailing list, but happy to hear. And the my line, like, does the language we've got at the minute work are we missing things stuff like. So... Yeah. That's that's all I had to say. And yeah, the remaining slides do take a look if you're interested in my thoughts on some of the choices we've made so far. Yeah. Any questions? Yep. We already have some people on the queue. So diego My apologies, it was not intended, but just to say one thing that No. When it comes to the work to the work where we have suffered these in other groups. In which people started to work with naming the same thing differently or or using the same name for different things. Having this is quite interesting, so it's when it comes to thinking about adopting etcetera if you are I think it's something that is really needed to to start with So Yep."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "Thank you. We have Yeah. So I certainly this is ready for adoption, you know, given it is charter this working group and it is the only submitted job it's silly way to have it be an submission where you can revise it. Can you go back one slide? Yes. I I do think that P q is like an in invisible, like, an imp name here. Like it's gotta be a word it's gotta be, like, one word. And and I know hyper have loaded maybe know else but like like, people aren't gonna say peak slash. I like it any mean, you know, the way way terminology works you know, in the organizations like this is like, even can resume many documents you want, but, like it's like a massive option part problem. And so, like, it's gotta be a word that is good enough the people to be like you know, were like adopted on the road without you haven't to go to every meeting, you'd be like, stop say hi. Yeah say you. If you have suggestions for word, then that would be great. If it's just hybrid that's that's also fine. I know a lot of people don't like just using hybrid. No. Mean, hybrid probably ever ordered as well. It's like three different things now. So, you know but So maybe look I I don't have one no know but we gotta have something. Thanks. Once we adopt it, we will probably have at least one pull on the list I suspect we will have multiple. We have Aaron online. Hi. I we're already used this graph in the open be trashed and we find it very useful and comfortable. So supported option. Thank you for. Thanks, Aaron. My Ellsworth worth? I... Yeah. Thank you for writing this flow. I think this is great to at least concentrate a focal point for all this discussion. Sort of as a response to Acr, I find it useful to dis"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "Well, first of all, like Hp style hybrids where you're that, you know, using Rsa with a yes style hybrid. From P hybrids from P q q hybrids. Or from traditional traditional hybrids, like the the point of that qualifier was to allow you to talk with P q t versus P up q separate things. Right? Yeah. So I me, we we call up with a different word, the other so we had... I mean, we had a long bar session trying to figure out what we were gonna stick as the qualifier before the you need something before the word hybrid, what you put there. One thing we came with is homo homogeneous, like there's because one of the properties here is it's this is ke plus cam equals cam. Which is different from the other use of a hybrid, which is asymmetric plus s symmetric equals Hp So so maybe like they're all. Bad words. And I think what what's chosen here is you know, the best we've got. So suggestions please. I don't know if we want Florence coming up a list of bad words. I'll I'll I'll keep those to myself. Yeah. That's we've not come up with something perfect. But suggestions welcome. Go? Yeah Thank you. One from power international. So I saw quite some emails discussing about the technologies for So I also to some some noises there. So I would like to say is that like the chest or anyone else? Is possible to give some summary to highlight what is the discussion result. Like some some of the most important."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "What are the situation there? So which we would like to go otherwise, because discussion it could be very very. So the chairs can that the authors can now the water. Like would like take? Sorry. Yeah. Yeah. Something like this. Yep. Are you asking about the discussion on the list so far, like specifically about the draft more generally? Yeah. That's right. So I suppose, it goes to like a for some very basic concept. Say post the quantum, or content save or resistance could on yeah, we may have different ideas. Yeah. So in the interest of time, I guess, I'll do a thirty second review of what's happened. But I would point people towards the last three slides of this presentation, which which cover this. Most of this... The discussion on the list so far has just been about the language to use for kind of the algorithm type. So post quantum algorithms and traditional. Traditional algorithm. So traditional that's being algorithms revenues which are based off factorization or the this great log problem and, you know, you'll fill a choice. So I guess, the post quantum discussion was do we like the phrase, post quantum algorithms, quantum safe algorithm driven, quantum resistant algorithm, quantum, We probably think they're sort of resistance safe maybe, algorithms. And then, yeah. Was there was a similar discussion about the phrase for traditional algorithms. Yeah. I I have some justification on the right sides for for why I've made this suggestions I have. That doesn't mean have to stick with them. And I'm happy to summarize that on the list later if that's useful. Yeah. Yeah. Where Be quite. Again, this is... We probably will be adopting the draft so that there will be rev of the draft as well. We don't have to stick with what's there now. Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:05",
    "text": "Rowan? Hi. Roland May. So, yeah. P q dot slash t it it looks like something un pronounce. But if you give it, it may be that like like could like like a Jason Webb tokens that providing a pronounce you know, calling it picket it, for example, packet or pick it or something. Might might make it a little bit more acceptable. Thanks. So... Oh, here. I can actually you can see switch back? Yes. So thank you very much flo for that presentation. So any other kind of discussions that questions that you have about the drop, please. Send them to them mainly list or find the speaker also after these were group. Meeting. And then we will soon have a call on list in, like, two weeks or so. To adopt it, but that doesn't stop the conversation before. Okay. Next agenda, we have another document that we have working on, but it's in very early stages, which is the for engineers document right now what we mainly would like is that someone takes closer ownership of the document so we can actually move it forward. So of this material is already in our scene I... Ninety three forty from the architecture principles from the Quantum Internet But we are not going to be discussing any of the rather here in this working group, and x also has a long introductory document that is listed on this slide. So we need also someone to take the ownership of the document as it, but also we need to actually define the scope of this document. So please someone and be able to actually do this writing and actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "find the proper copying of this. And right now, this is a little bit too early to adopt. So Tim, you're in the queue. If I can get help from other people, I'm actually willing to own it and do a lot of writing. The... I would actually like to start writing soon. And so I actually have a request from the room. This is P from for engineers. And I'm actually the c chair of the group that wrote the x nine document And, you know, I was that the first missed conference, so I've been following this for about five years. The biggest problem with being an expert in the field is it's impossible to know what the non experts are thinking. And so what I my idea was I'm thinking of starting a a thread on the mailing list of questions that people might have who are new to this. And the rule would be every sentence in your follow. Has to end in a question mark. And have everybody just throw every question that you want this document add into that thread. And when I come back from vacation in two weeks, I'll go through all the questions and I'll try to organize them and I'll try to come up with a scope of a document. You know, time an outline that would cover that. So I think that's probably the best way forward Thanks Jim. So it's not a working group document yet and the first draft is some scribble that I have. It's yours. We do have a github repository for that. So we would probably be sending that again to the middle list, so you can actually properly see it. Any other participation from the working group the want to comment on anything regarding this document And just for those of you who having read your mail this morning. One of the authors of ninety three forty this morning or last night, I guess. Sent a message the mailing list about something that they're doing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "separate from the Q g of making a an undergraduate course and such. So that stuff is great. But that's one of the c authors of ninety three hundred and forty. So we will talk with them. About either using their material or something like that. If you if you haven't read it, go for it. The first section in ninety three forty is I think one of the best ones I've right. And I've read. A bunch of them. Oh, before we move on, We? So calling from power international again, So actually, I do not have a particular comments for this document. I actually have suggestion for the whole group. Because my idea is that maybe we should give some presentation about okay. What is the current progress? Of the P algorithm including the program from least. Together with some general back one. About the Pico migration. Or transmission. Like a white white why security strategy big That's so why we have such goof? Because I I my idea is that so many idea of participants here. But not every everyone knows the they one very well. So that may be part of this document as well. I mean, let please bring it to the list, but that may be something that would be appropriate. In the document, but they're might have discussion on the list for that. By the on other side, I mean, either other way maybe some presentations like for this meeting or next meeting or in meeting, maybe good for others to know better the bank one. It won't happen at this like that sleeves. What is sorry find different countries, then may have a some suggestion and they have a some more or papers bars. Yeah. And all of the measures should be very helpful for others."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "So no. Okay. What is the scope doing? Why is important? So please bring that to the list. I'm not sure that that would be a appropriate read in this working group, but it it sounds like it would be of interest to some. So thank you. Yeah. Just Justin tells the audience. Right What are doing here? Important. Thank you. Yeah. Is that we can Yep. Thank you. Yeah. Rod? Hi, Rob Care University in the white project. I'm the the author of ninety three forty Paul mentioned a minute ago and it's our textbook on quantum Communications. And on the mailing list, there's instructions for how to get it and how to and how to contribute to it, We would love to have any comments contributions on it and all of the material in it, it is or will be Cc by s. So feel free to reuse it as you want. Thanks. And I suspect we're going to have more interact between this working group in that research group over time even though our charters are quite different, And as we mentioned here, this working group will not be discussing quantum Internet unless it actually becomes relevant two making quantum computers hopefully, we're done with the working group by then. Or and we're not gonna be doing Q. But that's happening actively in another in a research group. And so if there's a lot of overlap between the two list that's very cool. Okay, very good. Thanks. One's yours. Okay. The last big item actually. That we have currently been working as part of the working group. Is this big run less where we actually look at the different that the It has and to see if any of the participants of the Or the. Have been proposing on how to migrate them to pas quantum crypto. So right now that this as a gift repository and what we will be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "Mostly asking is that if you want to contribute, please send either the or send comments to the main list. We are not going to be adopting these as a draft, or around Rf is not going to be coming down. But rather, we're going to be just having it as a least that we maintain. In order for us, we to have a better sense of where the Is sunday in terms of the migration of post quantum photography. This also is going to continuously evolving as a of the Is gonna start to deal with the Pg. It is done as a Read me file. So it's really easy to just up here. Because you can edit it in line with github up at that moment and you can also send up send just comments into the main list. So if you have any concern about that specific document just please state so or if you want to see something else developed out of it, please let us know. Right now is the structure. It is a structure in actually having a critical independent algorithm or crypto specification, it deals with pi supporting in and migration techniques means. And also messages adjacent to Ptc We also have just recently also some implementations to be listed or where you can actually find implementations of different quantum and eventually, we should also have at least a where you can have experimental implementations actually integrating into the different protocols. There's currently a lot of libraries trying to implement this into sample Tls or quick. So we can also based in that or for testing, specifically from inter interrupt testing, we have a lot of wonderful people from the. That have a lot of libraries to properly interrupt testing in different algorithm. And also security area protocols with know specific. I will not be you a specific actual needed for the month. So before I go into the next slide. So if you look at it, you will see lots of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "listings in you know, in each section. That's an opinionated list. If people think we we should have something move something from one section another please go ahead and suggest it that, you know, we want everything listed. We made the guests. Other... Or other people made guesses for us. Don't... And if there are additional sections to add and touch like that. All of that's quite open right now. And again, it's not gonna be a draft, or or got forbid an Rf. So don't think of this as how would this fit into an Rf c structure? Just, you know, bring stuff to us. Europe next too. Yes. So basically, what we want to ask see today is what topics are missing. They have I have a specific question as well in terms right now, we're also leased in some documents that do not deal specifically with quantum crypto photography, but rather enhancements sometimes to protocols in order to deal with the pos migration and there has been some debate on the mainly list regarding if we should include the those straps or not. And also what line items are missing. So if you feel like something is currently been developing another the working group that we don't know about it, Please again, pointed it out or s or send a document to the main name list. Yes. And with that, we already have people on the queue. So Woman. Yes. Hi. Whom and Calling Nokia. So I mean through some of the drafts here and and I see there's a lot of changes to the Tls Ips, etcetera etcetera, which is it triple specific But obviously, when it comes to the transport itself, and we are talking about free size type of routers. That they are very latency sensitive. They are very throughput sensitive, we talking about four hundred gig type of transport here. There might be other type of protocols that are not it specific"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:04",
    "text": "I triple as an example. So I'm wondering, like, is this working group very very high level is also gonna be addressing this type of future developments and, you know, encryption, for this kind of massive transport. And so secondly is that if there are some changes into our I, specifically to massage layer two encryption into Mp and Ip with this working group either place for that. We just made an executive decision during the middle of of of yours to say, yes. Things outside are good. And then you said later two. Roman. Would you like to help us here since we made a decision but your our ad. I I really like this working group. Yeah. So just as a general reminder of the charter, the purpose of this working group is to bring together, all of the post part discussions that don't otherwise have a very protocol specific home. So we are free to discuss, I think up and down the stack the thing that we will not do in this working group is actual protocol work. But you're cool with us doing I triple... You're the ones with the the list... You said I and Yeah. I mean, if the question is a refine listing non It stuff on that in that mark Yeah. Absolutely. I mean, this is the place to kind of talk about just my date is, we do not do protocol. One thing... Yeah, precisely to take into mind is that we can list the that indeed have been looking into the migration, the ones that come to my mind right now is just sample signal or worker than us to the idea, but there has been some theory and some experimental at work, but if how they decide to migrate is more of them to decide rather for us actually decide. Okay. Then maybe I take one minute to give you an example, maybe I'll do a presentation in the next idea. To give you an example,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "when it comes low latency and high throughput, I triple eight two dot one eighty is does the trick. Right? I mean, it it shoots through packet light speed, no latency. Go through it, but it's layer to header. You know, you put, like, a vlan into clear. It's layer two, but you can mess around with the header. Start putting Ip mp into clear using the same as sender but the problem becomes mk it has to be ip. And k over Ip. So these are the type of the stuff. That I think there are some movement in the industry routing specifically. And I'm hoping that this working group will start addressing some of these stuff that comes as directly into ip domain. Roman gets to do the inter interrupt here. Sorry. Again, I don't I don't pretend I could understand all the nuances of dressing, the the situation kinda describing the general bounds I reiterate again is this is a place where we could potentially talk about the broad scope of all the places where we might have kind of an issue, we could even get the point of talking about what my candidate solutions look like but at some point, there is actual work to do and protocol work to do perhaps where we got to write a draft, we gonna adopt the draft and kind move forward that that would not happen here. We would need to think about whether that's appropriate kind of some someplace else in the And and then kinda move forward from there. She don't don't step away. So we had just talked about like I triple league. So let's say, I triple e is dealing with something that would be a draft here, but they do it in a Pdf or a word file. It's been a long time since I don't. You're okay with us putting that in our table here and having some discussion on the mailing was saying, that might relate to this and such like that. Absolutely right. Yeah. So we are we are not Russ is going to do liaison manager between the jumping into the. Okay. There's nothing to be done at eight zero two dot one eighty e"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "It already has a Aes s two fifty six. It only uses symmetric though. So I two dot one r is where all the certificate work done. The work being done in lamps that could import or not. I don't think there's an issue here if I'm missing something, please raise the flag and raising the flag here mixed complete times. Right. And and if you find that there is stuff going on even if it's us to have a pointer in our table saying ar, you know, please look at Ar. That's a... We we can have things in the table that say, here is a group somewhere else. Working on some post algorithm room stuff. We don't it doesn't have to be a document or a protocol. So what's... Getting here performance it's very tall. I'm gonna... I'm gonna go sit down the last the last thing I will just reiterate cut of on scope. This is early days. This is literally the first time we're reading. I think the guiding principle we should take here is think very kind of broadly a about kind of the problem, and then I think after a few meetings we'll get a better sense of we'll circle in. On where we might need to focus so that would be the the spirit. Thanks. So so this was not my question, but Mac Your up to. suckers in I might also play Although I don't know how much of that's e. My question was, there's a lot of drafts that have been developed over time to add p share key into traditional asymmetric key exchange with the idea that it would give you short term, plus quantum protection. Do you want those listed in your tables as well? I think you have some of them already actually. So this looks a little bit more quick Oh sorry. Okay. So this goes a little bit more in the question or what is specifically were less. So currently what we're dealing mostly and the back I have seen that people have been carrying about into the different credit, if the symmetric part of crypto that deals into the spread causes specifically because of thinking about this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "the algorithm that goes again. We have a really considering about recovery and there's some debate in the crypto a community, we have to be really considering that or not. In the case of pre key, the assumption is was already generated in a quantum safe wave, then you're ready to go. So maybe we could have maybe a considerations somewhere in the document actually addressing in this because we may listing all of the pressure shirt trust that many and the idea might be little to much for that specific, by we might have considerations there. Fifty pre share key add in. To in addition to an asymmetric key exchange. So it's... It was stop. Yet another word used of the word hybrid. Let's not call that hybrid. The Scott floor gotta draft Right? So he's got for Sake. He's got what is that eighty seven on seventy four or whatever? It it's an rc not draft. Yeah. Sorry. There you go. I'm sorry. My apologies. But that that it's it's the add in part that makes it post quantum secure for not key. My question is whether you want those in the table. I don't think there's that. Many of them. I think there's a handful. I think those can go into one section on the table for the people who are more concerned about P for key exchange and such like that. Who here is other than deb where it's almost midnight for her who here is interested in that particular topic of the quote hybrids or whatever. Where it's with a pre shared key. I see russ waving his handled although though he's directly behind Y who I thought wrote one of the documents for high. So. Russ, would you consider adding a section to the document and collect a few of those. Thank you. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:04",
    "text": "And with Tls include because it color could use a pretty cherokee Sure. What what would whichever of the mechanisms where that has been discuss, I think that that would be good for somebody who's especially for someone who says, I'm really afraid of large keys and large signatures are both What do I do? It wouldn't it would be useful for us to list things where other people have come up with stuff. Yeah. One is... Was a topic line items I think is missing is those per calls where we suspect there's a problem and haven't like look for a solution. Example, lake is a possibility. I'm sorry. Say that again? A lake. Okay. Way authenticate key exchange. I think we need a place to keep around those those places. Thank you for volunteering on that. Or actually go ahead. Also a section for maybe orphan protocols. Well we have that, that's the last bullet on the list. But those are different than, like lake and such like that. So please. Add those. Yep. Of us on the mic, Does this group is willing intercept bar of crypto problems. For example, if for the migration to one to we need to deviate from what is the description of the algorithm in the needs standard, So does this group is gonna willing to take like this kind of variations. So this is only to list the specific documents and specifically about the crypto algorithms, that would be something that C fleet, maybe in collaboration specifically what needs is going interesting but. Will lot understand that, but that's the decision from the crypto part of."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "Of the. Yeah. I I think my question was more like to the to the general working group, not specifically to this document. So again, our charter is that we will not be doing protocol work. We... And in in this it I'm sorry? Nope. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Yeah or algorithm work. If what you're suggesting is that there might be future crypto work. Take it to sec dispatch take Cfr g or wherever. But once there's a draft on that, that would be appropriate to go in here. And again, we've already got five sections, although Russ just offered to add a six. It's okay if this has eight or nine or ten sections. Even if it's a long table it will be valuable to people. So if you've come up with a new thing that should be in the table and there's it doesn't even have to be a draft. If you have a document somewhere else that covered this. We can be listing academic papers and such like that as well. If it's on a topic where we can fill in the first column in a way that people understand it, and the second column has a reasonable Url. We can go for it. Thank you Mike, Like. I got up here to speak to the, like non F stuff should be included thing. To me the value of this list is sort of a before you go and invent something new, check if it's already been solved. And if there are great novel solutions to stuff, not here that would be useful to people designing stuff here, then, yeah, please. Mh. Yep. Yeah definite definite agreement there. And it doesn't even have to be great novel. One of the things I discovered long ago when I dabble in eye I trip and it was really just as a tourist and not for a very long time. Was that the The multi stakeholder modeled in this room or in this venue"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "very different than the multi stakeholder model in ie tripoli. Very different than the multi stakeholder model in Etsy. Etcetera. Quite frankly, very different than the multi stakeholder model inside of So if any of those people are doing something even if it's weird, but they're doing something with good intention and it affects our thinking it is perfectly reasonable for us to list this year. This is one of the reasons why this is not be an Rf c. An Rf c looks like it's locked down, you know, that it's real and such like that. This is not gonna be that. This is going to be a directory of ideas it'd be great if most of them were good ideas, but we don't have to have a guarantee there. So that somebody reading this will will find value. And maybe even suggest new ones. I'm... I'm I'm actually thrilled with... I forgot who asked at the beginning of what where we gonna do non etf ones. We've got a lot that we can do here. Andrew you're next? Strange that are assumed and then a review of those see if they are valid or not. Andrew we got... We we lost the first part of that sentence. A review of assumptions and constraints to people they think they're operating under. There's in some of the we research that we've been doing. We see that and we make assumptions and constraints on what we can and can't do relative to protocol changes and They may or may not be valid. And with what I'm seeing with Pros quantum in some cases may drive protocol changes in some cases it might not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "due to the characteristics of the algorithms. And so it would be good to look at those. Assumptions and constraints and have a good review on see about their validity or get feedback on at this course on. That make sense. It absolutely makes sense. Are you volunteering to pass do that because you... Again, you're one of the people who who've looked at the constraints in Dns. To bring up the nasty word that everyone thinks breaks the Internet. But There are... I think as in the last couple of years as people have come up with some ideas of doing post quantum. They have looked at how does this affect the... You know, they're look not looking at to your both corner. They're doing quantum in this protocol. Does it drop in does it slide in? Do we need to like, you know, wedge in and such. I think that either a document on that across the protocols across the or at least individual documents on that. Of protocol changes needed to deal with quote post quantum algorithms, I think would be very valuable. Let me talk to some of the people I've been collaborating with. I may not we lead on it, but I know people who might wanna be lead on it. Like sofia? Anyway. Anyway, but for you I So but no. I I I'll I'll you something on the email list related that Great. I think that that would be valuable here and that's would be another section in the list. If we have a couple documents saying For this protocol or this set of protocols, we have these constraints and that's why we went this way. Or we had these constraints and therefore we had to change the protocol in these ways. I think that that would be valuable as well. I don't know how valuable those will be for the protocols coming from outside the Idea because that would mean some understanding. But even though I'm not at all a Tls, if I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "saw a document on what Tls had to do to make this work. I think that that would be fairly fairly useful. And that's it's really good to get a discourse across the working group because different people may be assessing them you know, differently And yeah. Getting a broader discourse my get more synergy and consistency and solutions. So that that would be a goal of that sort of discourse. Great. Thanks. One of the goals. Alright. Thank. Yep. Anything more on the grand list for now? I mean, I'd sort of imagine some people are doing pull requests as we're talking. But anything more for this discussion. Wait. We've got somebody coming in the queue. John. Yep. Yeah. Hello. I just... The the point about the implementation and interrupt testing. As you know in the x five nine era, we random Hack on this this week, and and just seems like that venue would be perfect for this kind of thing especially as these new algorithms come. Right. We're actually looking for diversity of algorithm implementations. We have a lot of us are using the the live open quantum safe, but of course, anyone that has other implementations, we wanna test against them. Right? So it's a perfect perfect venue for that. So I guess there's other protocols or whatever needed as well. They could also do hack them it's a wonderful thing that the Does that. So I just encourage people to two. Form hack teams are or come join our team in next five or nine. So that's great John, and thank you for pointing it out. If there will be more inter testing between the different that is great or the protocols itself. I just want also to suggest that I know that you have you have repository after the hack on, if you can list that into the list you up."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "And if it turns out that we need to have or not if it would be useful to have interim online hack in between meetings. This working group can be the place where people suggest that on the list we can call it since we are a Ig ihs working group we can have interim meetings and an interim meeting can be talk about this whatever. But it also could be a hack thought. So if if that... If the developers here find that useful, please bring it up on the list. We can Sofia sophia and I can turn the right knobs. To turn that into an interim meeting, which will get a bit more exposure and such like that. That might be valuable. Thanks. Okay. With that, we are at other working group business? Sophie and I have one presentation. Does anyone else know that they have other working group business that we will do after after hours. Okay. So changing deck here. That would be us. Okay. I'm gonna fly this one. Patents and post quantum crypto. This is not legal advice. Okay? You got legal advice from lawyers or legal x experts with whom you have a contractor and agreement. So And I are not lawyers or legal experts. And you don't have a contract with us. So this is not legal advice. What this presentation is is meant to be. Strictly factual information to enable the discussion on the mailing list. About patents and post quantum crypto. Okay? If At any point in this discussion, it looks like I am veer into legal advice. Please put your hand up and I will stop. So there is why we're... Oh actually rich"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "you take yourself out of the queue? I forgot to lock the queue before we started? Okay. So Rich are you're gonna do an interrupt right now? Yeah. Not gonna talk about specific patterns. Right? Caused the knowing infringement versus infringement we are not talking about infringement. Okay? Okay? And again, at the point where I have said something that you think is advice. Put your hand up and I will stop. It's not advice. It's knowing I understand. If you if if it looks like I'm saying I know something, I don't you know something, but if you tell us something... I am not telling you anything. Good to seriously wait for it, but if if I do go there, stop me at that point. You haven't looked at the slides yet. Yep. Okay. So the y here is that you know, chose Crystal K. It on the mailing list on this mailing list itself, there was an active discussion about patents. Okay. That's a factual statement. There was a discussion about patents for Crystal K. And this indicates that there are two patent portfolios that relate to Crystal fiber. And here on the next slide, N has published a detailed description. And there's a link there. Of what it believes are the patents on Crystal K. And what it is doing about licensing these cuts. That is n. That's not Sophia. That's not Paul. And in fact, it's almost nobody in the room. Room other than Ken. I don't know if there's one or two other in the room. It says, quote, this has entered into two patent license agreements to facilitate adoption of announced selection. Says a lot more than that, but that was sort of the the pull quote. So the document that is linked here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "might be of interest to you if you are implementing Crystal Piper. Note the might there. Okay? Is not a suggestion that it is or it isn't. So what these patents might mean for you and noticed let's take a moment. Everyone look around the room and notice how many different people are here and people with different roles, some are software developers, some protocol developers some aren't any of this. We don't know what these patents mean to you because we're not you. Fact we're barely each other. Right? So the this license may or may not apply to you. Depending on what you implement how you do things and things like that. We don't know. We're bringing this to you for information. And in specific, some people have said in public, Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Not not a problem. They are not worried about the patents that N has discussed. Other people have said in private, that they are very worried about. Note that somebody saying something in public or private about their worry. Is not factual information other than how they feel. It's not telling you how you should feel basically, nobody has the same threat model the same patent issues and such as anybody else. So let's talk a little bit because we are an Working group. Let's talk about patents crypto and the. Some of us have been doing this longer than others. And we've got the Has a really long history more than twenty five years of dealing with patents, specifically about crypto. Yeah. I don't need to talk about gray hairs and such like that. But there's a bunch of us there. There are Etf rules that took a long time to develop very contentious, but they are specific rules and they're in Bc seventy nine. That's a link. Please go read it if this concerns you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:04",
    "text": "One of the things that the rule says is that you should do Ip disclosure. So I went and look for Ip our disclosures about hi and didn't find eddie. Yet. I'm sorry. I didn't find any. That might change over time. I may have searched wrong. There might be Ip closures that relate to K? But I looked hard and I couldn't find it. So this might be the least factual statement in this deck. Because I could have just screwed up. If that concerns you, go do your own search, the... The I f Ip r search page is really, really good. It applies to a whole lot of people other than us. So here are some of the sad rules. And I think this is why Rich was jumping up, I could be wrong. But there may or may not be patent claim more patent claims on ky. Don't know. There may be patent claims on other quantum crypto algorithms. Done. I assure you I have none? Have haven't asked. Okay, fine. Cool. I guess I shouldn't have done that live, but you know. But we don't know. If you wanna know about about where there might be patent claims, do not ask us. We are the people at the front of the room. That's irrelevant. And when someone claims that they have a patent or they no your pattern that applies It might or might not be true. What we have seen over the last twenty five years in the It after someone says Patent x applies to protocol y, whatever, you know, algorithm wire whatever. And there's often a debate about that. That would indicate that there are more than one opinions when someone says something does, or does not apply. Someone says this does not apply to that. And there is also a debate about that. So when you hear somebody say something, You can assume that you could hear somebody else say either the opposite or half of that or whatever."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "Also, do note that This room is full of people who are not from the United States. And it's not full of people who are from the United States, but different countries have different patent laws. So when somebody says, x applies to y They probably didn't list which of the two and thirty five jurors they were talking about. So this gets really messy And I'm saying that not in specific about Ky, but I'm saying this about we've got more than twenty five years of experience where It is not sum other than it was messy and it was loud. So I'm going to unlock the mic line, but only after I've done two more slides. So you can get to, you know, normally, once something like this is brought up in the, people will will give an opinion. And legal advice sounds like you should do this or we shouldn't do that. Or I'm doing this on my on legal advice and such like that. That's legal advice. Let's not do that here. Your legal advice is just as valid as mine and you saw that I invalid at many slides ago. It's just not valuable here. The fact, like a, if you haven't gotten legal advice, but you think you know it? Great. We all do. I... In fact, if I had a Who here thinks they already have legal advice about patents. Right? You know. It's like that's not really that interesting. Please don't go to the mic with legal advice. So please don't go to the mic line. But... And and specifically because... And and I mean, you can. I'm saying, that's a please not a demand. Anything important that you say at the mic is gonna be much more valuable. If you actually write it down up think first, write it down and send it to the list."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "Lines in the Tend to be person ace says something, person b responds and such like that and it never goes to the list. So that both excludes people, you know, deb is up at midnight there people for whom is even worse. It excludes people who aren't listening and it actually prevents good discussion from happening. So please don't go to the mic if you have something that would be much better said on the list. And then my last point is if I said anything that was not factual correct. Absolutely nail me at the my. This was supposed to be only factual I think I did it okay. I could be wrong. But really what we want for the line are statements about what this means in general, not your view. And speaking of people who who've gone through this before, I'm opening the mic line and Bob Hi is there. Hi. Bob Hi. The only thing I'm going to add which is that's something I don't think you said is that it is in the eye It have working groups can make standardization decisions based on the state of Ip claims. Choose to standardize something or not standardized something based on that. Right? So that's something I think this group can consider. Yes, but we don't get to standardize anything in this group anyway. Okay. Maybe it doesn't matter that. But that is something that, you know, you talked a lot about all of this in the eye, and that's an important part. You didn't say. So say at the mic because you did bring up something very important, which is even though we don't get to standardize anything in this working we don't get to develop protocols or crypto. This working group is meant to be valuable to a couple of dozen other working groups in the. The reason why we brought this up here is because it's the general place to do it. If there is discussion to happen on mailing list,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:05",
    "text": "it is fine for it to happen on this mailing list because we believe that there is cross poll coronation to the working groups where that matters. And so Bob has a very good point. The specter of of a patent is not necessarily does not have a direct one to one correlation with what a working group can do. So I will go back even though I'm gonna put this slide up And I'm sorry about the please don't. But you for not everyone getting in line about this. Please read Bc seventy nine. Some of the process documents of the produces are long and boring. This one happens to not be that bad. We really... It got long. It got shorter. It got long again, and it got to a medium sized it really was distilled very well. So Thanks, Bob. And Chad. I'm I'm shocked. But I'm happy. I'm Qui, I was going to say something, but you just gave me an advice of thinking about it. And if I decide to to say something send an email would be better. Yeah. Way to do it. But I'm not sure if your advice was a legal advice or now, but that's was advice. So thank you. Sounds. No. No. That's a very fair point because Well, no. Actually, anything here at the mic or on the list is all in the Etf context, which we followed the note well by. So I hope it wasn't legal. But now while you're there, though, So we you have a mailing list. Do you have the quantum mailing is where as I mentioned before, folks have talked about patents. Do you have a desire for How do you feel about about sort of cross post seeing or things going on one male list or another. I don't mean to put you on the spot. As background, we had dinner the other night."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "We were talking about this in that. He started to talk about patents I said hold that thought, you'll, squirrel. You because I didn't want him to know about this. So how do you feel about the lists and having multiple list where this might come up. For us, any inputs to Welcome? And we would receive it We we we mostly recommend it to have our comments sent to the official mailing list but anything you would want to share with us in person or at different conferences at different revenues, we would welcome them as well it in private conversations or in the Public channels. So because I know some cases, people don't feel comfortable sharing their opinions or thoughts in the With else? So that's why we welcome our proper conversation as well. So, yeah, we And even right now, we following the mailing over here because we believe there will be a lot of valuable information from this discussion. So we we will it and we appreciate it. Regarding discussions about patents or non buttons or Pg also crystal actress if your may list, Please note that we do have a code of of con. Sorry. So if you're going to be using any kind of language it has to be deemed appropriate according to the note well and the code of conduct that we have. Did I do something? I use some wrong word or something? No. No. Because it's saying right not you not you. No"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "as you've seen from your own mailing list, it doesn't always stay that civil. Right. Yep, be professional respect People Yep. Yep. I think I might have to log in again. So I think we're okay. And also, I'm not seeing anyone else So Oh, mali. You're in the queue. We won't be able to take you out of the queue, but go ahead while we're rebooting. Oh, looks like I'm alive again. Please? We're not hearing you yet. I think the lin wanted to share screen. I don't know why. So... No. I'm not comfortable with sharing screen at the moment. Or maybe she just hit the wrong bugs. Are you? Meaning to speak into the queue? There you go. Bye. But we're not hearing you yet. We're seeing you know. And now we're not seeing you either. Okay. You're coming... Okay. I guess you've dropped out of the queue then. Oh, you went offline just like us. Okay. Anything more on this for a my line. Again, I'm expecting to have discussion on the mailing list. I'm expecting not to participate that much myself. If we as chairs have to step in, that means that it didn't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "isn't going very well? As So if you had just said code to conduct, but I believe that there some people here in the room and certainly some people on the list have valuable information about patents that they might and and post quantum crypto. That they might wanna share on the list. Things that are not legal advice. And as you know, as we go along, we can wing it. I'm hoping that most of the other discussions are have a lot more traffic than this one? Some of us have a lot of experience with that not being the case. But I think that then, you know, we're pretty good. So with that, we are at any other any other business. And we go back to the chairs slides. Sure and we go all the way to the end. Anything else for today. I'm perfectly happy if we leave early. I've got a bus in forty five in fifty five minutes. Anything else for today Please from... Well, here you can summarize your have. Yes. So we have a couple of presentations, so any action item, we will be sending into the list. We will be sending all of the list of the drafts and the Ptc for engineering and the grand list or working groups and pc for you to take a look. Again regarding the last presentation, please be mindful don't share even if you are. And note again that we will have a And the middle list And even though know mailing list that might not be the case, here at the idea we do have. Yeah. Just... And so And with that, I guess..."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "the action I sort of action item from today by the way, I've been a chair resilient times and guess what I forgot to do with being ask for someone to take minutes. On me, I'm going on vacation for a week so you won't get them for a week. But I will listen and produced minutes in, you know, like, in a week and a half or so. But the action items I'm remembering are that we are going to have a call on the list to make the hybrid document a working group document the engineering draft is not yet a draft and team decided to take Take that on. that. No rush on that, but it might be a short document if it is is a bunch of references to other documents. In the grand list of protocols are going to be in a section for other extra product protocols and also for a pre pretty share sessions keys and also more interrupt testing And that's basically cd. And then we have them in the queue. Yep. You may not have asked for a minute takers, but you got minutes. I've loved you forever No. No. No. It's not me. I looked it's but even more so. joe Sal and somebody else. I love Joe Sal anyways, but thank you, Deb just made my day a lot nicer going into a vacation. So thanks very much. And again, for the on the last bit on the big list, pull request you're not comfortable with doing pull requests, know, Some of his old parts aren't that way. Open an issue send something to... So I we would love that to be a central point of information for people on this topic. So with that, Thank you. Have a good rest of your day."
  }
]
