[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:14",
    "text": "hello hello uh I am not complaining one bit I was just surprised they have moved the uh stuff in E me Echo from the left hand side of the screen to the right hand side of the screen yeah it's you I mean it's it's okay I you know like it's not it's not like it's immoral but but it but but it is interesting yeah yeah yeah cool uh so how's your day yeah fine so just a lot of work as usual thanks for much but yeah doing uh the balance between personal um stuff and professional stuff is not always easy I I am with you the whole way um so uh we give uh people another minute or two to get on yeah uh and uh and uh yeah because if we are only two it would not be so useful they're coming they're coming they're coming uh and uh reto and Steve also uh showing up so yes uh let me pleas just answer a phone call real quick"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:26",
    "text": "hello hello hello how is Michael am there and there and wait I'm supposed to am I sending audio now uh you are you are you are I forgot it's not all we on uh hey you you you found it all the way over on the right hand side so uh uh you know how how to figure out what to do so uh that that was exciting too I acquired caffeine yes that was the important part compared excellent excellent uh so I uh do you want me to drive uh Michael yeah that would be great yeah let me see if I can find the the notes uh and they they should be roughly where there they should be I think but uh let me we this if I was sharing a screen I hate that the um agenda item doesn't automatically have the agenda in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "it cool uh I bet we could fix that if we needed [Laughter] to now that we now that we know what all the information is which which we don't know before we get the things approved like no no yeah oh yeah but yeah so and um R RTO and oh good we have Martin uh Martin also so I think we have all the cool people and we're letting people just uh uh sign themselves in on the attendee list as they as they join uh and uh give give uh people a moment to uh think clearly and then we'll uh we'll get started so the other the other thing that's exciting uh for the chairs is that uh we used to have the same hedg dooc or the same document uh whatever technology we were using for each meeting but now we get a new one every meeting so uh there's more more stuff to uh there's more stuff to uh update every meeting for when we're putting together the uh agenda like this but uh cool so uh and I apologize if you all hear by dogs I would I would love to to mail them to you all um if if anybody is interested but uh if nobody takes me up on that um so we are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "we have all our uh where the notes are in GitHub and where the notes are in hedg and uh where the meeting info is and where the meet Echo information is and where zulip is and stuff like that and uh everybody is signing in to uh hedg do to uh keep an eye on the notes and uh this is the first time we've this is the first time I've mentioned uh the data tracker sorry the meeting dates on a call uh might be good for me to uh just go ahead and put those up and let people know uh these things have been added to the uh to the uh uh data tracker so uh we you know uh you can actually go look and see what our uh you can actually go see what our meeting dates are there and uh create calendar entries uh if you need to do that um but that did happen and uh uh so I wanted to be sure and mention that and um we are under not well uh and we have the link for that in the notes as well but uh and there's also um there's also if you look on the uh data tracker under meetings um you look at the where it says future meetings yes right if you want to bring that tab to the floor you look at Future meetings you see there's a button on the on the right hand side meeting just above where you point there above the there yes no a little bit lower yes sorry you see the you see all those that X that says search in the search bar says to the right of future meetings anyway that button has a calendar entry that has all the meetings on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "that oh like up here yeah right there exactly oh okay I did not know that cool so that's that's a calendar entry that will bring give you all of the meetings uh that are scheduled for seller um perfect it's almost like the 21st century um cool so that happened uh and I'm downloading that so uh I should be in the right place uh and and um how about how about I do it this way uh I can uh I can uh let people look at the uh interim meeting minutes uh right now um that are here while I and I can go ahead and type people's names in uh while you all look at the uh draft meeting minutes they are from October I sorry um day no that that's that's yeah that's the that's the October meeting which was our ninth meeting so that's that's the right link cool uh does anybody have comments about that as I as we are signing everybody in fine for for me to I don't know if there's some relevant update that someone wants to give from um um no time to wait um I spaced going to it on when I was in Prague next to Next Door um because I was busy but um um you guys were also there I don't know if there's anything that happened that's relevant that needs to go into these Mee minutes or something or not especially um is more that very there is a big request on GPU"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "acceleration for ffv1 because it is slow too slow for some people so it is the biggest feedback we have and some comment that yeah it would be good to to have the specification of flag and so on it actually affect the spec I mean people want to do it I understand that no I mean but they want to use it so we there some pressure to to make it happen yes this classic thing uh is is is that a uh is that a thing that we should discuss either on this meeting or on at the next meeting uh we could include it we have ff1 version four on the agenda already so maybe we could discuss it in that okay okay okay perfect perfect uh other than that I no time to wait there were some presentations uh just about the impact of the working group's efforts um there's one one person from the United States Library Congress talking about uh some federal agencies deciding to make f51 and metosa a preferred format uh partly based on the standardization work that's happened here uh other than that not not too much that we don't know it was just like a lot of um implementations uh kind of coming out of the work that we've done so it was overall I found very encouraging to our work and you I want to make sure I'm using the right word preferred uh yes yes maybe I can give you the link to a press release or something cool uh we we'll we'll we'll we'll get back to there uh and uh just make sure we uh so did any did we have any did anybody I have any thoughts about the uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "draft me minutes from the previous meeting nope which is [Music] fine perfect okay cool um so next item just going through uh the uh just going through the status update um so we have we have uh exciting news and uh and uh some uh work to do uh so uh matasa is now officially showing up in the RC editor queue uh in the data tracker which means uh it should pop out after the RFC editor finishes working on it uh and Flack uh we have all of the discuss uh we only had one discuss if I remember correctly but we had like five area directors saying I support this discuss so we we really did have five or six people that we were uh working to uh resolve issues with not just one um when all of the discussiones are cleared that means that um uh the specification had enough uh uh uh positions to uh be published as a center shk document uh so that's good um and we do have one thing on the agenda to talk about and this is mostly uh just making sure everybody uh understands for anything that we need to talk about in um in uh future specifications as they go through uh the publication process um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "but uh also want to mention that we have uh three we have four uh drafts that we've adopted and three of them expired uh since since our last meeting um so I'm mostly uh checking on uh uh we're still doing all of them right yes I hope so maybe one of them was ffb1 version 4 uh it had a maybe a week of being expired but I updated the the new version Oh no you're you're you're good you're you're good all right then I'll be quiet never mind no no no you're no I you needed you needed to take a Victory lap H okay well then good job good job you're welcome okay thanks and uh and uh it's not a huge deal that things expire but it is good for us to uh update them just so that uh when people look to see what our documents you know what documents we're working on and things like that uh that they will uh be able to find all the documents that they should be looking at um yeah I guess I will update the expired one I just need to regenerate them yeah number yeah exactly uh just uh I don't know how much time you all spend looking at the data tracker but uh this is what the data tracker looks like for anybody that's not in that's not sitting with us on the call basically uh but you know here are the active internet drafts and you should pay attention to those and here are expired internet drafts but the ones here are they are expired but they have been adopted by the working group so you can still find them but when people see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "these are active that you know they kind of know what that means and if they find some that are expired um they you know it's like should I read you know it's a working group they have the same kind of questions like I just asked so uh it's good to get uh it will be good to get these up here if if that makes sense to people yeah so uh so so that's a yep um and I'm sorry I did not notice who will I did not notice who said that uh they would regenerate those Steve Steve okay perfect okay on that um we should talk a little bit um about uh our plans for um our plans for those discussions oh sorry uh for those documents uh do we uh have a sense of when we might reasonably think that they would be finished for well for M TR there many different ones I after mat tros was almost done I started working on the tags because I think it will be the fastest it's I'm sorry which which one the tags okay perfect yeah because I think it fast and after that the really important one is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "the codec uh one uh but that one I have really no idea how long it's going to take because there's probably a lot that needs to be done it was really messy in the original document so I think if we really want to do it right it's going to take a while that's why also so I prefer to concentrate on the tags to get this over with sure sure sure and and we we we we celebrate that and you're saying the the seller Das codec is the one that we okay just just making sure I'm doing this um Steve um do you uh do you feel like you will be able you'll have enough uh support from other people in the working group that you won't have to do that all yourself sure yeah there's always people reviewing okay okay that's cool that's cool I I say I just I just um I just I just wanted to give you the chance to say oh this is something I need help with I would help you yes yeah it would be great if perhaps if the different documents just had a different lead if someone that would be great because then um that person uh knows the buck stops with them uh particularly with deciding whether to merge things or not they can um do it or not um I think we're very um polite about merging things in other words we wait for too many people to to comment maybe sometimes but um um that's all I'm saying is it maybe may"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "be good to have one person is nominated different person for each shment nominated is kind of the the Zar who's keeping it keeping it all in their head cool I was hoping that morit but he's not here today I could work more on the codec because I think he about on all of us is the one who knows all of these best yeah I think you wrote many parts of it too yes I will let I will let you what did you say that was for codc or for control for codc I yeah cool uh so would somebody like to send a note to him about that now well not right now but I'm in contact yes I've been doing a lot of work on the libraries with him so yeah cool okay excellent I said just let let us know if you let let us know what what kind of answer comes back uh if you would um the other the other thing uh without so I was just I was just looking at this with uh Michael and uh I'm finding I'm finding another I'm finding another uh screen I'm sorry"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "um so if you look at the Milestones that we have uh in the data tracker which uh I actually did do um and I'm looking at them now what we have uh so I marked uh Flack done uh we have the the one thing left to do on it to work out but we'll talk about that in a minute but we uh our specification for the metosa container um if I understand this correctly uh so what we did was we put in the metosa base specification and codec and tags and uh since we did that Milestone we've added Sellar control and solar chapter codex so uh we've got the Basa container to the RFC editor um and um so that's finished we could mark this we we could move the four is it is it the right term to call these uh metosa extension documents they're not well some of them are yes extensions like the control or chapter ccts tags is just definition of metala and codec is how you put a codec inside it's not exactly external but it's not interal to the format it's in between so for me it should be a different Milestone and probably each of them could be a milestone of its own uh cool so we can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:04",
    "text": "uh we so uh I could put in uh I I'm sorry I should be typing uh so for uh codc and for uh let see so we said uh if we're going to do uh different Milestones uh what's a reasonable date for for tags and know end of the year hopefully earlier I think for T it should be easy but I don't know how much time I will have but yeah you can since it took so long for the others you can put a milestone for the end of the year but the codec I really don't know okay and I'm fine putting uh I'm fine putting uh these uh I'm fine putting dates down uh the so the other thing would be uh uh when is there is there is there a Time by which we would need to uh have delivered that the sooner the better but we want to do it right the thing is that technically you cannot use mitros without knowing how each Cod go goes inside except people already know and there's code everywhere so it's a known thing um but it's better to really have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "something properly defined for each codec at least all the major ones so yeah it would be good to have it uh done except for me depends how how precise we want to be I did one document for av1 and that like it was like 10 page for just one codec so if we want to do that for the and know 30 cecs known for matosa is going to be a lot of work a lot of writing and the more writing the more problem that can arise so I mean for me it's really we're going into the unknown so Steve would it make sense to um have each one of those documents be each one of those codex be its own document what that was my original idea but that means we would have to start from scratch like right now we have a document with a lot of things [Music] already I mean the proper way would really be to have one per codec but then we'll have like 20 30 different documents that we manage so don't F really good either that way usually the RFC they have one document for all the already existing codex and there is a new document but only for the new format so at the beginning we need to summarize in one document all the already existing codc I guess I think so yeah I think even"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "though that's not the best option it's it's the one that makes sense or at least all the main the major of CeX maybe not the not so used CeX now I don't know yeah but at least a package with uh the biggest one um and uh I'm I I'm U I'm kind of I'm I'm kind of uh trying to help with strategy keeping in mind that uh I don't write these documents and I know who does um the other thing I'm wondering about is um if we had at least the major codecs that the people who are asking us to use our stuff would want to use with that codec uh if we had one document that had those how how how big is that uh I mean is that like if there are 30 codecs that we just said is that five or no do I mean for video you have the EG one soeg one two um maybe yeah four as well and then h264 h265 and then every one but I think we can leave every one on the side it has a well done document for now [Music] uh yeah the and things like that we don't care too much uh maybe some row no no M free sorry but oh sorry"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "sorry 124 124 ABC HC yeah so that's for video and for audio same thing the common one so MP3 uh a AC I don't think we need to do Flack and what else I mean PCM PCM yes is it is important for us okay so of course Opus I don't know if Opus has a mapping it has an RFC I don't know if they have a mapping already for Matos C uh Michael I'm remembering that we've had a conversation about metosa and Opus in the same sentence or am I confused uh yeah so I think that the what thing that I was kind of questioning a couple months ago was they wanted to do some more Opus work for essentially um cish slme coish type use and I couldn't understand why they didn't bring it to the seller working group that's that's was my um and I think it was mostly ignorance um but um that's what it was about so there there's some other Opus expertise elsewhere that um we can reach out to I think and find again and and yeah so where I was headed with this probably I probably could have asked the question more directly is if we have a do doent that and I'm making this up but if we said uh this describes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "the uh this describes for instance av1 uh it's a lot easier for us to go to uh somebody who knows about av1 and say we would like you to help us on this document it explains it explains how to do this with AV for av1 rather than saying we'd like you to help us with this very large document yeah yeah I think that's that's exactly what happened when they released av1 they asked me to do the document that was somehow the same as the for MP4 except I just left that document unattended for years now and MP4 keeps being updated they had lot of fixes and not changes but explanations Etc which I didn't uh port to matosa but yeah but in the end it's pretty much the same between MP4 and everyone there's not a lot container wise for everyone cool uh and I'd and I'd like to uh let uh Martin uh take a Victory lap also for uh already having the matroska mapping and its RFC good job cool so we have things to think about there um and I think Michael and I can I think Michael and I can uh uh do the right thing updating the Milestones um maybe even after this call but we we'll figure that out uh but like I say this is right here in on the screen is where we would do that so um cool by the way in the list you have audio video but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "you don't have subtitles and there's actually a lot more common ones well not a lot but there's plenty of different ones uh like text SSA web VT and things like that which also need to be in there excellent cool so we're saying we will have a large number of codec supported and we hope that that will be in a number of documents not just one big one um I think that you you know we we we will do the right thing and we will do things that don't drive the uh don't drive the authors crazy but uh but cool okay so so uh we've had this conversation and where we've got this conversation done and okay excellent um is there anything else we need to say about uh the additional matasa specifications not from me cool uh Michael what I think I would suggest is that we put uh we put uh codec and tags in their own uh Milestone uh or Milestones uh we we'll go decide that and uh we will leave uh these other two uh out for now uh they will not be they will not be tied to a milestone yet we've adopted them and we could work on them that's all fine they're just they're just not they're just not tied to the Milestone does that sound fair yeah especially if they were moved to a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "separate document not to block the rest excellent Okay cool so Michael and I know what to do excellent uh and um and we can write that down so that gets us to uh the uh Flack ballot that uh that we are finishing up uh and like I said this this is Michael tell me when to quit talking because this is mostly just letting the working group know uh something that you probably need to know um so we had uh the picture types that were uh defined in a specification from the year 2000 we moved those definitions to an registry and that gave us a new normative down ra for RC uh 2083 uh which is um well actually it's it has nothing to do with there's no registry for that those picture types uh yeah that wasn't the point the point was that there was something in there that wound up with a down ref uh oh okay okay okay so okay so I'm sorry I I'm sorry I was confused uh but that that's still still lets me say the thing I was going to say which was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "um that okay Michael this is a conversation that you and I don't want to have um because um there are what 15 picture types something like that and that's the only one that has a reference that I saw that was not to the uh to the uh ID v v ID3 V2 do uh document oh there uh I think 15 or 16 types defined and those are names all like uh cover media performer there just describing what but there's one spefic type that says this picture has to be of the type PNG it has to be a PNG picture um and um Roman uh felt like that had to be normative um I don't know really why but um I guess it's fine uh but the other types are just you know names they're that they are just text yes cool uh and excellent and so that that answers that answers my uh and thank you for interrupting me that uh that uh corrects me and but lets me still say uh what I was hoping to say to the group which was um if we do have a normative reference and a specification uh to a to to a document that is a lower maturity level uh which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "in our case would probably be would almost always be uh informational um we have to identify those uh At Last Call time so that so that people can look and take the take that down ref into account when they're providing comments and uh and uh the uh so B yeah sure I read in RFC 8067 that it's no longer uh really required to have it in the uh last call and it's something that can be deviated from it's B BCP 97 cool uh and that's that's that's new since I that I'm I'm pretty sure that that's new since I was an area director which was like four years ago uh now and um so Murray I I did talk to Murray about this and he said uh that he would be talking to the isg uh how to proceed and um when I was an area director that was always that you would say oh we will have another uh ITF last call and it will be short and we'll just ask does you know we've identified this uh down ref does anybody have concerns about it and uh and the answer will almost certainly come back no um and then they will they will say this is no this is no problem that Martin has done everything that he needs to do and we can go forward with D14 okay it's my my understanding uh and thank you thank you for uh correcting me on when I got lost um so um we did have uh we did have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "uh item on the agenda for uh FF uh V1 V4 and um where did that go someplace up here yeah this uh except I need to blow this up to a larger font size I'm sure um but we did Dave did post this and uh we did have uh some discussion of it on the mailing list um is there uh Dave Dave is there anything that you would like to ask for help with especially um I think there's a bit of what Michael was mentioning earlier where uh some people might be too polite about waiting for too much feedback U I'm not sure if these issues are just stuck with waiting for more support or if uh some of them just need um to uh get past more of the criticisms or or feedback but yeah the the this kind of just organizes the open topics of ffv one version 4 um perhaps an additional Topic in addition to what's listed here would be any considerations in the design of the encoder or the encoding that um might help it be more friendly for GPU processing um you know it's because it's possible that even if uh ff1 version 01 and three aren't very GPU friendly at the moment partly version four could be more so in the future um but I don't know each one of these had a little bit of discussion in the email list but uh I don't know just have to do some work to nudge that forward or encourage the contributors that there are cool I don't know Jerome if you want to add any updates because a lot of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "poll requests I think that are stuck are authored by you yeah on pause we need I need to focus on it still start on my side so uh still have F in mind but yeah no time for it no other lead author uh Michael Neer isn't on the the call today unfortunately so do we actually have some content in FF V1 V4 that because that's my understanding was that we didn't actually know what V4 was going to do that was so cool well part partly one of the reasons for the version four specific apption is that it resolves a bunch of the uh workarounds that had to be documented for versions 01 and three so in version one01 and three there's a lot of parts where it says uh this is supposed to be the case and it's supposed to be very cleanly designed uh but because of this history we have these accommodations for it so in version four it's there's a lot more points of clarity so I think actually the page count of version four might be more brief than the the prior versions I if if all version four is says here is a clean uh green fiish um protocol and doesn't do anything else just gets rid of all the the historical you know accommodation then that's worth publishing to me because that accommodates a simpler uh design with less code with you know like that right to me that's worthwhile publishing on its own then we don't have to have anything magic in it yeah that's a I mean I think that's a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "good point I wish NE Meer was here for his feedback too um but yeah maybe we should reply to the email list with this proposal because my my uh my concern about this proposal is um with before before with uh the fix we we would do on V3 it would be incompatible with ffv1 V3 old decoders and breaking the compatibility several times is maybe not a good choice so I would prefer to to break only once so with a fix from B fre plus the new additions so I'm not sure to to separate I'm not sure what the new I I I I understood there weren't a lot of new additions but but if you're telling me that's not the case or they're just not well understood yet we we want to to have additions we need to to to decide about the scope but uh doing a version with only the fix of V3 uh we would break the the BAM compatibility um too many times I think so it I have concerns about that I prefer to to have only uh one one compatib break when we we do the fixes for V fre plus the new additions we plan to do for uh V4 so is that is that one specification or two yeah one one specification only the V4 so we it is to we need to to to to clean up V4 with all the V3 compatibility stuff and to to be clear about that but I don't think we should uh publish this version um when we don't have new features for V before so the first step is to to agree about what we remove from V3 but then we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "need to to add uh the new features before publishing so it is two steps okay that makes perfect sense at least to me any thoughts from anybody else uh it does to me too I can I'm reviewing the document where the version four deviates and sees that it is already uh breaking um so I agree with jome that we should not break compatibility too many times yeah and and I I do understand the point that uh it would be good if we can uh if we can say uh yes we're breaking compatibility but uh when you move to version four these are the things you can do and then people can decide whether to move or not is that about right I'm not sure if I'd encourage anyone to use version four yet because we're not completely sure how to validate it's not stable enough yeah right right sure yeah and that's that's that was my understanding about only only breaking compatibil break breaking backward compatibility V want so there is no urgency because V3 is currently used and it works well so um we have a time and just doing that in one shot would be better than being stressed and Publishing it quickly in my opinion okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "um did um so when we were talking about feedback uh from mtdw uh about uh CPU and things like did I understand the feedback to be uh GPU for the graphy GPU GPU yeah uh is is that something that is that something that requires uh changes to the specification or just to the informationally we need to to study to study um where are the bottlenecks and with a GPU version of V3 in order to improve V4 so it is part of the of the of the work on before that uh we have a GPU version of V3 and we see where are the button next yes yeah I repeat myself sorry okay excellent cool is there anything else that we need to say about that or there any anybody have oh Michael's on the call did everybody know Michael is on the call but me Michael Le Meer I'm sorry uh perhaps he arrived in the middle of discussing uh ff1 version 4 um but I think just just Michael so you can catch up we were just discussing the email I sent to the seller list where I was just kind of summarizing open PO requests uh and we were discussing next steps just being kind of like nudging the contributors of those poll requests uh Michael Richardson had a proposal to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "publish version 4 as it is as uh it cleans up a couple of the exceptions that are added to the prior documents um but Jerome noted that we should not proceed with that just for clarification the the cleanup uh from V fre is not yet done we should do it so to to remove or not to we should decide if we remove or not uh the exception we have in V3 for having a clean V4 for the moment it is not yet done so we need to do it also I see I could make I could volunteer to start the poll request for that and then we could continue the conversation there okay excellent excellent cool is there anything else we need to say no okay uh Jerome you said uh the last time we met think back think a long way back uh but you uh the last time we met you said that uh You' got a patch for uh ffv1 m n uh had a proposal of P okay uh so uh there is a request for comment on FFM Peg devil list uh so here has a proposal and we need to convert this proposal into a specification in ffv1 V3 update erata so there is some discussion about how we could do um yeah we need to to finish this discussion me and Mikel n the the issue is that the The Proposal"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "mik um breaks the the FF V1 V3 specification but actually the V3 specification is not clear about the the odd number of the odd width and height so in any case whatever we do um the specification is is lacking of clarity um with OD with and height perfect to be clear OD WID and height is totally fine if there is no chroma subsampling it is OD width and height and chroma sampling so the chroma part are not complete so it is Theon there an issue okay excellent no comment on that excellent um see so uh is the okay and uh Jerome had the uh had the uh things in the email about the links to the uh Track ticket and the uh ff1 ticket um so so I could put these I can put these in the minutes uh about right here excellent cool uh is there anything else that we need to say about that no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:23",
    "text": "for cool perfect and thank you and thank you uh thank you guys for cluing us in excellent is there any other uh business that we need to talk about not from me not from cool okay yeah there's there's one thing I it's not really important but um I wasn't able to join the meet Echo until Jerome sent me a alternative link uh I don't know how you all got in um I tried to use the link on uh the seller page the data tracker seller page meetings this is the one I used so I don't know which one you used in the past but it is on the data ITF data tracker okay because online conference link if I go to the data tracker I get a different link and that didn't do anything really uh was your link from the agenda page or the meeting materials page or the meeting meeting meeting materials page but as as I see it it's the same link as the agenda page one that did that didn't work for me I don't know why all right well let's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "try again next time and see what happens uh and uh actually uh actually you you you can give you can give the chairs uh uh you can you guys can give the chairs an action to uh poke at that and just make sure that it's that they are exactly the same that they're if they're the same they're supposed to be is they're supposed to be the same they they're the same uh if they're not what happened uh but but uh we can check that our Spencer screen screen screen capture if you can um when it if it breaks next time okay and we'll we we'll bring it up we'll bring it up if there's maybe there's some other issue that we've not seen like you see it once and then it's corrects or there's a cashing issue on I I I had it it was a little bit odd starting for me and I didn't I couldn't figure out if the uh the weirdness that I was seeing was mostly just that it looked completely different than it usually does when it popped up uh with you with a revision in November and I and I'm not complaining one bit but I'm just saying I was I it was a pleasant surprise um that would be for the 20241 and 2024 uh-h o it's not 02 I think it's actually 04 I apologize um uh meetings those are those are meeting numbers they're not months so don't don't ask don't ask what happened but our meeting numbers are not in a sending order through the year now and it's Spencer's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "fault um cool is there anything else we need to say nope we got we are finishing exactly on time this is still the best working group I've ever ched and it's not close all right bye-bye thank you guys thanks bye great one happy New Year bye bye"
  }
]
