[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "and it's 10 o'clock now your noise stopped Alexa because his microphone is muted exactly got it because it still shows green that you're yeah so you did the local mute and here's the other John two John's no waiting I I really don't want to go there yeah well you don't have to um shall I give one extra minute I kind of everybody who I expected to be here is here I think then why give it an extra minute I I think you should respect the time of the people who were on time and start okay all right okay well we have uh quite a lot of boilet BL to go through anyway okay welcome to the final Emil coin terim for this year um I'm Alexi and to is here as well and thank you all for coming um you should be all familiar with the note well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:05",
    "text": "and ITF process and uh IP rules and code of conduct [Music] um and this is a short version of some of it uh just reminder please stick to professional discussions and um reply to each other um okay so we have notes who is happy to take notes I know most of you will be uh basically just for the main decisions that are being made don't need to minute I I'm in the notepad you know if others join me when I shut up others can type and you that would be great so and people can pay attention and uh edit and complete what P have missed that would be great so thank you ped this is roughly our agenda uh I think probably two-thirds of the meeting is going to be about um smgp spec and uh John dein's new draft as well and then at the end if we have time we'll go through some as tickets as a refresher and one ticket we discuss in more details so this is this any agenda bashing okay if No Agenda bashing that I don't believe you're going to be shy I know you you people so um this is the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:04",
    "text": "working group status from chair's perspective uh Pet's format document is ready for working group plus call SMTP is nearly ready for working group plus call and uh our hope is that by the end of this session we'll get an agreement what should be in version 22 which should be ready for working gr plus call and then the last document is as it currently expired um B chairs didn't remind editors to refresh it um well as we were concentrating on other things uh we will now be returning to it very shortly and I'm hoping that it will be completed soon yes Pete you you you swapped 21 and 22 in oh 21 is pretty close to GL call gotcha never mind ignore me okay yes I get I get lost with numbers sometimes as well okay so with that um the right couple of slides just a few things that should hopefully be uh non-controversial that John added in the in version 21 of SMTP spec but I just want to uh bring people's attention in case they missed it um the first thing was in section one two um because we did some a Rel uh related changes um make it clear that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "that this document technically is the same as you know revision of the previous documents plus some registry changes to align with contemporary practices and thinking so I hope this is not objectionable if you have any objections or concerns please bring them to the mailing list uh right so um the other thing that um will nearly lost um there was one ticket about section 79 uh and John John leine uh suggested some changes in April and um I forgot to Chase so here's the slide showing the specific suggestions um can we please have a discussion about whether people like the new text is everybody asleep looks okay to me I mean fine um I can certainly live with it um I am nervous any time we say um in in the standard it's just the that the uh um that what most sites are doing is is normative um but I think this one's probably okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:04",
    "text": "I mean the only sites I know that that don't do this are weird things like like um SMS gateways that fake it by heavy rate limiting and content and content filtering and I don't I don't think it's useful for us to try to try to guess what those Corner cases are well what I guess from John's statement about normative is H are we making a recommendation here or are we just stating fact and I think it's clear enough that we're just stating facts so I'm not worried and and and that's why why I can live with this there's a more fundamental issue which is uh is when this situation can arise I think I've said this on the mailing list um the uh uh our our reality is it as we move from talking about uh end points to talking about end collections of things so that we got things under the administrative control of the sending system and uh and under the administrative control of the uh of the receding one uh if we believe that outside those those endpoints um the only thing that gets you to a relay is MX records that I'm not certain what this text in either it's a provis form or origin one me anymore because the only things you're supposed to have relays can figured in anymore are within those originator and uh and and Terminator domains um I with this and I don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "particularly want to open up the broader problem but that is the broader problem well yeah but um I mean there's there's there's the benign position which is there's still some male male systems typically have some some hardwired hardwired overrides to get to get around I'm hearing a lot of bubbling sounds in the background just you over them John that was Alexi now muted okay um yeah there there sort of there's there's a benign argument which is that mail systems still typically have a few a few hardwired override roots to to get around warts and whatever you know and there's the other one that people use open realis and spam and you know I certainly don't want to go in I certainly don't want to offer advice offer advice about about spam filtering but I mean I think in this case you know the reality the the reality is so Universal that whatever we you know that we might as well just say this is you know like this this will make you consistent with the rest of the roles that you're fine all right so um I think we discussed this I don't see much objection so John if you can implement this in next revision that would be great uh moving on um that's another thing that hopefully is non controversial but uh I just want to make sure that people are aware of this change uh the ion registration um there was a suggestion discussed that instead of saying whether"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "instead of having a Boolean field for whether SMTP extension is suitable for message submission we now have a feeli that specify um requirement level like must should must not Etc so this is the new text that John added uh if people want to discuss or have any objections let's have a quick discussion now um if not this is just uh for your information any comments yeah it works for me sorry I was trying to figure out what the background noise you talking about it might be actually computer itself uh but I barely hear it so my apologies for that all right uh if no comments let's move on so um the only other set of related discussions um and issues is about appendix B and message submission text some of which is in section 72 so um let's talk about specific discussion changes to section 72 proposed on the mailing list um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "Pete can I volunteer you to discuss this and yeah uh um and you know the background here is um this is strictly cleanup and if Murray and uh the iasg are on board with a small Charter change to do this peachy if they are not and and I think it's the right thing to do if they are not um and uh you know we uh can't be moving these things around I I see no strong reason to be ripping these out um it would be a good cleanup but it is not the end of the world if they stay exactly where they are this one is simply um the the sentence in there is literally about what a submission agent should do to clean up a you know a situation where it might be wanting to reveal information in Trace fields and my feeling is that sent should be moved out and into 649 where discussion of that kind of thing makes sense um this one isn't particularly normative um the title change is again just a uh cleanup because uh mostly from Dave Crocker felt like blind copies was talking too much about um the the submission functionality rather than the um actual uh MTA functionality which is don't reveal stuff in Trace that was in the envelope um so that's all that's going on here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "yeah I I I can live with change as with this particular with the change of this particular slide I problem set we start talking about the appendix okay and especially because there I don't think there's anything normative here so well more or less exactly yeah right and as you clarified um you actually suggest in moving this elsewhere this sentence elsewhere and then there elsewhere this might be mangled to be like you know there was some objection about it the way uh it's phrased but that's going to be dealt elsewhere basic and and this particular one uh to follow up on something John I think said on the list um this particular one because it's not normative um because it's recommendation for how to do something interesting if you want to do something interesting this seems perfectly reasonable able to put in the as if if we do not make the more General change with appendix B okay thank you much anybody else got problems with that idea I have a bunch of slides about specific so um yeah I think the specific change seems fine to me uh but we I'll have separate slides about procedural stuff and and we will have a discussion about how we're going to go about it so let's defer it till then okay thank you uh so that's uh P you can stay um John asked me to clarify that part of the issue with appendix B is it's not purely for SMTP submission"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "so it's more generic case yeah and and I think I said on the list about this one I agree with John that it does contain normative language and therefore has to land somewhere um it is normative on things that are not true SMTP things anyway nor true submission things so wherever it ends up I think having it as an appendix is perfectly reasonable um because it's okay we we've discussed the main protocol now here's some normative things to do if you're not following the protocol above and I think that's true whether it remains in 5321 whether it moves to 649 whether it moves to the as although I think that's a little weird for other reasons um but that it's got to be an appendix because it's about not the standard protocol we're talking about here wherever here is so I think this you know this point is well taken and and that's of course why it's been in appendix since uh 28 22 21 um you just made me real iiz that on a subsequent slide when we just discuss procedurally what to do with it I didn't actually give a choice of leaving it as is so my apologies for this I I I will remind everybody to presume that you know it is there as well all right fine thank you okay the the the difficulty with moving it out of the 5321 B 5322 b as colle ction is that somebody who is thinking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "about other kinds of things than message submission is never going to look at the message submission document unless we insert a normative reference to the message submission document in um in one of those three and that normative sideways reference is a little problematic in my mind stress out a little I'm I'm I'm a little as as we have discussed repeatedly on on the list about other things I I am more sanguin and optimistic about a a sideways look over there it's over there now guys uh kind of reference I don't think it would be too disastrous um I'm not convinced it has to be a normative side reference to point to the appendix especially given that it's an appendix but yeah yeah I would happy be happy to leave a stub that B that says something along the lines of if you're gatewaying from somewhere else treated it as submission the the [Music] wording yeah I mean although I mean this is one of those things that like when these documents were WR it was a big deal you know these days you know other than you know it's really hard to think of any sort of Gateway other than you know this weird little things like SMS you know or or facts to email which I think still may exist somewhere it does I I I I will unfortunately mention that I just used an old tool that does exactly this this morning and the and nothing about it is going to change nothing about the tool"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "is going to change depending on what we do in this working group because this tool is old and hasn't been touched in forever but still yeah I I I think I think it's fair to assume that nobody's gonna be no nobody's likely to be building new ones with or without our advice I think that's probably right yeah I I I I think that's right but uh but like Pete and I don't know what yours are Pete but I've got embedded SK security systems and things like that that are ancient are not going to unlikely to be updated although although it's not impossible but do this kind of thing oh sure yeah I mean I I mean I have a pror that sends email you know but I have a configured to point at my submission server not not at my relay server okay moving on and uh as I uh I mentioned to some people um yesterday my slides are already getting obsolete by by by the minute with the discussion progressing um on the next three slides uh we'll talk about Jon's the other John's document uh and I'm trying to separate technical content of it from a separate discussion about precisly what we want to do about it so keeping that in mind uh do people want to have a look at what's in John Line's draft or do people remember are people happy to well there's two rather different versions of my draft one is a replacement and one is an update you know and I can I can direct either one depending on what we decide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "right um but I suppose uh isg once partially um it also has updated text for what used to be a b right in section five uh do you want me to try to project this or go I mean I attempted to copy appendix B and just make you know a few minor editorial changes to make it make sense in context I was I didn't try to change anything but go ahead I my you know my comment earlier is what applies here I think ideally this should be an obsolete because I think that would be cleanest um again within the bounds of what we can do as far as Charter change I think the important difference I see is that it should remain an appendix and not try to be incorporated into the main text of 649 to make that clear distinction that you don't need to be implementing full submission as described in this document for this appendix to be important to you and so I I think trying to incorporate it into the main text into I think it was section five nine I forget five um five is not the right thing it should be moved out into a separate appendix and and you know pointed to separately I mean if that's what people want that's fine with me I I think that just gets us out of the whole discussion of what does this apply to do does something that wants to do this have to implement the rest of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "submission I I think um you know this is a separate piece of information for things that are doing something odd and labeling it as here's an appendix for these odd beasts is the is the cleanest way to make that happen Okay so Pete uh let me clarify so what you're suggesting is uh you're suggesting removing a B from SMTP document and creating new appendix in draft leine RFC 6409 Bas and my preference is for the obsoletes the 01 style of doing it rather than the 02 the the you know here's an update to that document I I again within the bounds of if we can pull this off off in you know a a simple Charter change the difficulty with the obsoletes plan is that there are some outstanding issues with 6409 which have never been considered important enough to do a revision but if if we start obsoleting 6409 with a new document we're under some obligation to address those standing issues and some of them may be controversial and some of the ones which are probably not controversial may take a lot of time and energy and that means discussion about whether or not we got them right and I especially if we're taking this on in the working group which that separate question I'm worried about the railing the as which has been moving too slowly anyway although it was our explicit decision moving slowly in favor"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "of fussing around with message submission that was the reason advocated the update plan I I will repeat that that is my preference I think it's cleanest and the world does not end if all of this remains in 5321 this as is if if that's what it comes down to right if we can do it cleanly and get it into an obsolet 649 abys I think that would be the most stylish clean way to do it if that's going to make life miserable we can make an updates if that's going to make life miserable we can stuff things into the as or or leave them in 5321 biss I you know I this is about what is best and I take John lavine's comment uh to heart that the the problem here is once we nail these things down and get them published as Internet standard which is of course the hope and and the reason for doing this we're almost never likely to open them ever ever ever again so if we can get it done right let's do it which which of course is what Randy and I thought when we moved 649 to internet standard we hope to never look at again and expect it never look at it again and here we are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "be you know um slightly misleading so but you can argue that you haven't created any new text so it's already there um it's an interesting argument Charter reads to me as if it prohibits any other documents but uh uh it's an interesting document it's an interesting argument well I I would argue that an update 649 is out of scope not just an obsolete 649 Barry I agree Cas it wasn't clear I think touching I think as I read the charter I think touching message submission is out of scope until we have uh 5321 5322 and uh and the as finished and then come back to add additional work I think that's what the charter says the problem with the sequencing issue gets back to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "the fact that this applies to things besides 649 which is one of the reasons why it went into well one of the reasons why it went 2821 is it was very early but one of the reasons why it stayed through 5321 and uh and for that set of issues unless we're going to abandon those things as discussion of things sntp implementation are may be expected to know about uh if we sequence this behind the other three documents that were abandoning normative requirements to something that at least in principle may never happen this is a nasty interlocking set of race conditions I'm trying to figure out whether people whether there is any prevailing opinion within this group even and at the moment I'm I'm not very clear why why can't we leave the appendix in in 21 and any potential update or obsolesence of 649 just references that the issue of moving it to 6409 the even the temptation to do that is to clean up 5321 B if we're in leaveing 5321 B and and I think that's okay if that's how we end up um it's not pretty it's not clean but it's fine there's no real need to reference it from 6409 it it it is getting it out of 5321 bis"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "that's the interesting thing to do but if it applies is to situations other than just submission it probably belongs in 5321 correct I I guess my point is I don't know that it really does I I'm in so far as we think of submission as Dorking around with it before it reaches smtps MTA land ah and and that's probably where we are thinking about this differently because if submission is Dorking around with things in various ways before it gets list PP land that's not what 6409 is about so if one wanted to have a and I am distinctly not recommending this but if one wanted to have a separate document about Dorking around before things got to SMTP then we'd be having an entirely different discussion than pushing it off into 649 which is a very specific piece of protocol yeah and and it is I mean this really is about gatewaying in in the broader sense um and it seems to me that you know we've gotten rid of quite a bit in 5321 um this with regard to outside of transport and delivery um those are the two things that are there and so if we could and that gatewaying has an element of submission to it um but like I said I am I am not wed to this I think this would be cleaner um it people who read this kind of stuff probably care more about the submission end of things than anything else and might go oo I could just do submission"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "but I I I am this is cleanliness this is not you know this is about document hygiene not about the the world collapses one way or the other and that's our other procedural problem which is the charter explicitly prohibits and we have pushed the we pushed the boundaries of the prohibition but the charter explicitly prohibits uh rearranging and restructuring documents for Elegance so in some sense even if we were to make some major changes to this in 5321 in order to make it prettier we'd be pushing the boundaries of the charter those Bound Again have already have already been pushed as a narrow rela to what a narrow re would suggest but uh yeah I R read Charter today and I agree with John as sad as I am to say this that it does explicitly say against you know restructuring for the sake of restructuring um so do we have a feel where this is going um it would be nice cleaner whether it is 6 or when top that goes to SMTP thing um and but a question here the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "of appendix B aside the stuff from 7.2 we still think is reasonable to move out of 7.2 and if it needs to land somewhere the as is fine if we don't if we're not able to do the 6409 shuffle is that correct I think so I I can certainly live with that I mean I I think it's worth at least having the conversation about the 649 Shuffle with Murray and if Murray says okay this one is worth you know uh coming up with a quick Charter change but if that goes nowhere and we move the 7.2 Tex if we're going to to have this conversation I probably would suggest saying you know look here with uh we have a draft we just add this to the Charter is this going to be in I've got one and a half concerns there okay one of the concerns is it's clear to me Charter aside and in a more perfect world we actually have that the right thing to do is create an entirely separate document called um uh gatewaying into SMTP and that gets the 7.2 text the remaining um um material in 5321 bis on gatewaying all the references in 5321 b 2 either 7.2 or 7.6 of the appendix uh become"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "candidates for moving there and a perfect and that document gets to explain the difference between the message submission protocol and real gateways mother mail systems and in a perfect world that's what we would do not a perfect world bigger change to the Charter even than talking about 649 uh but in some sense that's where p and I still be circling around each other um the second observation is that while talking with Murray's the first step this is a significant enough change to a charter which went out of its way to explicitly prohibit this change that I anticipate especially since the working group is far behind the originally anticipated schedule some resistance from the rest of the isg to adding work and if we get into that discussion I could be wrong but if we get into that discussion we will still be sitting here in spring now doing a clean asynchronous update or even a clear asynchronous revision that this working group is asked by the isg or expanses Charter to take a careful look at during the last call process is an entirely different problem but if it's asynchronous and we need to do some cleaning up of what's already in 5321 it stays in 5321 and this I'm really sorry I brought this up because I had I think nobody"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "would have noticed yeah it's all your full jump I agree um so the other thing uh May and maybe we can just add a sentence to appendix B saying look this appendix it probably looks weird that it is here but this is the reason why it is here why it seems like an old duck in this document just add a sentence onto explaining that you know this is the best place we you know we found for it so far yeah I I think I would want to avoid adding such a sentence because I think the sentence itself would be kind of weirdly out of place and be sort of saying um we have some odd politics in the ietf and this is working around them just just leave it okay um I was thinking about a slightly different sentence Barry and I don't know if this aligns with what Alexi is thinking but if I were to write such a sentence the sentence would effectively outline the history of um of why that appendix got there and point out that there's an interaction with message submission but that there are these other cases and that yeah that would be fine and I can attempt to draft such a sentence but only on condition that people will read it very carefully and and attack is needed sounds"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "good so do you Alexi this is as notetaker do you have a conclusion about this discussion that you want for the notes well I'm in a prec curious position because I I I propose something and I also need to decide whe whether this is the outcome of the discussion um I mean you can make TD decide Todd's been Todd's been you know nicely silent during this whole thing maybe he's still you know asleep on this lovely morning well I I can so I can summarize what I hear and you guys the chairs can decide whether I summarized it right yep and I I hear that the result is the that doing anything with 649 is out of scope and we don't want to recharter to change that so we are going to leave the text as uh where it is and John is going to write a some introductory text that explains how we got here and that everyone can live with that result everyone on the call can live with that result that right any objections to what Barry said see Pete I am awake I want to hear from the other John actually if he's John leine would you do you have a comment I I can I can live with it you know I I I think I share the you know like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "like be be between the perfect and getting something done I'll definitely choose the latter I don't think any of this chart prevents moving ahead with uh with the 649 update orys and uh and and getting the registry change which you talked about earlier makes that job a little bit easier or more clear in any event okay uh Todd are you happy with with this yes all right let it be so then and I I've typed something close to that in the notes um if Barry you have the ability to uh review what I typed and add to it because I think you said it better than I typed it that would helpful and and then Alexi and Todd can bring that to the list as the conclusion and I will start working on the sentence or two but again the condition is people going to pay careful attention because I will probably get it wrong uh fine uh and also if you can double check what's in draft leing RFC 649 base section five if there is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "any better wording for text uh in appendix B just uh cherry pick it as well so I think we have a plan for version 22 do you agree John um John do you think the next version will be working group plus colal if you uh make me promise and I agree and at the moment I would certainly agree that I don't find any other things rereading the document which I feel obligated to bring to the attention of the working group which then sets off other tours of BS and roles okay can I um can I cheat a little bit and what I will say is whatever else you bring will be working group plus call feedback unless it's a really big deal because I'm pretty sure we'll probably find a few minor things in working group last call anyway so well I don't basically I don't want to be saying that we cannot start working group plus scha until we find everything because it's just might never end I'm I I I'm fine with that okay all right sounds good okay so uh well I think that was a productive 49 minutes um we have a few slides on as at the end to you have have the FL LA to drive this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "okay um I went through all the uh currently open tickets for as there are 10 of them U these slides capture what I wrote down about each of the tickets um first one to come up is is issue 80 um just a claric the title of the ticket is clarify where the protocol stands with respect to submission and LS issues uh not entirely clear from the ticket itself what's supposed to be said because what's there on the screen is uh the numbered list there is pretty much the entire contents of the ticket that in the uh the MTA MTA relay statement um I do note that there is mention in the as of Port 587 but not 465 in section four or 6 4 um there's lots of mention excuse me of TLS in section six of the as but nothing about specific relay on other than Port 25 um and you know the question here is if TL TLS relay on a port other than 25 means message submission on 587 or 465 uh then we can make noce that in section 46 in the as um or otherwise we can close the ticket so not sure where to go with this one I think we can bring it to the list to get final arbitration on that issue yeah to be honest I I'm not even sure what does it mean relay on Port other than 25 what what does it mean did people have something else in mind other than submission or relay case I that sounds like something else from the from the distant"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "past or else it sounds like you know the kind of the kind of private Arrangements that have always been out of scope for for standards and if there are private Arrangement uh it's not clear why TLS matters because this private Arrangement might or might not be over TLS so it's actually in a way it kind of doesn't matter yeah okay so uh just reading your comments and just being a participant I think we need acknowledge existence of Port F uh 465 uh in as and other than that I think close the ticket right I mean uh does anybody else want to disagree with this so I'm a little confused and I have to not looking at this text in quite a while um but uh but if this is really about submission issues um I wonder whether it's even in scope if it's TLS issues from SMTP to SMTP then it's a layering problem but not a SMTP and possibly even not as problem I don't know you're the one who motivated creation of the ticket yeah well I think there isn't substantial discussion on use of TLS and properties of TLS for a lay case uh and you know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "advantages disadvantages what the you know what what specific functionality it provides I think the rest uh I think we can close this I mean the the as has an entire section titled confidentiality and authentication with SMTP and that's where TLS is mentioned in the as um and there is in 6. for titled SMTP authentication there is mentioned of Port 587 but it's basically says you know it's you know SMTP off isn't in scope for the applicability statement so but that's the only place of 587 is mentioned in in the um as again I I haven't looked at it in months and uh and that sounds to me like Alexis's proposal to acknowledge the existence of Port 465 perhaps exactly where this document acknowledges the existence of 587 um is sufficient I agree knowledge 465 and close the ticket I've added I've got a comment ready to go into the ticket that says that qu question is somebody's going to have to possibly craft some text do it as mentioned 465 or describe the differences between 587 and 465 one one being you know wrapped with TLS the other one being using start TLS I what the text says right now is SMTP off defines a method for a client to identify itself to an MSA when presenting a message for Trans transmission usually using Port 587 rather than the traditional Port"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "25 [Music] so that is the entirety of mention of 587 in the as so do we just assume anyone that wants to use 465 understands how 465 works and and don't get into the bloody details I mean is what is different about 465 versus 587 465 is essentially smtps 587 is starts with PL Tex and then you do start TLS at least that's my understanding if somebody wants to correct me please do you're differ yeah I mean I'm okay just putting or or 4 or or 465 since we don't explain 587 either yeah I'm fine with that let's just asking the question yeah yeah let's just you know usually using ports 465 or 587 I think you the change to the text there would be change the word PT to courts plural and add 465 or before 587 works for me anyone have any objections to that uh I neither object or not object but again I looked at it and uh and one of the advantages of getting uh 532 went B through I through working group last call is I may actually have to time to pay attention to the as yeah and what I suggest actually is let's get this small change get the document uh as updated close the ticket if there are any residual or similar"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "issues I would rather open a separate ticket which is more uh specific and we can always link it to the closed ticket anyway so I have commented in the ticket can even with the suggested change to the text thanks T yep okay moving on to the next slide okay um just going to go sort of Rapid Fire through the tickets um or as rapid fire as we can ticket 38 uh possible clarification of 78 octet limit versus 998 line length limit I think the text we have makes that clear in 5322 and I think this ticket can be closed [Music] um there was a call for perhaps some text examp maybe adding some text examples to the as back in July of 2021 but nothing's been added to the ticket since then um I you know I'll bring to the list whether to make a decision what decision whether or not to close this ticket um but I think closing this ticket seems to be the right thing to do and I say that recognizing probably nobody has read the document recently and can't say yeah it's right in there and it all it all works but that was my analysis of things next well and and actually now that uh you mentioned that if we need an example I can always write an example and we can have a look if people happy to edit well example demonstrated the difference uh again I I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:03",
    "text": "that I think that um I think that 822 or 20 5322 sorry I think 5322 is is fine and makes the distinction in uh section 2.1.1 um as to and you know why there are two different limits uh one speaks to you know the 998 character limit being required it's a must for for SMTP um the other the 78 character limit is is more about um male clients that do ugly wrapping of of text if the if the line exceeded 78 characters um again that's probably something that's more limited to text based mail readers now than um modern day mail readers so I think what we have um in there is probably enough but um you know I'll bring it to the list to get consensus that the ticket uh how about yeah uh post to the mailing list saying you know we'll close the ticket if I if I can come up with a reasonable example and people are happy with it then we'll add it if not I think closing the ticket is fine okay all right next is issue 40 back at ietf 112 um there was discussion that we should make sure that these are um discussed in the as so we will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:03",
    "text": "just have to confirm that they are indeed inas have the discussion on list as whether or not to close this ticket but um if the things are in the as then we'll close it if not then we'll propose some text on list to to get it to where we satisfy that the ticket has opened discussion on this issue part of this should probably be identifying extensions that uh that have gotten no traction and essentially secured well the the ticket back in February of 2021 mentioned 8bit mime enhanced reply codes and DSN as musts pipelining and sntp utf8 as shoulds um there are a couple of comments from you Mr Clon uh in May of 2020 I don't see any expansion of that list Beyond those five I I I think in the positive recommendation sense that's probably pretty close the only other issue is whether we want to more or less explicitly deprecate um some extensions that have uh that seemed like a good idea at the time I've gotten no traction since and the answer to that question may be no but it needs to be asked I don't know deating extensions is relevant for a ticket that's titled recommended extensions seemed that would be a separate issue altogether if it's separate issue all together then I can generate a separate it if that's the way to do that it seems like a swap with with very little practical benefit I mean they're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "all optional people aren't going to do it they aren't going to do it okay forget I said anything for what it's worth the current draft has 8bit Min and dsns as must pipelining and eii as should and enhanced system status codes is recommended because they even though they're widely supported they're not it's not ubiquitous so we chose to go committed there but I'm I'm not married to any one of those decisions did you say it but MIM is a must yes okay I I've noted that we're going to discuss on list whether or not the as covers the topics and then close theic if it does uh issue 50 and in order in order to avoid getting hosted on my my own petard uh we need to be very careful about the use of the ter AI okay yeah I just use that while speaking as shorthand John it's it's not that term is not used it's not used in the current text good thank you uh ticket 51 yeah as should cover the use of email addresses in web form um there was a call for proposed text uh back in October 2022 um from Alexi to I think it was to Mr LaVine there was some discussion on the mail about various problematic cases with John LaVine something along those lines we further we're find in London yeah I just you know we are at impass me because if you look at the HTML spec it basically says this is a this this disagrees with with the male with with the male"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "standards the male standards are wrong ner ner and and they're not going to change that so I think what it says now is it says well you know it's like like two dots don't work and dots do weird stuff so like yeah the the current text is kind of a a boil down version of what Alex see the two Johns and myself had come up with I I think what's there now is is is good is as good as we're going to get it so you know these are these are obvious mistakes in the HTML thing that are easy easy to fix and other than that I don't think there's any more more benefit in arguing with them yeah there actually is some possibility of those HTML specs getting tuned because uh um trying to struggle with the implications of uh of not asking email addresses has uh has set a FL over there yeah well I mean they already tried and failed I mean back when what wig and w3c were separate w33 said you can use any utf8 which was of course wrong you know they took that so they took that out and I don't think they've made any progress since then um there have been some serious discussions between the w3c internationalization group and the w 3C uh HTML crew to some extent the whatwg HTML crew I predicting success no I wouldn't go that far John LaVine just for clarity you say what what is there now is as good as we're going to get you're referring to section 4.3 in the as is that correct yeah okay so P let's close this ticket to the list is that work for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:03",
    "text": "everybody any objections okay I've updated that ticket 66 recommendation about time zones to use in date and receive header fields we have it as status ready ready to be closed oops that's not the right one um there is quite a lot of discussion in the text of I believe 5322 um regarding time zones the most recent comment in the ticket was from Ken after reading the current thread for this issue it looks like line clinson would like for this text to be added clarified in 5322 bit and leave as alone um that was October of 2022 [Music] so looking for time zone discussion in someone summarize what they think is not said in 22 that needs to be I I I'm not saying that it's not said in 2020 or in 5322 um I think at the time this ticket was written there may have been some thought that there was something missing but it was a discussion on the mail about the use of minus 0000 colon 0000 time zone resulted in the following suggestion recommendation about what time zone should be chosen for a given message either in the date header field or in the various other fields the TR fields which time stamps are applied and or what receiving system should do about them and in 5322 I believe the date and time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "specification section 3.3 covers those cases that that was my memory of the conclusion of that discussion but you know I I am known to think happy thoughts about not having to make changes I'm I'm I'm looking at 5322 bsiness now you know and it it notes that minus minus minus Z means we don't know what time it is and I think that that covers the issue so I think we're done yeah do I have to get consensus on the list to close a ticket yes okay All Right tickets been updated not closed just updated with notes what to do next uh next slide please 78 advice against using URL percent encoding on non- asky email addresses to create Ask key version of them question was raised on list by John clinson um which is mostly quoted there but um the text that John and that's that's all that's in the ticket right now is the text that John put in the on the list um I think that text is a good starting point for discussing this issue um but I think that bringing that issue to the list and figure figing out what we want to say and where we want to say it is probably the best approach"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "here there's already a section 4.2 in the current well now expired draft that essentially uh encapsulates John's text okay if you don't mind my messing things up a little bit um I would I I would like to add another Clause that says you can't puny code it either because there there are people who still believe that you can't what use you can't use puny code to encode vocal parts now don't tell anybody there are actually a few systems in China to do but in general you can't do that okay can you I'll send you a note okay that works and for what whatever it's worth I definitely agree with John on that that that that uh that that that very strong suggestion and the uh and perent very strong suggestion are uh are both very useful here for slightly different reasons but important and the only only controversy I see which takes us back to a different piece of an earlier discussion is uh is what this should really be handled by a uh by an update to uh um uh to 5891 um but I hope we don't have to go there especially given the status of the current updating Q 589 water right okay so John LaVine will send me some texts about puny code and then we'll start the discussion on the list about the this issue 78 why you copy me of that suggested text so we'd stay in sync but I don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "exp any problems with anything you're GNA write what I what I scribbled down Todd was text was added to 4.2 to capture the rest of this issue and that John justs adding um the note about don't use pey code either right and that's what what I captured in the ticket was LaVine to provide note read puny code to expand Tex 4.2 as and then we would discuss on list if section 4.2 addresses this ticket so I think we're in agreement P 79 add international consideration section to uh applicability statement we have the section in there there is no section called um International considerations there are three uses of the string International in the as one is linked to RFC 6531 and the other two are titles of rfc's 6530 and 6531 in the inform informative references section [Music] um John clinson had some text on the list um regarding what this ticket meant U but there's been nothing about nothing forward since then so probably just I will start a discussion on the list regarding this ticket and see where we end up uh speaking for myself on this uh I I I think the 6530 series documents have enough sort of architectural"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "applicability discussion in them already that a simple pointer out to them um is reasonable for the eai stuff um and then pointer separately to um mime for you know internationalizing uh the uh the contents of messages and perhaps um you know 8 bit mime along with that is probably sufficient there's plenty of discussion elsewhere about these issues yeah I agree that it's unlikely we have anything usefully new to say at this point sorry just noting these quotes here from a structural standpoint then if we do add this section should the current 4.2 about percent encoding and pun code fall under that as a subsection well I'm not clear that it needs an based on what John and Pete just said I'm not clear that a section has to be added um it might be enough that we already have the references in there where we have them but um we'll talk about it on the list yeah for 4.2 the the work of saying don't percenting code and don't puny code is um uh saying how not to do internationalization um you know I I think a proper internationalization section might just be pointers out so I don't I don't think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "anything needs to change there but fair enough Alexa is there another slide or is that it that's it okay there three more issues that weren't covered on the slides 8485 I I didn't to talk about them gotcha H not this time okay so I've updated the seven tickets we did talk about looks like there will be seven new threads on the mailing list to talk about yeah I think uh would be uh very good to close we tickets and see how much we have left um because we we definitely need well the draft needs to be refreshed and we we have some some work to do but I don't actually see tons of tickets coming up that needs addressing at this point for what it's worth we've got a code freeze coming up in a couple weeks of fast mail so other than fixing bugs I I should have plenty of time to churn on this document that's good and I think with that thank you thank you all for coming thank you for the productive discussion and uh so uh John clenon when do you think we can get 22 version"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:05",
    "text": "out [Music] um let me draft the new sentence for uh appendix B and and a couple of other things have showing up on the list and uh and see if there's any controvers about those if there is not I would suspect I can get the thing up within about a week that's a prediction that's that that that that's a prediction not a promise yeah I would like to start last call before before the end of New Year I know Christmas is coming but uh we should you know and I can make it four weeks to cover for H this and stuff alternately I could decide to deliver on December 24th grow my beard prend its Christmas present okay next week yeah if if you think you can do it uh quickly that would be great uh yeah and then yeah uh format document was apparently in working group last call but that was um a year or two ago so I think we need there were enough maybe small but enough changes that we will just redo last call for it so we'll do two last calls in parallel so that people can also cross check all right and with that thank you very much and um hope to get a bit of work done and working group started before the end of the year and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "then I will see you online next year after that okay bye everybody happy holidays to"
  }
]
