[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:16",
    "text": "uh we can wait a few more minutes before starting until like 4 past as usual High building you can hear me good evening I can and can you call me yes um and uh I do not know if I can dis enable my video but it looks like I can't which is interesting now you should be able to see me as well yes I see you yes hello Christian foreign thank you Christian for volunteering helping taking notes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:22",
    "text": "so let's give one more minute before starting Marco do you plan to go to ietf 116 yes I should be there on site okay great all right I'll see you there you too oh I I hope so I hope so yeah that's that's my plan right now that I will uh be on fun side so at least when I booked the the closest hotel was also the cheapest one really okay yes that that was strange but I took advantage so which one was that uh I should check for the name but it's really uh less than working distance you can't get it wrong really send me the name on telegram yes yeah but but Yokohama is it's a very easy town to get around so so even if you stay closer to the train station it takes only uh I think like 10-15 minutes to get to the uh venue which is very easy right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:06",
    "text": "has the registration already begun by the way I actually have not had a chance to have a look oh yes uh all right I'm thinking a few weeks you have the cutoff for the early bird registrations yeah okay and book My Flights now too so okay but it's forecast now and there's a few nice people here so let's get started um welcome everyone to this interview meeting of the co-working group um I am Marco tiloka my co-chairs are um I'm a Jimenez and Kirsten Borman and this is an officiality of meetings so we've been recorded uh the note 12 applies so get familiar with it if you are not already and it's not just about IPR it's also in the special about our conduct so please be nice and professional um with each other uh the agenda for today is also in the notes um as usual um we'll spend some time with the conditional attributes document uh that we will present uh is still in working group last call uh more uh reusing comments have come also recently um then we go through uh two of the coreconf documents uh mostly young seed that Carson will present and I will actually show a status update related to um ongoing uh points that we are discussing uh for the href document uh does anyone have any passion to propose this agenda okay then before we really start just like to thank Francesca for um wrapping up with the uh remaining core Errata earlier today and I think all of them are are closed uh now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:03",
    "text": "great uh uh then build the floor is yours with uh the conditional arteries document you can now take control of the slides okay uh should I just share my screen um even better you can hit the second icon from the left on the top and select the PDF slide deck for your presentation and then you can control it in just a minute yeah second from the left Let's uh join Q us to share slides okay good got that one that's it yes all right conditional attributes okay yes okay okay great um let me in that case just do a few little modifications so I can put you I can watch enable my video as well so you can talk it that way okay am I coming through yes we also thank you okay great so hello everyone so I'm Bill silverrojan and uh I'm here to talk about our draft conditional attributes for constraint respond environments so this draft is uh co-authored by Michael Costa and Ellen soloi so um I'm going to present just a few slides containing what we have done since the last uh ietf meeting with my present at the last the last slide said okay so the current status is this is the old slide set Marco but never mind oh I'm pretty sure we force the reimport on miteko okay and I'm not that's no problem I can I can that was the only slide that wasn't uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "it was not uh updated but that's fine okay uh just getting back uh so this is the current status since uh the London meeting um we were at version zero five before and uh there were many of the issues were already closed and the draft was a working group last call um then there was one other issue that needed to be resolved so version 6 was submitted to resolve their own issue and um then there was a request I mean there was a question at the meeting whether we should request an early review from the iot directorate and uh and the consensus was yes so an early review was requested and then more reviews were also welcome so going into details um what changed between zero five and zero six was that in zero five we had um one section which um contained some code some reference code to illustrate the um how the server can do processing of these conditional attributes and um the code was normative and also it was um very compact we found out through the review that Marco provided before the idea meeting that that there was some issues with that compact code and also it was um possibly a little bit challenging to to review because it was a rather rather compact so we took the decision to instead move the code away from the section uh that improved the readability we put it in hello can you hear me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "now you're back again okay sorry about that when you stayed online it's just that other than your presence anything else crashed okay let me share the slides again sorry about that share okay so I was here I think um please confirm that you uh exactly which one I disconnected so I can resume from there yeah it was half of this line I think good okay so um as I was saying uh we moved the reference code away from the main body of the text and um edit it as an appendix uh that was now informative so um it does that doesn't completely illustrate all the conditional attributes which I would have been rather challenging but I think it's it's rather it's rather a good example of how how the processing can be done so that was the major change uh in the in the document as it stands now so that's at version zero six um but then this uh specific slide shows what actually happened so while we were at version zero five uh then before it became version zero six um a review was requested for early review uh from iot directorates and uh and enes uh graciously accepted to to to review it um so it's it's supposed to be due um on the 23rd of January I think I think she's she's probably reviewing it now so but I'll have to make her aware of the new comments that are coming in as well so um that's that's going on from uh iot directory so the next thing is that um just last week we received some working group comments uh on the core mailing list and uh I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "um would like to address the first one which is a little bit easier and then and then we can discuss for the second one this is a little bit more uh involved so the first one the the URL is there um it it was about the pmax attribute and it's it's basically the um how it can be used for the amplification attack on on Co-op so that is covered in a draft so the observe was actually covered in the draft in um TGT RG and PMX was singled out as an attribute that that risks making the implication tax was bill I suppose you're online again after a very quick offline period okay I'm trying to resume if you can see and hear me I'm sorry I'm not sure why are you on a VPN perhaps no this is a fixed network from all University campus so okay something else is happening right here but but never mind just a minute I'll I'll resume hopefully this is the last time that happens okay foreign so I was here just now talking about the first [Music] first mail that we received as a review and I was mentioning that um PMX specifically was mentioned as an example of how an amplification attack"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "can become worse by setting the attribute to to very short timeouts and um the reviewer suggested that before publishing this draft it should describe describe this problem and also normatively require some mitigation from the implementation so um after a couple of uh short discussions I think what we need to do is to really work on the security considerations uh part of the of the of the draft uh to discuss basically not only um pmax which is now aggregate which is now described as C dot P Max but also uh EP Max because uh while pmax can be used by amplification attacks epmax is used to uh adjust the Cadence of the measurements at the server side so it can potentially be used for resource exhaustion attacks as well and um so I think um that that is not that um difficult to to include into the draft um so we will try to to do that so definitely version seven will include those things um if a if a review comes from the iot directory then then that will also be taken into account okay so that's uh that's the first working group comment and then the second one which I think uh I can now display is this specific example um does the specific comment that um goes a little bit deeper into the principles of rest and about a conflict with the observed notification mechanism so um it was felt that the notification mechanism is supposed to provide the functionality of keeping the retrieve resources in sync with the actual resource state so the client always receives the the latest resource state but um using using these"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "conditional attributes that interferes with the operation of observed since using query parameters you you do not necessarily get the actual resource date but you get the resource state that is obtained after filtering and if you are applying observe on that then you cannot really um you cannot really get the newest resource state so that's that's the um justification for this and um the resolution steps are still open so we we probably need to discuss this further we have uh initial discussions so our original um sentiment here was that um I do not think we have actually violated any conditions so this conditional attributes are effectively a hint the server can choose to ignore them if if the server wishes um but on the other hand um I I appreciate I appreciate these comments as well that that effectively um we need to think about whether query parameters actually interfere with the operation of observe and if it does that then the proposal here is that do not try to change how observed works but change how the resource is represented in the server with the query parameters and then afterwards set an observed relationship on on that um uh maybe new resource or virtual resource um which which is then which is then more accurate to to um that the client's needs so I think this is important to to discuss today um what I'm I'm I'm open to like comments and and questions and um is Michael here also I'm not sure oh Michael you're here yes that's good so Michael is also the quarter here um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "so what do you think I'm Michael go ahead yeah you need to explicitly take the mic you're just in the queue now yeah great oh everything's taking a long time I'm sorry I'd like to hear for some other comments first um because we kind of have considered a position on this and but we want to we want to hear if there anyone like Christian has been in this discussion as well is there anything anyone else I guess no one else has raised their hand so um um I think that fundamentally what we're looking at is first The observed oh say Carson has his hand up I'm gonna kind of let Carson go first yeah I would just like to to simplify the the statement of this uh comment as don't fog Co-op um so whatever we do here should allow using implementations of Co-op that are already around there and don't know about this specification so this is really the the the interesting part of the requirement here that we have to keep in mind so if the co-op implementation has to do something that a co-op implementation usually doesn't do then we probably messed up but if the server itself gets new semantics that's fine um oh yeah then then Christian"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "um yeah I understand I agree with the sentiment Express by you and on the slide that this is not the latest stage of the resource that we that that we're not altering the latest state property of 7641 we are just creating a new resource that now has a new latest State and that latest state gets grounded Faithfully so all is fine in my book um and I don't as I understand the specification it doesn't as Customs at uh for Co-Op as long as nobody expects that these particular query parameters would work with any resource that is not advertising them and I don't think this is happening so all is fun hmm Michael um oh wow there we go it takes literally like five or six seconds to unmute so um yeah thank you Christian and Karsten I think that clarifies what what the real concern might be here is that we have sort of created a little subversion of Co-op that might have problems interrupting interoperating with other endpoints in an on a network I don't think we've done that but I think it deserves further consideration so um I'll think about that um but I think that uh my main point was going to be what Christian said and that's why really I wanted others to to weigh in first was that well first we're not really saying that you have to use Query parameters here there are other ways to use these these are just basically a set of definitions of filters but I see the concern comes about when we suggest that you could use them as query parameters but I think that concern is mostly mitigated by the fact that or the con by the widespread agreement that the use of a query parameter creates a new resource or at least a new resource State and so what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "we're observing it's actually very much like clouds proposes um we're supposed to use names or not but um that that what we're doing is we're creating a new sort of resource state that gets observed so we're not really changing the way observe happens we're creating a new uh progression of resource States that's derived from the initial one that's a filtered version and um I that's why I don't think it really breaks anything but I think it does deserve some further consideration and maybe some elucidation of very particular scenarios where there might be problems I I can't think of any but I would I would like to ask the people that are participating in the discussion to to think about that and try to come up with some more concrete scenarios that might actually be problematic uh Klaus and I sat down over some paper in Montreal a couple of years ago and kind of went over like here's how the resource State changes and here's what gets observed and um it might be useful too to try to recover that diagram but I I think going forward I don't really see a problem with this I think we're just looking at sort of more discussion to close off the issue and in terms of the amplification implication attack or the I'm I'm kind of in agreement with that that it's hard to be really normative and the the the commenter suggests that we normatively um try to normatively remediate it but I don't think we really can because I couldn't imagine industrial Control Systems where you'd want to have pmax times that are like a tenth of a second or less to to basically do fixed rate sampling and maybe we should just be really clear that that you have to have it you know set the times within the context and you could also disallow setting of a time so we could something that's Norm not really normative but it kind of looks like it it's a at least a concrete solution would be to suggest that that a user of this might look at"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "typical Network latencies and all that and provide a guideline for how to set the how to bound pmax so that an attacker could not set a value smaller than a certain value that's derived from your own network installation so we could we could be pretty specific about the remediation I think and I played with you so I kind of know you know what what works and what doesn't a little bit I think that's all yeah absolutely and I think I think that the same kind of mitigation can can be applied also the EP Max in this case um to to um prevent the um the clients from manipulating the how often the server updates its state uh resource States and things like that as well Christian um yeah as we've come back to um to the to the pmax stuff I think I'm personally I don't think that it is up to this document to say anything more than a non-normative remarks that by the way make sure that you're adhering to 7641 because any amplification mitigation that needs to happen already happens by a proper implementation of 7641 um that limits the number of outstanding non-confirmable notifications and um creates confirmable notifications in between and doesn't create too many ongoing ones and so on so that's all there if what is there is insufficient then we might want to update 7641 but not everything that produces values that can be observed and that might do that in a short Pace should need to worry about this because this is what we have an underlying protocol for and the underlying protocol should provide the adequate measures so I think I think coming coming"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "um coming from from my perspective so so um I assume that um the idea about um projecting the new resource State also kind of applies to to how BMX can be handled uh in this interpretation we we do not necessarily need to prevent the server from sending resource State updates periodically to the client this is what I believe so I don't think this is the idea of pmax not being able to fit into this into this idea of having this virtual resource States or or resource States is a problem Michael yeah brief comment on that is something I meant to mention earlier and that is the idea of um trying to build in the idea that the the actual value of a number has to change for the resource state to be observed as being changed that there are a lot of scenarios where an update occurs but the value doesn't change and you want that to create an observation so pmax is just a special case of you know these things only being hints the server should never be prohibited from spending an additional notification if the value of a number didn't change I think that's way too much exerting way too much Authority on our part on how people use this stuff yeah I had a few comments also been starting from um epmax actually yeah that was not part of the original comment from John but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "you want to cover it as well which is good the applying considerations along the line of um the server should still think well for its own best about not just accepting whatever value client proposes uh I think that that has always been in the the guidance of the document so so it's there there's never a must in that sense except for pmax I think there was a must condition but most of that are May or should um and um and indeed I mean not nothing is um uh mandated so like like what Michael just suggested that is that's that's too that's too difficult um so the server is free to decide what what it wants to apply okay well it's still considerations uh yeah after all anyway um right on the main thing of the um of the second topic uh instead I think there was also another Point uh mentioned in that review in the end uh about the max to be better considered as a co-op option because it's kind of extending observed because you're opening for uh the server sending a notification even if you don't otherwise because the resource maybe has not changed which also connects to what Michael was mentioning uh before and that was kind of irrespective of well keeping the draft as is as an extreme uh or moving to a new Direction what about it Michael so I just wanted to clarify what I heard you're talking about adding a co-op header option to define the max behavior and then being able to thereby exert um or control over it yeah I read that proposal that way it wasn't spelled out explicitly but but it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "was mentioning about yeah this is kind of started to extend observed and we use options for extending any opinion on this because I oh Christian go ahead that would sound like reintroducing a lot of the HTTP cache control that we deliberately left that we um that was promo time that was deliberately left out of Co-op Fair Point the way it's here at least was the way of the client very politely asking the server to reduce its max age which at least doesn't alter the caching model yes absolutely there might be clearer Solutions but um I like keeping the caching model simple I think that's a very good point yeah I think it's um we we probably need to hone our understanding of what changing the resource did uh means um so for instance if if I have a new temperature reading that happens to have the same value than the old that the old temperature reading has um the new reading may have a different um lifetime so that is useful State for the the client to have um we encode the lifetime in the attribute max age and uh that actually may not change because it's now reference to a different point in time than than the previous notification um so um yeah what exactly does it mean for the state to be different another thing that a server may want to tell the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "client is um actually I don't have a new management measurement and I'm I'm a little bit surprised by that I would have expected to have a new measurement now but it didn't come so here is the measurement with a smaller max age uh than the previous one had uh so the the next Edge plus plus the the time when it actually was sent in this case stays the same so if you define the stage in terms of expiry equals transmission point in time plus Max Edge the state didn't change but the information is still new because the server kind of authoritatively says um I I don't have a new measurement so I think we we need to understand a little bit better what we mean by by saying there is new stage that that actually warrants doing a notification and I don't have a clear opinion on what the right result is here but I think it's a little bit more complicated than just looking at the payload and saying only the the payload a change in the payload generates a new notification yeah I that's that's pretty much what um I would like to you know be able to think about it in terms of that each resource State when you're using conditional notification particularly when you're using pmax each resource state has a finite Lifetime and whether you're using um I guess using max age seems like it makes a lot of sense but each resource state has a finite lifetime therefore when you communicate the same value again you're communicating a new resource state with a new end time and there's no reason that that we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "should try to prohibit that interpretation unless someone can think of like a really good what what does that actually break because depending on the value changing just seems to be really artificial and maybe we could like broaden our notion that instead of resource State and and include things like um well I'm I'm expecting it to be updated and if it isn't that's you know that's that that actually defines a new state as well because it has new timing so do you think Michael we could um include that kind of uh the justification in the description of pmax in our draft you know that's a good idea is to really kind of elucidate some of the thinking especially from this discussion because it's been a really good discussion and maybe we need a little more discussion on our agreement we need to reach a little more agreement on what we mean by resource state but um modulo that yeah I think we should really do that that's a great idea yeah I think this kind of qualifications were good to do anyway all along on pmax specifically and on the whole Spirit of the draft actually so it's good to have text that that clarifies to Future readers this is not extending observed this is not working come up yeah so actually yeah sorry Marco no no go ahead I'm done no I I I I actually um what I what I took from from the these comments regarding the discussions of resource dates and notifications is also there um that there is very little guidance out there and how they can interfere with um or or query parameters can actually interfere with the the correct um correct um operation of uh observe and and specifically making sure that the clients receive the correct um or consistent state to the server so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "um I think I think it might be nice to to consider that as a broader um work in general terms if you if you actually today have a co-op implementation that that can do observed and then you set you set uh the query parameter it is not necessarily the conditional attributes by any query pyramid on it does it actually change the way observe behaves so that that would be good to clarify maybe in the things that things research group or even in in core because it's not really there in the in the observed observed RFC sorry because you were saying something oh I guess not a Christian I think it's there but it's hidden behind the definition of a resource and that might need clarification yeah um are there any questions anymore or any comments just to be sure we don't forget Michael before also mentioned again yeah all along you were really observing um something special here like like a new spatial representation of the research and what is going on with that this is also probably something to to phrase out explicitly I think that needs to be done because that was the recommendation that that if if we are including that kind of clarification then then um that the draft probably will benefit from the discussion and uh and going forward to to Future reviews and that's something that could be easily explained as well yeah I guess it will it will come back again otherwise it's good to clarify in general and also to uh yeah talk about getting back to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "this again Michael okay so just to summarize our work item is to to basically update the draft with a prototype discussion along these lines but also we're going to take that discussion broader and make sure that we have agreement on some of the basic concepts yes but that didn't get in the way of us updating the draft with language we think is appropriate foreign I guess I'm I'm done with the presentation so I'll close the deck and hand over control to you yeah so what one thing that I think needs to be in this discussion is how proxies that are on the way actually get to do the right thing so we haven't discussed this here yet but the proxy needs to find out what's going on without interpreting these queries uh parameters Christian is there an actual question on on what is the right Behavior there or is this just about how do we phrase it because from my understanding um the proxy's role is pretty clear in that if the proxy does not know what is going on those are just a lot of different resources and the the only question the the old the open question if there is one is whether the proxy May rely on the information that it has learned by observing its own traffic that this resource is adhering to that specification and then apply the specification on its own"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "to me that is the only real open question here so that's the worst case situation that we often had in mind when discussing this was that you have a client that is also observing a resource through two proxies and between the two proxies for some reason you cannot use observe so proxy number one has actually has to power proxy number two and uh the the job of observe is to enable this by providing all the information that proxy one needs to properly poll proxy2 and to to send notifications in case this is actually needed and I think we we need to describe how this interacts with such a worst case proxy concatenation but isn't that something we should describe for proxies in general because if it is not there it's missing for everything that is doing proxies and not just this particular specification yes um so uh I mean we have to solve this problem in a general way um the the um views that some of us have is that we did solve the problem and now there's new stuff coming up and we need to understand whether this breaks the way we have solved the problem yeah yeah exactly and and you know we need to think about I think for a reverse proxy it's clear that that parameters are meant for the end point but for forward proxies it's not so clear"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:06",
    "text": "excusing me of the especially the forward proxy will need to adjust transparently route these things because it's not authoritative on on this yeah that that kind of that's kind of the perception right now so how much can be said in this document then not anything at all it's uh yeah that I think we are identifying quite a lot of fundamental issues but I don't mean with the document I mean fundamental issues with with how we do resource retrievals and resource uh State updates so it could be a special consideration section I guess that talks about proxies and other other yeah also considering that so far the document has always been information on so right um it's gonna have to I I know that the way that we were we did have one section talking about proxy and caching but now I'm trying to I'm struggling to find that section implementation considerations but oh yes we do uh the last paragraph in implementation considerations but you might be right we might be might be more prudent to have a special section on proxy considerations yeah it was just good Kirsten to bring that up I'd forgotten that that was a big part of the discussion but Klaus and I had also as the part of that diagram"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "had two proxies and what if they disagree Etc but we can we can talk through that also because I think that that um we don't really have any showstoppers there just that we need to make it clear what what the expected thing is and and that it that it could work this way kind of thing so one other thing that's easy to forget is that the local cash in a client has a number of the same considerations that epoxy has so when when you fix things so they work through a proxy you already know that the local cash in the client is not going to to create your problem okay I think we will try to uh document that as well if I may make a final remark on on how thorough this all needs to be in my understanding the a situation where there is no Ops where there is a lag without observe um May legitimately um degrade a bit in the number of notifications that are exchanged because the polling by the the polling will happen a bit slower than the notification so just because we're considering that such a lag might exist doesn't mean that such a lag needs to Faithfully represent exactly the same outcome because this is there is a degradation and that is okay and and that may happen it's just that eventual consistency still needs to be there and it probably is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:04",
    "text": "thank you and please double check it's captured correctly in the means because it was a very good point any other comments anyone okay be like I think you and your photos have a better digest and reflect an expression I suppose you'd also like to work in parallel with whatever comes from um Enos review yes I think I think that would be great so yeah we'll wait for her review and then uh we'll try to meanwhile I think I will use the um the editors copy in GitHub to just reflect some of these things right okay thank you very much thank you okay and the next in line will be Kirsten with karcom okay um yeah the funny thing that media who doesn't allow you to unusual you are manipulating slides anyway um [Music] um I wanted to talk about briefly about two drafts of Concord so to remind everyone we have four documents in the car control Suite 9254 is an RFC Michael do you want to say something no I just unmuted so that I would could unmute faster it's really a problem that you cannot see whether people are fully unmuted or half unmuted thank you so um yeah 90 to 54 is done we are working on course hit and we we have great feedback from Rob Wilton that that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "is improving the document uh we have Carl comai that that has passed working glass coil for a while but that we couldn't really progress um because there was still uncertainty around Yang sibo and Carson and finally um we have uh Carl Yang Library which passed working with us called a while ago but then the the Yang Community has advanced so much uh in that time we may have to revisit this set at the time when we get to it but that's not on the agenda today let's talk about corset and call Kuma um for the uh for this meeting so in cause it if you look at the GitHub repository that there are essentially two pull requests here uh one I think uh is mostly done and it could be merged that's the 146 that addresses the need to document our objectives uh for doing seed management so what do we want to get right here it took us a while to get feedback for that but the feedback is getting better and better so um yeah maybe uh that's the way it works and the other observation is is a more specific one about the need for a stable field in the Sid file um well the point about the Sid file is um this is the way the the people who do a module uh communicate with the people who use the model but it's also and I think we haven't paid enough attention to that aspect uh it's a way for the people who do a module to actually communicate among each other and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "um there are some assumptions about who has control over what uh that that just don't work in the more General uh situation so that's why the the Sid file issue comes up and uh only a couple of minutes ago Michael Richardson made a comment on pr141 that is really useful and that really addresses this aspect by by making sure we actually can channel the information that needs to flow between the the people who do a Yang module um yeah so I'm not expecting that we can fully discuss this uh here today Michael yeah so um I I could quickly um render uh a patch to piang to uh be able to uh read that new field in and save it with whatever value it had before and I think that is easy to do um uh whether it's this version or another version um the real question is how do you how what do you do to Market as stable and how does that work and who does that and that's not that's a little bit of a yeah what what what uh option do you put on the Ping command line but it's also who puts that option and when uh and you know that is actually more of a process issue um so I would suggest we don't go with an enumerated as I said I think we can get more information in there um that's useful um but um anyway regardless of what we put in that Jason because it's all Json file right now um so we could actually change our mind several times without changing too much um I think we can make ping mostly work and I think I'm hopeful enough now to do it um but we need to decide what needs to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "be done yeah that's a really good point for Michael so encoding who made that statement um it has the problem that the who might also need to imply why and when and other questions you might have about that um so I think we have to be a bit careful that we don't create a a god variable here that encodes the whole history of the universe um in in one um identifier so I think we really have to go through the the Sid mechanics that are defined in the document and then make sure the various types of communication that we want to have um uh open and of course like a client so somebody who uses a module doesn't really care about all that the the client just sees the the location um but the the actors that actually work on the module and modify the module and and finish the module uh those actually need to to communicate in a clear way um so um Rob gave some gave some feedback two hours ago and um that's really useful and and very detailed so we will take a few days to actually process this um but one point he brought up uh was we need to we need a way to record obsolete so designers so if Sid has been used in in previous iterations and you know just want to to record that you are not going to reuse this because it's going to confuse implementations of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "the order versions um then it's probably needs to be a way to carry these around um in in the Sid files so there may be some tricks to encode this uh by by recording high water marks in the ranges or something like that but I think that gets complicated uh quickly and since these Sid files are not messages you send back and forth all day we don't have to be particularly optimal um when when encoding this information so maybe having a status of obsolete is useful um the interesting thing about absolute assignments is that you don't really care about the the Yang path uh you only care about the SID number that has been consumed and now is is no longer available so we will have to look at that okay so I I brought up what's currently in the Sid file and Michael has argued we have to expand on this um and uh Define um or describe actually who made the determination that that something is stable um or what unstable actually really means so that that will be a discussion if we probably will have to convene a design team uh for uh again so my plan is to to spend some time on processing Rob's feedback this will certainly take us into the next week because he also has some some new issues some of which may be very simple to fix but some of which also may require some thinking and we also have a few issues that we left open until we understood our Direction on 141 and 146 so we have to do work on these"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "um so um yeah the plan probably is that we will uh have one or more design team meetings uh edit the document and then at some point generated Dash 20 that actually covers these uh issues any comments on that so then I would like to quickly talk about uh called comai um that has been in a frozen state for a while and now after sawing it uh we found that we really have an issue with the K query parameter um now the the ah the issue here is that we're trying to be at least a little bit actually to be compatible here um by by allowing get access but the native way of using glaucoma is actually using fetch because then we can describe uh what we actually want in terms of of see what encoded young identifiers and that that is just the the right way to do this and the K perimeter always was a way to express these um uh young identifiers in in a way that it can be put into a texture representation in a uh get UI so this is really the the place where we need to work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "and just as a reminder the the current um definition for how to set up the Escape parameter is really complicated because it requires you to look at the yang data type and apply different encodings uh for the information you'll find in in these young data types and most of these encodings produce either decimal digits or base 64 digits um but uh for for Strings uh the the existing cardio tradition tries to be transparent which is great uh but uh um yeah uh we that that creates a problem as we will see in the next slide and uh actually looking at all these these cases most of them actually already use uh you are a safe Basics if I encoding and most of the ones that don't um use the decimal integer encoding which is definitely less efficient than base64 encoding so that there is a single uh um well Boolean is a special case and the single case string which also happens to be the most likely thing you you want to put into where you'll get requests that is handled transparently and um yeah the current proposal does not optimize for this frequent case so we might have a three to four uh expansion here so looking at this some more um actually the the full K parameter is assembled together uh from keys that are encoded as on the previous slide um by separating them with commas and yeah that that doesn't take into"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "account that the strings you might have as as Leaf values that turn into keys uh these strings actually also can contain commas so we definitely cannot stay with uh what we had in the previous draft that that actually does not uh work um so we could simply uh simplify this table and say everything is basically file coded or we could actually uh optimize this a little bit uh by turning the whole thing into a sibo sequence if we have more than one key and encoding the whole civil sequence in base64 url and that that is way more efficient than than the comma separated stuff Christian um but if I understand cracking the whole point of this exercise is to be a bit more compatible with HTTP now if we do custom stuff here anyway like the C4 sequence can't we just make fetch happen and um and fetch it is well she asked me yes so um the decision to have both Fetch and get was taking some three four five years ago uh when there were still Co-op implementations out there that didn't do that and um that didn't do fetch so uh I'm we might decide that this simply is overtaken by events and you should be doing a fetch um yeah the the disadvantage is that not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:03",
    "text": "so just sending the the Sid may be a nice way of doing things I don't know Michael Oh I thought I saw something move there sorry yeah that's an interesting suggestion to Simply get rid of the things so we we simplify this radically um that fetch is now around and established was the guidance this group gave to the DNS of record authors yes so the question really is how much of glaucoma is is already deployed out there in weird environments that that make using fetch hard um because the DNS staff is not out there so we really have a green field uh situation um but komai has been discussed for for 10 years now and this draft draft 11 has been out for a couple of years and people might have implemented that and we probably want to ask people whether that is the case but apart from that yes I agree with you not doing it is always the simplest uh a component that is not present has the smallest mod of bugs great so the the question really should be it's 2023 do we still have to cater with uh cater to non-fetching um implementations and if not we can simplify things a lot so that that's great in Butch um yeah my plan uh is to to uh get this case"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:03",
    "text": "simplification done uh now um this draft I'm interested in moving this draft forward because I'm actually the shepherd for that and uh foreign we need to find out who who actually can push this forward um so we we reach the finishing line so I think all the the authors are currently not focusing on this one one is retired and and so on um so uh there certainly will be the usual editorial dance and uh uh so that that needs to be done and of course we need a great feedback like we just got from Christian from the working group to do this finishing five so again uh the the next step is uh doing a design team meeting and and getting as many of the original authors together as possible and uh then uh decide what the content of the dash 12 uh version of the draft will be Dash 11 has been expired for quite a while now um and uh yeah dash 12 needs to get out at some point in time uh and we should decide what we want to have in there that's all I wanted to say thanks Karsten any more input or comment anyone if no then we can move on to the last item and that's on me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:06",
    "text": "right um it's about the age of uh draft I'm not another this is a follow-up of a point we uh started to discuss at an interview meeting in October so I thought of giving a follow-up on what happens or what happens is then about it the topic in question is about the efficient encoding of the URI scheme with a negative integer as an identifier which has been possible from the start actually in the slide you can see just the the current Construction in the latest revision of the draft uh where some schemes are mentioned up front with intended negative integers from abbreviation otherwise more in general you can have the scheme indicated as a text string or a negative integer and what we started to discuss in October was uh having a better care and especially in the interest of extensibility on an easier use of the negative integers opening for um well more schemes to be considered Upfront for an abbreviation dhref document and for a new registry where uh the the IDS can also be actually registered and since this is good to do in general it's in enough motivation to do that but we also had some case in point already uh one is another document in core uh multicast notification where and there is in fact an open PR already from Christian uh proposing to revise the format of one message where we need to express well Uris for now and for now in a textual representation but um inside to use Cris for that and of course wanting to use the the negative integers which would also as a side effect the simplification the radical"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "simplification of um yet another registry defining that document and a subset of that would also be useful in yet another document for the value of a Corp option where Cris would also be better off to use although limited to a scheme and Authority only uh but back to the main topic uh again the discussion started in during in October you you can check the means for the details and right after the interim um a pull request uh followed up uh from Karsten it's still open and Carson and I had further discussions on the topic um end of last year and things progressed quite a bit and the pull request got updated uh but there is especially one uh still open Point deserving attention uh we think but to give a status update uh well that was the easy one uh defining upfront a bit more URI schemes that deserve to have um a negative integer ID already from the href document uh so the overall CDL definition was updated as you see in the slide and Carson also started a Wiki um to collect schemes for which we want to have um IDs also uh defined up front but that was pretty easy and uncontroversial uh then the main thing was about uh creating the the registry and of course defining proper registration guidelines um around it um so the register was also added to the pr it's quite simple uh I think the original idea was specification required but it was just good enough to to go for expert review instead uh it was uh quite clear from the start and so that was also added that you really need to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "careful in registering IDs in the OnePlus zero on one plus one space uh that's really for um iot use cases and especially being sure that you are considering a scheme that can enjoy a wide use and otherwise you still have the OnePlus 2 uh space which should be kind of the default choice if you want and after some discussion with Karsten we thought it's just better to consider especially that um that space to um to handle the corner case if you want of schemes that are registered and only provisionally according to the status they have in the URI schemes um registered so they should really uh take an ID um in that space unless the design desperate has really strong reasons uh to believe uh some of the more precious ideas are better considered um then there was also the point to um ensure to raise awareness about the existence of this new registry in the first place and of Cris all together as a side effect uh so what was also added to uh the pr uh Indiana consideration was um a request for Ayana to add a note to the URI schemes registry about mentioning the existence of the new URL scheme ID registry and the policies around uh registration there and in a sense so far so good uh but there it comes the the big open point which is when exactly uh should the scheme ID registration happen uh we want to avoid a situation where um a new URL scheme is registered and an ID is not uh and then later on it is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "and then that they would compromise a lot interoperability with people that are just used maybe maybe for years about using the textual representation uh only that of course remains uh possible um so with that in mind the um the original proposal which is the the current content of the pr by the way uh is to admit uh okay the the early pre-registration of IDs from the href document of course uh but then in future um registrations can happen only uh at one specific point in time meaning when the URI scheme itself is registered um now now or never and I will solve uh the the problem that we want to avoid uh but we think it may still leave a problem open meaning uh the authors of the URI scheme uh registering it might um intentionally not care uh or have no reason or no one may have a reason at that point uh for registering an ID but that reason may come up later on and and then you'll be too late based on the current idea uh it would not be possible to register NAD anymore uh so maybe the current proposal is too strict in a sense meaning it can still be about registering the ID Now or Never when registering the URI scheme but maybe it shouldn't be uh just optional to consider but it must happen and hopefully it can also be um automated so considering this possible alternative approach um a revision would be a pre-registering uh an ID for all the current existing URI schemes of course choosing wisely the correct number space and then every time a new URI scheme is registered that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "automatically triggers um an ID registration tool and looking back to the minutes of the October interim actually escort proposed uh this in the first place and and there was also an exchange with Christian about possible complications that that create for conversion from URI to CRI um so that's where we are now is good to have more input especially on this open point and we also plan to continue the discussion um on Friday this week during the coral href um design meeting uh don't know if you want to add anything or qualify anything Carson that I might have missed yeah I just would uh like to remind people that this is really the x-dish um problem that we have had in a large number of protocols in the ITF um where there was a way to have a provisional identifier for something often this identifier started with x dash for extension and then at some point the the feature went mainstream and people thought they might now be able to allocate a permanent identifier for the future but if people already had implemented the the x- identifier then there was absolutely no reason to move to the new identifier because the old identifier was going to be perfectly interoperable by the new identifier is only going to be known by new implementations and since nobody uses the new name also new implementations actually won't pick it up at all so it's as good as only using the old implementation with the old name um all the time and given that we would like to to reap the benefits of uh using"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:03",
    "text": "numeric identifiers for schemes as far as possible instead of getting stuck um at the text identifier when the numeric identifier hasn't been registered early enough um that that is a very special form of the sex Dash problem thank you so is there any early input especially on this certain point today already yeah otherwise I'm sure we'll get back to it uh Friday this week for sure and by the way more in general the href document yeah there are still a few open issues and PRS other than this uh I think some issues can actually be closed already like uh 53 and 54. I'm pretty sure uh the latest revision already addressed those uh but we can also do some uh clean up about that on Friday okay that's it that's your current status seeing no comments in the chat and now I'm a few uh we are at the end of the agenda or at the AUB is there anything else you want to discuss about core today see none then a huge thanks to Christian and Enrique for taking minutes and talk to you in two weeks thank you everyone for joining thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "thank you bye"
  }
]
