[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:28",
    "text": "e that's strange so Peter are you able to see that request to share slides because for some reason it's uh I can't uh unless I'm forgetting how Meco works but if there's a way for you to accept that because it's not letting me just share okay um let me do it again and maybe I'm doing something wrong here it should just let me share I believe since I'm the one of the leads but that does not seem to be working today okay let's try this instead"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "is anyone else seeing a request to uh present slides because oddly enough it doesn't give me the option to just present myself I'm wondering if someone else Charles should have some other button if you're if you're a share of this session you should be able to just give yourself the right to share without that's what I'm used to but it doesn't seem like I'm able to do that today maybe you have logged in wrongly it knows who I am but for some reason I can't uh share today is it a possible browser permissions issue you know it asked me initially about uh giving permission to my audio and video and that all worked just fine okay maybe I can ask you to to share slides and then we see what happens yeah sure I can see that you're asking but I'm not able to Grant your request I'm wondering this is because you are lead instead of chairs if there is some something there yeah under chairs there's nobody listed no maybe that's the reason it could be a change to me Teo since because last time this worked just fine when we had the interum okay but uh but I honestly don't remember how I showed up if I was a lead or a chair uh I'm going to try logging out and just logging back in just to see if it asks me any questions I may be messed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "up on I'll be back okay yeah let's try I'm back but I don't think I have have any different permissions no only nobody's listed as chair right okay well since no one's listed as chair I think what we're going to have to do unfortunately is I don't see a way for us to uh share anything on the screen um so people are going to have to be um let me just uh if you look at the agenda uh and just bear with me if you have a better idea how to go about this let me know but the the agenda is basically we have about a half hour at the start where we plan to go through some slides that uh Peter and I have put together they're kind of based on an update um given to 3gpp to let that Community know what's going on between iatf and 3gpp and so that's been um updated and we just have found that a good way to kind of go through somewhat quickly um an overview of of the what's happened uh since the last last time we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "met and uh both what's going on with 3gpp and what's going on in the ITF side um and then the rest of the sessions just kind of open if people have other topics uh they wanted to discuss um we're also planning as we normally do to have a a Clos session a smaller session at iotf on Monday uh during the lunch break and there'll be more information uh about that that'll be a a meeting there on site at ietf and there we'll try to tackle some uh some more specific topics that require a bit more time uh and things that might be U identified on this call so first of all any questions about that agenda or things that people wanted to bring up and add to the agenda okay then the next thing would be if you look in the uh meeting materials there is a set of slides uh that Peter has uploaded and that he'll be going through today um why do I not see those slides here that looks like that's not working either um maybe the chat's working though right so let me put something in the chat I can put a link to the slides in the chat re refresh and it comes up oh that's interesting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:17",
    "text": "okay yeah so I'm able to see the slides now that I did that um and hopefully everyone else can too I'll paste them in the chat just in case anyone's not finding them oh that service is not responding is the chat not working for other people can anyone Place anything in the chat it doesn't work for me either I get the taking too long to respond message [Music] okay all right um sorry so I can't place the link there but uh hopefully everyone has has been able to find the slides if you uh there's a little icon on you can find it from the website if you go to the meeting materials for this meeting but uh also if you go to the um the meeting materials the little folder up in kind of one of the top right icons if you click on that you should be able to get a link to the agenda and a link to the slides so you can download your own copy of the slides and then uh Peter um whenever you are ready well first of all does anyone uh need more time to get a copy of the slides is there a pdf [Music] version uh I guess not usually I thought that gets created automatically when you upload the PPT that usually you get a a pdf version created for you um that looks like that didn't work either"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "maybe I don't have the right link for that all right I'll try to upload it to something that will open them thank you so so then Peter I guess uh maybe what you can do is you can go ahead and run through your slides and as you change slides each time just tell people which slide you're on and we'll try to get through it that way and uh and if anyone has questions or Falls uh either on the content or if they they're not sure where we are just uh you know go ahead let us know and we'll try to clear that out yeah yeah let let's start then with the slides so slide one is just the uh headlines I think that this is regarding to the itgb coordination call which we are in on slide two then we have here the different topics regarding SGP ITF coordination the ongoing liation license statement exchange between ITF and SGP and then ongoing Ayana actions and then the status of the SB ITF dependencies and then any other business on slide three just the headline for SB ITF coordination on slide four just the summary from the just see summary from the last ITF meeting and that we will have a meeting at the next meeting in brag I think nothing special to be highlight on Slide Five here we have these uh ongoing action regarding ITF 3B IAB group here we have this was created in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "2023 and these action that the RFC 3113 still needs to be updated and uh there was also this uh update of the dependency list tool or create a new one with the with ITF support any question on these since no sorry to interrupt um yes uh not a question on this but I have reported that we weren't able to share slides and I think you both have been added as delegates now so just to see if this is fix the problem I me Charles okay he has disconnected I was going to suggest that uh Charles I was suggesting that you would disc like exit the meeting and come back and see if it has been fix fixed uh we have tried this already Charles has left and returned and nothing has Chang yeah just trying again we can okay let me see if it's working uh yeah I didn't completely leave the meeting but I I just reloaded uh FL requested no looks like it's still not working I'm going to completely leave the meeting go ahead uh and that's it okay yeah okay so on the slide five we still have these two ongoing action points regarding these dependency list tool and regarding the update of the RFC 3113 let's come to the ITF CP license statements on slide seven we have the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "first one this was the repal S on DTS for the SB next steps and request for input this was coming from iatf tsv WG and there was feedback from sa3 which uh sorry Peter which slide are you on now because I'm able to share slide slide seven on slide seven we have the first sorted forms ah you managed to uh yeah fastic got that sorted out for us by with by so it seems to be working now ah okay so slide seven which is shown on the screen we have here these Li statement which was initiated by I by the tsv WG group and there was feedback provided from sa3 and R 3 and from ESS 3 the reply was simply that uh the interpretation of ITF gr working group of all security requirements is correct and that's these are generic best practice properties of all security protocols and said sa3 prefers solution two because this has uh Mr and the intention in the interpretation of ss3 was that this would have lower implementation effort and the reply from ran 3 was regarding sctp implementation this when not it discussed by R three but R three does not want to limit the maximum message size of the application protocol and for this reason they appreciate all solution it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "doesn't have any limitation on the message size as they have the see the problems as this may not uh fulfill the requirements from bron three next slide please yep and I just add on that I think uh from a lerson perspective I think we have the information we needed this point in time from 3gpp the the problem's not solved and that's still being discussed within tsv WG how best uh uh go about you know uh providing a solution that addresses the requirements but uh but there's nothing needed at this time from a lay perspective from or input from 3 as far as I'm aware if anyone thinks that's different you know let us know yeah especially from my perspective I think these around three requests that we should not put any message size maximum size in this might be a tricky Point usually this is always tricky point if you do not have any if you cannot go on on a message on a size for the message let's go to the next one so this is a live statement from this was uh an LS from 3B to from uh in LS on the need for modeling is invariant and System created in Yang to net mode in March 23 the three requirements where a solution to represent the is invariant and System created properties in ITF defined young statements is need to be support SB State 3 young data"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "model and sa5 who was addressed by is have the draft ma net mode the the draft RC as a potential solution and this was discussed at the last ITF meeting in uh in the net mode group and there was in the working group there was a poll for this uh draft RFC and this was open until September and uh interest company should report any uh should be active on this mailing list and ref you the draft and share their opinions I haven't seen anything on this so I do not know exactly if something has changed or how many people have made their comments on this draft yeah there were a bit of uh uh people in support of adopting the draft there were some concerns as well um last I checked there hadn't been a definitive call whether to adopt it or not I believe that this is going to be a topic of discussion that i18 in Fr okay so we may get an answer to this in the next meeting in two weeks so we can go to the next slide then this was an LS which was sent from iatf on on the framework for Network slicing Network build from itfs ITF Technologies this was sent in October 23 it comes from the I traffic engineering architecture and sign group and the informs the uh different"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "working groups in in 3p about feedback especially for sa 2 sa3 sa 5 and R 3 uh this the working groups had a meeting in this two weeks ago but sa 2 and sa 3 sa5 did your scheduled this LS they have scheduled for the next meeting in November which is exactly in the week after uh the iatf meeting except sa3 they have it in the same week so we will not get any reply to this LS before the ITF next ITF meeting R three has had a look on this LS and they do not see any interactions with r three current ongoing work so they have just noted the ls without any reply or any detailed feedback so we have to wait this this was this was really for information to let them know that it's out there and if they have feedback great but uh there's not a specific action either yeah yeah at at least R three has not give any action to them to their delegates so we can go to the next Slide the tracking of a requests here we had a number of I requests which were done and currently none is open so all these requests which have been handled so far you can see on the uh C page and this is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "uh mentioned here on this if you search it without this without this link on this web page then you see can find this if you're going through Page under ct1 and under ct1 you get these link regarding inl requests and everything what happens there maybe you can go for to the next slide yeah actually though Peter one question on this so there were a lot of assignments as you point out uh uh as a result of the release 17 specifications so release 18 specifications are uh kind of nearing completion at this point a lot of those are being approved do you expect there to be a whole another round of assignments coming out of that release I is that just kind of typical that they all kind of come as the the release kind of gets wrapped up yeah I I have checked if we have New Media types many most of the requests new requests were media types and up to now I do not have an overview if we will have New Media types in W 18 as well okay so if there one then we will get a request but I would assume after the next meeting we should have some latest after the February meeting but I will try to trigger this in the next in the November meeting to making people aware that they should uh be active in requesting this and should not wait until the last minute so they do not have these requests and after the uh freeze date should be done earlier okay yeah sounds good yeah at least it was not a good idea to have is 17 a couple of months after everything"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "should have been completed we should be FAS on this yeah and maybe now people are more aware of of the process and the ability to do that in more timely manner yeah and especially now everybody knows where to find the forms to fill in which is also helpful if someone knows what to do it's easier to do the job okay let's see so we can go on to uh ITF dependencies it it so uh then new published rfcs with the next one and uh here we had these uh these RFC 9410 so in CT documentation these reference are done so this is solved in both in ITF and also in the uh C area so this bullet point will be will disappear after this and then we have another issue which was in uh I think it was in sa3 area extension of data Crum transport layer security and here also the ITF has done the job and now the job has to be done in the sa working group which owns the TS which refers to this draft RFC to replace it with the correct RFC now and do the checking that this RFC is exactly what I want and then ITF reference updates nothing so far okay and then drafts in RFC editors Cu uh here we have uh two"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "ongoing I think nothing special to be highlighted regarding these draft itd password rcd in version 26 currently so here we are waiting that this becomes an RFC and then we can update the references to this R of seon and the same on the it Ste messaging same situation we also waiting that this becomes an RFC I haven't seen any updates on this okay yeah I think those are just in process yes looks issue that I'm aware of yeah at least according to it data trackers there was no change and then on slide 19 that's the next slide here we have uh the drafts under isg review here we have one SE draft ITF de net young version 18 and here this was also uh yeah the last update was in July and the next would be then also to publish as a proposed standard RFC and related updates I haven't seen any progress on this one so it's seems to be still in Rie process yeah I believe that's correct great then on slide 20 see headlines and on slide 21 we have here the documents which are currently active in the working groups here we have the draft ITF quick"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "multipass this is a new reference which was added by sa 2 and yeah and here we're waiting that the working group in ITF complete this task and then we can use this as a reference in uh stage two and I would assume that also when the work is continuing on the stage three work in 3gp as a reminders the SB is working these three stages stage two and stage three stage three is in the detailed protocol work and we have when we have the detailed protocol work then we will have also I would assume a number of references to this draft and then for the drafta update pisit Network here it's also something which is ongoing in the working group and we need are waiting for that this will be completed and here we are a step further so in the rated State shoot ts's the draft is already referenced yes so there was some this was there was some discussion within the core working group on this but uh I didn't see a a resolution out of this so is anyone on this call following this uh closely um if not I just plan to talk to the the draft author and sub core chairs and see if there's uh anything that needs to happen there that we can help with because it's it's been kind of quiet since uh since June okay I'm that's just one one thing I had"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "for followup okay oh thanks Peter you can go ahead yeah at least I had a discussion with ran and he also didn't mention anything to me on this okay and then we had in in submissions on slide 23 here we have also these Trav B Ops a w TS attachment circuit this is an reference in one of the in 28541 in in an sa5 TS this I found this as referenced and I need to check the and I haven't checked the I haven't seen any progress on this one so I haven't seen that this has become anything that it becomes an RFC or status on this one it it look like to be adopted by the working group they had an adoption call and it was mostly there was a lot of support around this and a couple other documents and I think it's just a matter of whether all the documents go ahead as they are or if there's some kind of a consolidation that happens but it looks like uh it's going to get adopted in some form and worked on within the working group it's just what it's a exact draft or a combination of this with something else I think that they're figuring out yeah yeah I have to say we have added this one very late and I only find this have found this more or less due to an email which I found last at the last ITF meeting when I found an email about this and I noted that there was a link this these R draft IC refuted in the 3pts because no this is not reported correctly inside"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "3p so here is based on this I detected action to me that I need to be more careful that I got the detailed uh information what needs to be tracked on the ITF side so here we have some hole in the brokers in the procedes is that uh with the way this appears in the work plan was that not done cor yeah let's say in this way it seems in this case uh the chair of the working group forgot to request that this should be uh added to the work plan okay I see all right that's why I said I need to uh improve the process here a little bit to make sure that these things are are done yeah okay now that sounds good yeah and then the next thing is is draft Schwarz m music STP for gateways this is something uh which was uh expired in 2016 and we have references in uh in in some of our ts's yeah but uh for some reason it never was procus no one has pushed it that it be completed and now we have the the point that we need to find an expert for this protocol to see how to proceed with this one for those who are not familiar for this this is uh has something to do with the I2 h248 protocol and uh I'm not sure if many people people are using it nowadays at least it's uh very tricky to find"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "experts most of experts are left their companies or they more or less retired or have retired um did you uh did you by any chance know Lionel was going to I thought there was someone he was following up with do you know if that uh if that happened and if it didn't either didn't uh work out or if that's still um like there was a a solution there the point yeah the point here is that uh Le has found the same person as me which was a consultant working for haway but this consultant is no more working for Huawei and all his email addresses does not work anymore and he is not active in this topic anymore so he simply disappeared and now I'm searching for someone one else okay this was a tricky point that uh Leonel and I had the same contact person and person is no is not not there anymore and this group on age2 for8 is also not very active so we in a small deadlock here okay okay and then the next slide would be any other business and I haven't found anything I think this completes the presentation of the slides okay well great thanks Peter and apolog to everyone for the uh the issues at the start hopefully everyone's able"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "to kind of follow along um any other questions about uh that overview anything you were expecting to be covered there that we didn't cover there are some uh 3gv related documents and other working groups um I don't know if there's a general like uh letting people know about about documents doing stuff with uh 3gbp referencing 3gp documents or or if that you want to save that for the for an inperson meeting in Prague um knowing about those now would would be would be handy I think uh uh they only start getting trapped once they've moved from kind of the um the study phase to actually like a work item within 3gpp so it could be or or in some cases we actually do miss them because we're having a problem with our dependency tracking tool so it's a there is a a fair amount of manual work that uh that Peter's doing to try to track these things down so uh certainly if you're aware of things in other working groups that we should be following that that would be uh that would be helpful to know about uh there are some there are a couple of things uh the first one is not yet working group item but they have requested time in Prague to present in six man um about IPv6 over v2x just presenting some like how to run iv6 over the over the v2x stuff uh I think it looks fairly anod but uh I'm not detailed enough I think the complex it's not the same as the former IP wve work um the complexity there of course I think was all the routing stuff stuff but uh this looks like a general IPv6 uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "over new o over sub IP layer type document but it's not yet a a working group document the other things that I might call folks attention to are in the DMM working group um there's uh I guess I'll just say there's some ongoing work to write informational documents about how to do uh Operator 3gpp Operator things using srv6 instead of GTP informational being a document status that was important to getting past some previous concerns with um uh srv6 mobile user plane Network programming extensions uh functions but uh anyway there's a there's a handful of documents there I don't need to go on about them uh unless uh unless folks I mean folks can yeah thanks yeah I think these regarding these srv6 stuff uh I think in 3p we had already some time ago we had a study uh if we should replace GTP with srv6 and this was I think it was in the second in it was discussion during Rel 16 which was a second release for five G and uh at that point in time there was the issue that uh people didn't have seen the uh Advantage out of this especially operators didn't see the uh opportun what that they could make a lot of money out of this if they would do the change so there was a lot of uh blocking from operator side in 3p yeah there are uh liaison uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "statements uh in in the past that uh record 3gbps basically uh stance about not uh pursuing srv6 uh but uh the DMM working group wanted to publish some Network programming srb6 extensions for people who did want to do it uh and there was this this sort of went uh went around for a while it became an informational document really uh and it's RFC 9433 um and uh there's continuing discussion just about you know hey if this is something you want to do here's how you do it kind of stuff they are uh well aware that they are not supposed to uh impinge upon 3dv things but they don't know uh you know exactly when something would cross someone's someone's line so yeah let's say my personal view on this would be this might be a discussion which should be started uh when we start with 6G maybe in 6G when we usually when you start with a new version then uh there's always discussion which protocols to be used and this analyzer starts and usually at the first step and is that currently slated for release 19 or is that 20 or uh that's a good question I there is no I cannot say any official statement but I would assume we are talking here about release 20 21 something like this I see thank you I can tell you more in the in our next call after December at least in December we have we have some discussions on this understood thank you uh yeah I think that's that's all I had um uh just one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "document in six man and a a smattering of informational document work in DMM if anybody wants to track that stuff thank you okay thank you yeah and then H can you hear me uh yeah you're a little faint but I want to compliment what Charles was mentioning about DM point out one one particular draft which is evolution of mobile user plane that that's developed under in DMM discussions it's a very interesting document in that sense that that it's not aiming for any ietf specification but directly 3pp specification and still they are they would like that the would be adapted but working group so it's worth of mentioning in this context okay you're saying that's uh essentially related to the the documents that Eric was mentioning as well about srv6 no it's a different approach Al together second question can be used as as one one of the carrier protocols this is this is more of a on architectural level of 3gp uh they are proposing to get rid of soal and three reference points point or interface between the run and and core Network and St leverage in DN and and As A F step of that dire some this is uh not yet adopted this is an individual draft at the moment okay and and which uh which draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "is that evolution of mobile user plan I'm my it's a draft Zang DMM mup Evolution with hyphens in the middles of things okay great thanks yes so we'll we we'll definitely keep an eye on on that as [Music] well okay any other uh topics okay well uh great um with that maybe we'll just go ahead and and wrap up uh then um I guess uh you can watch on the list for more information about uh the agenda and the the logistical stuff for um follow-up meetings at at uh i118 um but uh for those of you who are traveling I guess you know safe travels there and look forward to seeing you there and for those of you who aren't uh of course we have a good tools hopefully an easier time with Meo When we arrive there we'll have some of these little quirky things ironed out but uh but thanks a lot for joining and see you again soon and thanks Peter for running through the slides thanks for the comments and see you s in [Music]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "Ro byebye everyone okay byebye thanks Charles bye bye Charles bye bye Peter thank you bye"
  }
]
