[
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:07",
    "text": "foreign hi Laura hi everybody actually meet that could get very very silent if no one has the mic turned on yeah it's the opposite of what is everybody's muted until they unmute yeah okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:04",
    "text": "foreign we are waiting a little bit for more people to join and uh we are at nine participants at the moment Stuart do you remember if I understanding was going to show up today like right I I vaguely remember him saying no but I can't remember that's the same for me I mean that's why I asked I think he said no and Matthew won't be here today because he's on holiday I think okay I think we'll wait till next week"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:18",
    "text": "okay it's 1006 we are 10 participants um we can wait one more minute or if you think uh someone else will join um and he said he's not Nick also said that he's a very very strong Maybe usually Tony is on these calls Tony Lee but I don't see him um yeah [Music] Tony joins later oh okay yeah because he definitely was in the discussion [Music] okay thank you Greg all right though I'm ready to start I think this is about it some people might join after no that's fine with me okay good uh so welcome and thanks for joining everyone this is the second m a uh interim that we're having um yeah I mean maintaining the numbering maybe a hassle so we'll look into maybe keeping the date uh as a reference if we go out of sync on the numbering but as usual this interim is a joint"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "meeting between three working groups mpls palsan.net and we have attendance from the three working groups at the moment um uh okay I'll move on since this is an interim we have to remind everyone of the note 12. this session is being recorded um it's recorded in and it will be broadcast on YouTube and for anyone to see it after the note well is the set of practices that or processes and that govern our contributions as well as the different processes in IDF so I will leave it for you to go through them if you haven't already some useful pointers we are flashing every time uh blue sheets you know that by now they're automatically generated and you can spec them at any time after uh on the meeting materials page and the rest of the pointers are for you to get easy access to this uh to the material basically so today's agenda is up for bashing now I think we have one slide here and another slide coming up so uh this is the time to um you know bash it and and sound the objection if you have any the agenda is not heavy but we will go on sequentially over stuff uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "so this is the first slide for today's agenda and we will talk more about PSD and uh and uh um some point that they were traced on the meal and lastly but not least is any other business if someone wants to add any item okay I don't see anyone raising their hands so I'll move on uh okay before I move on I'll go to the agenda to grab the first item there so we talked about action items last time and I was reviewing last time's um request for actions we had presented [Music] um a set of questions um so those will come up again in the PSD discussion a set of five questions that we're asking attendees or the working group in general to get answers for and this is one thing an action item I'm tracking we also had a request to get input uh for use cases that are relevant to PSD so if someone has a strong use case for PSD and they want to present it again please come forward and uh and let us know and then you will be on the agenda if you want to to present the use case today we have one uh one such use case and Rakesh will be presenting it but this is the second action item I'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "tracking I did not record any other action item from last time so um if you have any recollection of anything I missed let me know okay so that's item number two on today's agenda oh I don't I don't know okay oh you are you are sorry somehow I didn't see okay lower go ahead so yes a small kind of different view on what we actually asked for uh we are not primarily asking for new use cases though it might turn out to be new use cases we are actually mostly asking for how the existing use cases actually responds to the questions we put up last time and that's the the important discussion we need to have we and that actually is the motivation for do we need PhD or do we not need PST that's uh where we want to go thanks okay thank you all right so the the next item on the agenda is the discussion on label reclaiming label label 14 and we have an update on that um do you want to give the update lower or you want me to update I'm not sure you can do the update I wasn't actually at the meeting and proton"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "okay I I also attended half of the meeting okay so the there was a discussion last time that about a Paul uh um that we we want to send to itu um uh right now it's uh it's waiting to be finalized there is a uh a write-up a rough write-up being prepared and um actually in in liaison that's being prepared to be sent to the itu so that we can ask if a label 14 can be reclaimed we don't have I mean The Impressions we are getting is uh it's a hard process to uh uh to get itu to update their records one and uh you know get this label uh a confirmation on on the label the lyrically um so right now um we uh we have okay maybe um maybe I'm not accurate I'm trying to read through the whole something is on hold lower is it the liaison or a pole no the people sorry yeah the pull to the working group is on hold until we actually have the liaison and I can send that okay that's clear now okay okay so we're not going to send the poll until we send the liaison to itu t uh but uh we have concerns at the moment that uh it's not going to be an easy process to reclaim the label 14 because it's primarily was allocated for itu T"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "purposes okay there's no um no additional feedback on this and we can move on to the first nibble discussion okay and uh why don't Laura you go ahead and talk about that you can move to the slide number six whichever that one yeah yeah so this is my take on where we are in the first nibble discussion uh I kind of see three different cases uh I don't see why not all of them could work so we could allocate a unique value for m a PSD and then we require that the sender sets it and the receiver actually shakes it on receipt there is a uncertainty or actually this method is unsafe because all the packets that we can get into it's not always uh even if you find that unique value in the first nibble is not certain that it is a m a PSD packet so you need to have a additional information carried in the packet to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "actually decide and to my mind that that that what is carried in the packet is enough to actually decide whether in whether it's an m a PSD packet or not so the first neighbor is kind of uncertain and unnecessary we could also set the first nibble to zero and pretty much do the same thing I don't really see any real difference between these two other than and that's uh the third case when you actually set it you can ignore it on on a receipt but if someone else that is not MMA capable actually find that first nibble with the CR there with the value we have allocated for m a PST uh that it could be used to say that okay this is MN apsd I shouldn't do certain things to this it could mean that you actually don't do those certain things to something else but I don't think that that is a catastrophe so yeah those are the three cases I see I don't have a real strong preferences but we need to actually decide among them yeah so I disagree that the first nibble"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "is unsafe you know if if we really don't feel that it's trustworthy and we don't want to make it into actually a DMX point then what's the point of the first nibble draft um you know there if it's just a random number you know that's what it is so our position is somewhat self-contradictory I think okay thank you uh Joel you're next public just like Greg Defenders draft but I think it's that there's good reasons for the first nibble draft we know that there are things which make use of the first nibble and heuristic Fashions and the first nibble draft documents what we know about that first nibble so that if people insist on using heuristics they can do so making it a well-defined D-Max point would be a very very different preposition that I think is a bad idea Greg you're next thank you I can't hear you okay you dropped off Greg occur with Joe okay I see um there have been uh misunderstandings and I I've been part of that uh before so uh clearing clarifying uh this uh setting registry uh putting uh text uh in the document so that it preserved us for the community um I think it's a use a good use of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "document so that's the purpose but uh again um their main purpose of first Nimble is to differentiate from itv4 IPv6 traffic as uh there seemed to be a legacy systems that use it for um loan balancing or some other operations some heuristics okay so that's well and good and the draft makes sense but if you think that turning it into a dmux point is a bad idea could you say more about why it's a bad idea because we have a limited number of points so we always have a limited number of points all fields are finite yeah but you know if we made some mistakes why repeat them so we're going to continue to make a mistake and reuse zero for everything no we evaluate uh Case by case and we decide as a community what makes sense okay well I agree to disagree thank you okay I'm I'm next I I was gonna say that if it was the case then zero would be enough to differentiate from four and six but unfortunately there are multiple applications um that I have started to assign values um one from the top of my mind is beer uh and that net I believe if I'm not mistaken so they're assigning values for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "the first nibble I'm not clear why they chose to do that versus zero so if someone um has the maybe we need to investigate why they chose to use the specific value other than zero but the argument that you could use zero only is not holding today thank you lower your next so I tried to explain what I'm thinking about this the value for M and apsd and then you receive a packet and you only use the first nibble as the D-Max point you cannot be certain that anything that has the number we assigned uh it's a m a PSD packet so it could be for example a ethernet sudowire without the control word and you can't differentiate that on the first neighbor alone on the other hand if you actually go into the stack and look at the bits said tell this that this is an m a PSD packet that information is very strict and very easy to understand and actually give you the right answer so you don't need to look at the first neighbor first neighbor that's where I come from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "thanks so the first nibble does actually have a semantic I believe the semantic is this is not IP that was the original intended semantic for it for sure um and it is distinguished in in the first time we we we use this in um mpls which was on sudowise the that was distinguished from one which had another semantic within the context of the pseudo-wire label um I.E the service label Dana I thought from memory he used zero um I certainly was was deeply involved in the design I don't remember it using anything other than zero I don't remember any discussion about a value other than zero so I'm pretty certain that detna actually uses zero I do not know why beer used something else and I think maybe we should ask beer why they did it and try and understand whether what they're doing with it is actually safe but I don't think it's safe to make any assumption certainly in a p router it's not safe to make any assumption about the post stack information of whatever sort without having the contact of the context of the label stack telling you explicitly thank you thank you Greg you're back you're at the top of the queue go ahead um I just I think that Stuart already uh clarified that that net effectively uses uh 0 and 1 first nibble so uh analogous to see the wire uh control word is zero first nibble and uh ACH the definite ACH is one so um that net is not trespasser thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "so uh I think maybe someone who knows about beer should explain why beer used a value other than uh zero or one and are there any others can anyone remember I believe in the drafts they were you had uh composed or compiled most of the values but yeah I can't remember whether there's anything other than that um pseudo wire and um you know IP of course and beer in uh you know are there any other protocols we need to consider um as we uh pointed in um well I can't remember this all latest as we pointed out in the latest update of first Naval draft uh and uh nsh uh so it's a sfc uh nsh uh plays interesting uh trick uh with the first nibble uh and that might result at some point in the future uh in first nibble after Alice mpls label stack to be some other value hmm okay the whole year at the top of the queue go ahead just to clarify nsh's use of that first nibble is not for dmox and Sh assumes right you have other means of knowing that nsh is present it was merely to avoid accidental confusion that we went with a different value it was not for dmux thank you yes thank you Joe okay maybe maybe that point at the end uh it was used to eliminate confusion I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "think this is what um one of the bullets there is trying to achieve is to not use it to dmux but so um if if you can clarify further uh Joel what did you mean by eliminate confusion thanks so they there was it was pointed out in the sfc working group that in principle because of the way it can be carried nsh could follow and mpls label stack that's perfectly allowed there's even a I think now rfcs to tell you how to do it so we wanted to make sure that it didn't get confused with value four or six and since there were spare nibble values we used to Value other than zero but frankly in in retrospect we probably could have just used zero but at the time we were also crying to say well if you care you're not gonna if you're doing some more complicated heuristic you're not going to think it's something else but I don't think anybody made use of that aspect hmm thank you Laura you're next now you can hear me uh yeah I think that the bullet number three is very close to what the SOC are doing um you you prescribe to put a certain value in there but you don't need to check it when you receive a packet and if someone else sees it it could draw some conclusions given that you can't distinguish it on the first nibble only from a ethernet so do I without a control word"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "that has the same value in the first neighbor and that's what I mean but that's what I mean when I say sound safe okay [Music] I am not quite so confident that we won't ever want to do a D-Max on this um so I mean I'll give you an example and we probably should have been wiser at the time when we designed suited work we didn't anticipate that we would need an oem because OEM wasn't quite so popular in those days um and we needed a D-Max we use which is why we introduced one so I would be fairly cautious about asserting that we would only ever need one value we you don't know whether you will need to do some form of dmups within the protocol on that on that first nibble so I think I would I would not assert or not pick a a number and and say um that no other number will ever be needed okay Jags you're next yeah I have a question uh so after another such discussion right so can nsh coexist uh with the m a header or not yeah that's a good question so uh we discussed uh coexistence in one of the use cases of existing mpls features uh and and nsh in mpls is one existing feature uh the solution is yet to be drawn I think or to be uh put forward um but the use case was in use cases draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "but I'll I'll see if anyone wants to comment on the solution perspective so I think and I don't remember seeing any serious discussion about uh how we would make you work certainly it's not been one of the ones that immediately sprang to mind so we we should add it to the list of sort of interactions that we need to uh to be conscious of um you know together with pseudowires.net and beer correct uh lower your back I kind of kind of agreeing with Stewart that okay we could dmax but this is not the DMX between any value of the first label that's an D marks within the m a protocol so you need to go to the stack decide that this is m a PSD and then you go look what the value is and if we at that time actually assigned this second value for [Music] um m a PSD we can do the d-maxing within the protocol but it's not a general demux I agree so I didn't understand the general DMX story we already have a instack m a label which carries uh you know uh this is what's in the post stack or maybe there is something in the post stack why do we need further uh first nibble yeah maybe can clarify"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:05",
    "text": "um so first of all in terms of General D-Max which I think and turning it correct me if I don't understand it properly I think Tony is is is uh trying to have a world where he can go straight to the bottom of stack and take actions based solely on that first nibble and a number of us are saying we don't believe that to be safe and we were saying that based on um stuff we know is in the wild um in terms of what I think a D-Max is concerned within the protocol um it may be that we wish to create some other construct just as we in sudo was decided to create the ACH um and that first nibble is a good way of demultiplexing within the context provided by the label stack to that point so you would know that you were from the label stack that you had uh PSD um you go down and process the PSD and it may be that the fullness of time we decide we need to add a feature that needs to stand out on on its own at the first nibble rather than be be buried inside the um the actions in the uh post stack data oam was a good one so supposedly we wanted to do some instrumentation of the handling of Ms of um of this work then you might decide to put a d-maps at that point um others can go ahead okay thank you stay away lower your next law okay you dropped off yeah I forgot to take my hand down before okay Tony it's back to you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "Stuart represents me correctly I would like to us to move to a world where the first nibble actually is a DMX point and I'd like for us to be able to use that independently of other signaling mechanisms therefore I recommend that we allocate a code point for m a okay okay Joel you have I actually slightly disagree with Stewart because and well I strongly disagree with Tony I don't think yeah well let me let me I'll come back to that point um given if we assume that we have an indicator in the stack or in control of the presence of post-tac data if we decide we need a nuanced post that data Prime we can put a second indicator in that says oh actually what's there is post-doc data Prime so we don't need to rely even for that on the use of first nibble I would prefer not to rely on first nibble because it's small and overloaded and error prone I I will grant that if you assume control there is control that tells all of the relevant parties that there is post-doc data and if you need post-doc data then you could dive down and find it that way but even if you're doing so you don't need the first nibble to verify it control has told you what's present if it doesn't pass right it doesn't parse right but if control tells you you parse what you find so I don't think even for Tony's use case which I'm still not convinced of but I it can be made to work even for that use case we don't need an actual dmux point on the first nipple foreign there's a huge Delight from mute sorry"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "um so I guess I I I'm a bit more conservative than Joel is on on this because it there there may be a case when you're for example instrumenting this is the the stack side of the system where you would like an indicator that's not part of the stack um so you try to test whether your sort of Stack parameters work um and I don't have a case I am just trying to make sure that I could build it um if I wanted to because I got tripped up by this once before um a question for Tony what would you do if you in your world if that P router had a um a pseudo wire packet without a control word pass through it and it had the quotes wrong quotes value as the uh as the address such that the first nibble meant something to your router um I'm not sure I understand exactly the use case Stuart um it would seem to me that that interesting case would only occur if it's the exit router um and if it's the wrong nibble then I think the router would be very confused as to what to do um well not necessarily let's just say scroll this a bit so I was interested in the p-router case right because sometimes it would appear that we that some people would like to do stuff in the middle of the of the path so you're an innocent p-router and someone is sending pseudoir traffic through you well so someone is sending um M A information through you and you're handling that just fine you've been taught about that and then someone sends you a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:05",
    "text": "um a pseudo or out wire packet without a control word so it looks like an mpls label stack which will try to skip checking remember and mpls label stack and the first nibble is whatever the first nibble of the ethernet address was so [Music] um and if that aliases the the first nibble that you're using to trigger functionality what happens again I don't understand the use case um if you're doing M A with only PSD then I would hope that the p-router doesn't even have to look at it so I don't think that it's relevant right okay well we can make it we can Define it to be irrelevant by by to be not relevant by defining out of scope a the the case where a p router um looks at the um the post stack data we can say that that is not an allowed case that that would resolve the issue in that no P router would ever be looking for um M A information below the bottom of Stack but once you uh get to the edge node why wouldn't you you have a service label there normally you'd have a service label and once you've got the service label you've got all the contacts you need in anyway and if we want to use m a foreign then we have to have ISD sorry I didn't understand that one so again so if you wanted to encode m a PSD yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "then you're again arguing that we have to have ISD I'm arguing you have to have something in the stack to tell you how you um handle this packet and I was trying to avoid using that bandwidth so having a code point would tell us what was in the packet not necessarily the same route that slows in the same age router was also doing uh sudowires if he's not getting any stag information any stack information to help it out and it was well I suppose it would have the student one tell it what to do so you you'll try to make a special case for this of the basis that everyone else needs a service label I'm trying to have a code point so that we don't have to have service labels all over the place um I need to think through whether this weather weather you're going to be the unique exception with this in the entire sort of internet or whether um we really do need service labels as part of the mpls model I'm trying to walk away from heuristics and have any defined code point um with a service label the lower your next in the queue so much SRX is sympathize with what the phone is saying it would be neat though it actually means that they have to deprecate uh the internet to do I without control"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "word and we've been over that and actually we couldn't do it at that time so I don't think that's the way forward Joel thank you I think Stuart was getting at what I was thinking of because I've been trying to understand what Tony is assuming and I finally realized that he was assuming a combination of things namely that there was control information to tell you you will sometimes receive post-stack data without a label step without any indication in the label stack and the way you will tell that this particular packet falls into that control is by looking at that first nibble given the first nibbles are not reliable and just waving our hands and pretending they are won't work I can't make that work whereas if it's either a service label or an overloaded uh pseudo wire label or an overloaded or a multi-valued end label so you do use different n values to indicate different behaviors then you don't care what the uh nibble is because you have other ways to tell what you're supposed to be doing and I think that's actually far more robust okay all right um I'm uh I'm it's my turn now so my my comment is I could signal with the service label uh uh please look into the nibble to find out what to do with it so basically only when I when you get"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "the service label X and you're allowed to look at the first nibble uh so that could eliminate the the concern about a uh an Ethernet packet coming in uh and we peaking at the nibble uh all the time so that was one uh point I wanted to raise thank you and I'll pass it on to Jimmy oh can you hear me now yes okay so my understanding is we have clear specification about the egress node to I use the service label or some other context label to together with the first enable to determine the context on the content of the following data well we don't but we so far we do have uh any specification about how the transit knows to use the first Naval to determine the content of the payload on the other data so do we need one about that and for that how before that we cannot maybe make the decision about how the transit node to use the first legal or whether we still rely on the something in the label stat s so it was good to answer these um question um the the only way I can think that would work reliably for a p router to know that there was a postdoc data would be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "that there was an m a label and that context was provided through the m a label I don't think anything else would be uh would be safe at all in terms of our previous effort of deprecating ethernet pseudo wires without the control word the group of vendors that found it most difficult and objected were vendors who were in the transport Network business not the transport layer but the transport Network and they were in they were in the the the business of using mpls to provide the transport Network and their equipment was incredibly primitive really really simple tiny number of functions not a full-blown router at all um and they did not have at the time uh so it was communicated to us the capability of doing anything cleverer than what they were already doing so um and I and the thing about transport networks is that they can be in place for a very long time um as speeds go up the equipment tends to be moved to other duties so I honestly don't know when we're going to get get rid of the um ethernet pseudoirs without control words and back to the back to the chair yep uh we don't have anyone in the queue uh let me just join in and say yeah okay so we discussed two mechanisms one for uh P router and one for PE router or potentially to potentially to one for p"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "and uh one for PE for finding what's in PSD uh for m e um do we need to unify maybe they don't need to be unified mechanisms for a p router to deterministically know uh could be different from the PE thanks and stay with you next time I'm just wondering whether the Right Way Forward here because I don't think we're going to get an agreement on this call and an agreement on this call would have to be followed up on the list anyway I'm wondering whether we should craft a set of questions for the mpls list to see um what people sort of preference for these three solutions would be with some text of course um explaining what we've learned on this call today about the nuances of the various approaches okay uh Joel you're next Tarak Tarak while I understand why you made the suggestion you did having two different methods for representing the presence of post-doc data seems an invitation to trouble we hope we can avoid doing that thank you okay uh I don't see any further hands in the queue or anybody in trying to get into the queue I could go back to the agenda I've the suggestion Stuart is a valid suggestion we can take it back to uh to the chairs meeting and discuss it so that's a sound suggestion um okay I'll move on to the next topic then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "um so last time we asked if there were use cases uh wait wait wait wait I yes Lord I didn't catch what you said about Stewart's proposal did we make a commitment to discuss it among the shares or what that's what I didn't commit to making it but I said we will discuss it in the chairs meeting okay thanks we we we should discuss it but whether with a question is asked on the list as chairs or whether it's asked us an individual contributor he's also for discussion about that meeting it's our business to do that or not but I do think the question should be put to the list um so that we can get wider input that's right so we will discuss that proposal okay uh so today we have uh we have a use case that Rakesh had presented in the past but we will bring It Forward again um it's uh it makes use of PSD so I'll uh share his slides in 10 seconds I'll have to switch slides so give me a moment okay uh Rakesh your uh your is on to you I'll give you control yeah go ahead um is it am I able to oh I lost I lost the slides uh what is it uh I was trying to give you control then I gave full control uh how about now do you see them yeah I see them um okay you should be able to flip between slides as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "but let me know if it doesn't work yeah I don't see how to uh maybe that's okay okay because I had requested um maybe I can switch it now can you try again please Rakesh you requested something you said yeah I requested us to share slides so I I'm asking okay how about now yeah perfect yeah it works now perfect thank you hello so uh good morning good evening everyone my name is Rakesh Gandhi um so this is um one use case uh the nc2 OEM and the the I think the chairs were looking for some um uh use cases uh uh that can the PSD can benefit so um iom definitely is one but um I I took a step back a little bit and um um even go go to the basics and say that um we're trying to do a Telemetry you have controller you have collectors um you're collecting uh some data from the network uh to do kind of analytics and whatnot and this has this is where you you will see a lot of this um in situ om uh coming into the picture so um so just to step back a little bit and uh and look at the Telemetry aspects uh I have just a few slides and then maybe we have some discussion around this topic uh so this this is what uh chairs looking for ISD PSD what are the use"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "cases how can you do it uh Pros cons and whatnot and I thought maybe uh going back to the Telemetry might give some more context [Music] so uh as I was saying uh we have a network we have a collector and controller and uh the the goal is to collect the data off a specific traffic flow or flows in the network one simple idea that's proposed in the in one drop song um is that it's a flag based option right so you have instack uh M A and you just have a flag and the flag is set it took us on the Node to say that trigger the telemetry now it's a local policy on what data to be sent to the collector uh it could be the incoming interface outgoing interface incoming timestamp uh the node queue information whatever is provision but but the the packet is lightweight because only carrying a flag um it doesn't blow to your stack it's just a basic M A so this is one one use case the the the way this works is that all the nodes that that process this m a will generate the Telemetry data and send it so it's up to the collector to reconcile the data because it comes for a specific flow from different nodes in the network and it has to put the whole you know flow together and and do whatever analytics that's doing uh so this is this is one uh Solution One One Drop that talks about uh this way of doing stuff uh and because just a flag it makes sense to just put it in ISD"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:04",
    "text": "um I see Greg in line I I don't know if he if I go through all the cases and then we discuss or we can go each one individually I'm fine either way I only have four slab four to four uh cases I can hold that thought thank you so uh just a flag base option the second one uh that's proposed in draft CX for m a is again in stack option it's a little bit more more information than the previous option in this case it's an alternate marking so you have two flags one is flag for the delay one for latency and you have flow identifiers it makes a controllers life easier because you have a flow so if you want to reconcile the data it's coming from all the P nodes or P nodes in the network for a flow you have flow ID so you make the controller life easier again what data to be exported via Telemetry uh it could be based on local policy and again it's a simple put it in ISD things don't change it's quite static um and this is this is one proposal and now we go into the the some of the work that ippm um or working group has done uh defining there are two rfcs for it uh um RFC 9326 contains the direct export uh tlv kind of information and it's carried in the packet uh it has more more things than the previous two uh options so you you obviously they have defined flow ID but there are there are basic Fields And Then There are optional fields that you can put on top of it again this is also uh uh you do direct export if you're doing Hub by hop I mean you can do end-to-end as well but let's say if you're doing hop by hop"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "then all nodes will will send this Telemetry information to the collector uh one good thing about this this direct export is that uh what information is sent is maybe it's based on local policy but it also has a set of flags so it says that send this send this and that send that so it kind of gives a guidance to the node to send this kind of information because that's the use case and that's what I'm looking for and uh I need queue that for example from all of you guys so it's it makes it more um explicit as a request and then obviously everybody will send it but the the uh the cons is that you you're carrying information in the packet so the iom has defined this is an example I copied from the RFC 9326 as it has IM has a namespace uh Flags these are the flags that I was talking about and then various flow ID sequence number there is a new drug to do extensions to say also let's carry the time stamp as well and it can grow uh so you had two kind of two lses as mandatory the first two and then you have optional which can grow [Applause] [Music] so that's basically uh the ioam way of doing the Telemetry using direct export again it's done by each each node as I saw in this figure and The Collector reconciles information and the fourth and the last option uh in the Telemetry and again there might be some other options um this is not the exhaustive uh at least but these are some of the drafts that we have in m a and there might be more drops but in this particular option uh idea is that the information is collected uh in the fixed header from uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "on each node and it goes to the egress PE so there is no need to do Telemetry from HP node uh they just kind of stamp the packet with whatever information is needed um could be timestamp as requested or it could be interface ID or whatever that might be will digest it or do Telemetry uh and and done with it so it's this is a different uh uh option it's a recording option where um P nodes no need to do Telemetry The Collector doesn't need to reconcile all that information because uh it's all the PE node egress PE node would have everything that you need so the way uh iom RFC 9197 they have defined again the the option type just like direct export so you have namespace and Trace type and whatnot and say this is a pre-allocated so pre-allocated means you have fixed buffer in the scratch pad in the packet itself that everybody writes and incremental means that everybody will add that information happen to it um so if it's a 10 half then you will see that 10 nodes and then in each hop on the right side you will see a node ID or interface ID timestamp all kinds of stuff and there are a whole bunch of Trace types defined and depending on what gets enabled you allocate that much of space and you build one so again you can see that with so many options and stuff you could end up depending on how many hops the packet takes you can end up with large amount of data that that's carried in the packet I mean it's this one looks I mean more like PSD solution so those are the four things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "ICS Telemetry some of these Solutions I mean we have drafts for them um some things to consider is that the amount of telemetry data that needs to be processed based on how many is it coming from your entire network all the PNP nodes or only some PE nodes and um what is the size of lse if you put everything in the stack uh can the end cap node put that big into the labor stack or or how does how do you implement it um I think that option one and two seems like uh ISD options for Telemetry option three and four if you're going to have a large amount of data that can grow it's variable maybe it's for PSD so this is just the the suggestions and now going back to the questions that those days um any any use case motivating PSD so for example hubby hop recording uh probably a good option for for PSD it's very I don't know if it's ISD you can do it amount of data is large and you're changing the labor stack with timestamp and whatnot along the way um because amount of data is large I don't know uh um it's really is the use case um is it urgent or I say it's it's a it's a one a good solution for it if you're going to work on it that's a one a good solution uh impact on compatibility issue I think the first nibble is is really the or the PSD it would be a issue related to the compatibility uh and that's all I had on this topic the rest is just going into the the protocol extensions and stuff about iom but it's already in the draft it was presented before so unless there is a specific question we don't need to go"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "through the rest of the slides thank you okay thank you Rakesh Greg has been waiting in the queue and go ahead now Greg so if we can rewind to let's say use case one yeah so um I I'm not sure how this envisioned to be applied but uh it has some similarity uh with one flag alternate marking method uh in fact alternate marketing method uh can use either one uh beat flag or uh two bids um the two-bit uh provides more accurate latency measurement but effectively even one bit can provide good packet to us and Alternate marking method furthermore there have been uh documented how to use one bit for uh sufficiently accurate delay measurement yes uh local policy can Define what uh additional operational State information to be collected um but in mpls when we first discussed alternate marking method it was decided to use um what's called synonymous flow label and uh that already as I understand these documents are progressing so why not to take a look and see uh whether this known technology can be used without any additional load on a label stack um further but I would point is that yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:03",
    "text": "direct sending operational State and Telemetry information to a collector from each node is one option um there is a proposal in ittm working group it's called hybrid two-step which explains how a packet that carries operational State and Telemetry information can be carried along the same path as a trigger packet and then arrive to the uh uh terminating node so that's all the information is collected and that simplifies the correlation by The Collector so that alternative option of collecting out of band Telemetry information because as I noted in our previous meeting um Telemetry and operational State information are valuable but uh putting them in band with data uh is um prohibitive for that net because the debt net uh Paradigm is that resources allocated so that um OEM does not disturb in a normal condition uh the data traffic because the uh the purpose of that net is um minimizing um packet loss providing uh bounded packet uh reordering and uh very low uh latency and Jitter"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "per package so obvious it seems that uh loading in a data plane Telemetry information operational State information uh will uh definitely change the economics for the debt net because these resources will have to be guaranteed in reserve so uh in that sense uh separating uh generation generating Telemetry information and its collection using the management plane out of band for collection seems to be a more viable at least for that net um so actually my note about the way how um information can be collected from transit nodes so it's applicable to all the scenarios here but what I really don't understand is why um cases three and four are put together and positioned as same solution because in my opinion advantage of direct expert I am is that it's a limited impact so uh their uh additional addition uh to uh the stack is limited while provides the flexibility and uh richness of operational State and Telemetry information with opportunity of uh centralized or at least from their orchestrator to Define what type of information to be collected so it you're right really pointed out that uh the type of information in uh two models is more local policy but with the IAM"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "already defining uh its Flags so it could be um done from the orchestrator so which uh needs to be a a better model uh less chance for human error misconfiguration but uh there are another benefit of direct expert as you point out is that this information is collected out of band and whether it's no each node sends it directly to the collector or some other method as I mentioned the hybrid two-step is used to collect along the path out of band and then so that's simplifying correlation of telemetry for a given flow that's orthogonal issue but I see that uh direct expert IAM is suitable for instac m a thank you thanks Greg Tony you're next Tony uh you are muted go ahead and unmute yourself [Music] no it's not working hello yeah I can hear it thank you sorry about that meet Echo seems recalcitrant to let me unmute um first off I didn't see any citation to Greg's iom Dex draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "um that seems like an egregious emission as you seem to be trying to do a literature survey here and how you miss that I don't understand um the key point I think that you're trying to make here is that there is a use case for PSD because of hot by hop recording and I would have to take issue with that um hop by hop recording is not a practical way of moving forward it causes the packet to grow every single hop and all practical networks have a finite MTU at some point so you're guaranteed to fail at some point uh so you know I don't think that that's a very good argument Loa so Ruckus can you give two I think it was slide nine uh yes I think it was this one so on the right hand side of the picture this is what every node actually adds to the pre-allocated space is that right so iom defines two options so one is pre-allocated and another one is incremental Trace option when pre-allocated the encap node has um puts the scratch pad in the packet so this way the packet doesn't grow as it travels the path uh in case of incremental option that's defined each node will append its data so packet would grow so these are the two options that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "defined so understood so staying with the pre-allocated so you say that there are the four uh times 32 bits added by each node is that right so this is a one example of a data list there are many different encodings and it's based on the flags so um it could only be for example hop limit node ID interface ID and egress interface ID only two lse could be three it could be four or different combination of it this Q length and stops and is is based on um there is a bit flag that defines uh what is what OEM data to be collected or carried so what what I was kind of going to say is that if we have a case where you need to add four LLCs for each node on the path then even if you do pre-allocated you can't put it in stack it actually grows too big anyway so you can't have it we discussed it in some other context and I thought I heard that 5 lse is what we can can live with in stack and we can't go more go more than that so this is already here in autoscope um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "the thing that is the argument that the packet grows is not correct if you do pre-allocated that's right isn't it again I missed that uh lower if what I'm saying is that if you do pre-allocated then the packet will stay the same size across the network right right yeah absolutely yeah yeah okay fine yeah um uh had something more but I've forgotten it okay thanks and that's also the option that IPv6 is going ahead with um uh so they in I mentioned last time that IPv6 would be supporting a pre-allocated the trace option and they would not be supporting incremental Tres option okay uh it's my turn now Rakesh can you please go back to the slide where we showing the the nodes exporting data metadata to The Collector I think it the uh this right this would work this would work so um this is closest to direct exports export method what you're trying to show here is you enable the flow enables the and the Telemetry uh using some some mechanism in stack and and uh the OEM data gets streamed in Telemetry to The Collector um one advantage I mean the the other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "the in-band collection of uh of OEM data uh does not require uh at least all P nodes and possibly the PE node the Ingress node it doesn't require the Ingress and all P nodes to export or streamed Elementary um or even contact the collector in that case only the egress is doing that correct so the egress will be exporting the the data there depending on the scope so if the scope is defined for m a as hubby hop then each hop will process M A and then if they support the Telemetry action they would export it no I meant it's recorded hop by hop in band but then the packet uh you know reaches the egress so I'm talking about in band uh OEM not direct export yeah yeah then yeah then right so in that case um Everybody records in band and then only the PE node would uh take care of exactly so that's an advantage I see that some nodes might you know some fee notes if you have a large Network um you know over the direct Expo export method is they don't need to uh export this Telemetry data thank you okay Tony you're next in the queue so I disagree with what lawa had to say about uh pre-allocated somehow fixing the problem it doesn't uh pre-allocating a kilobyte of data and sticking it on the front of the packet does not change the MTU problem one bit it only changes where the packet gets dropped so you know pre-allocating tons of space is not a good solution"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:04",
    "text": "lower that would be true if that's what I said but I I just commented on the difference between um incremental and pre-allocated and I said that pre-allocated does not make the packet grow then you have to make sure that you actually pre-allocate a reasonable amount of the data for the Post stack and looking at the picture here if we are given to add four times 32 bits per node that number is rather low thanks Tony if I can answer your question please before he asks yeah so yeah so um there is um I know of a solution which has three each node has three bytes of data and allocates 48 bytes into the into the scratch pad and it supports 13 hops so with 48 bytes three bytes per half plus them now the the header the the top header uh you you get it for 48 bytes thanks it's not enough 13 hops is not enough what's the diameter of the internet so I gave an example of the numbers um but there is no it's you you okay if you know the part of the packet you can configure it however it to be but but it's not 1K uh we're talking about for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "13 halves 48 bytes I mean you can do the math right I can do the math and math says that putting this in the packet doesn't make a lot of sense when we could just be doing postcards were you you're in the queue hello can you hear me yep hello oh okay I can hear you yeah I think yeah the for the pre-allocate mode of the iom that it indeed increase the pesticides but I think any um protocol that changed the packet size will face a similar MTU problem about concern even for the MPS you add this new MPS label stand to the package it also increase attack size so I think it's a totally depend on the application the when the Ingress node decide to allocate some space for data connection it must take 16 into consideration if if it can actually fade in package without causing the NTU problem then this similar issue is faced by any place this iom is applied so there's this not unique to mpis and uh in in many use cases I think the user um depending on the scale the length of the LSP and depending on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "um what kind of data the user really really want to connect the size is that I think it's under control it's not not a lot of it so in this case mode can be applied thank you okay stay with them so I think Tony with respect the either using the internet the diameter of the internet as a as an example here is um what's well known is not actually relevant because mpls is usually deployed in a limited domain and normally you would know the size of the LSP or the expected length of the LSP I would imagine any sensible protocol would have a mechanism for dealing with the case of when the predicted size was exceeded that it took a defined action dropped the packet stop recording it and make a note or something else but I don't think we can use the diameter of the internet as a as an example here like Greg you're next Okay so um one point on um comparing usefulness of writing data in a packet uh in a trigger packet and uh collecting information out of band as I think that we discussed so separating uh uh processing the data packet of with uh writing into it allows for more accurate uh latency measurement because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:02",
    "text": "um it suggested to point out that accuracy improves uh if um a wall clock value is read at the same moment the problem with their storing the timestamp in a trigger packet in a trigger data packet is that uh packet needs to be processed after uh their value is red so that's uh there is some uh queuing delay uh which adds on uh Jitter and uh effects there accuracy of the measurement so that's another um argument for uh doing the collection of information out of band separate uh from uh the packet um at the same time again um what IPv6 agreed to do uh with encoding of IAM does not in my opinion means that they realize uh their impact on extension headers that might be uh coming uh with the pre-located Trace option in IAM so uh they might be for a big surprise uh will be interesting to see how they how operators how IPv6 Opera how Network operators will react uh to these packets coming their way thank you okay thank you so let's see several points um first off the application that I work on is called the internet and we have an MTU because people actually want to send data and most of the time they want to send a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "lot of data and most of the time they want to use the MTU that means that they want to send you know Max MTU packets a lot of the time and we don't have good protocols for figuring out what the MTU is and the world kind of breaks badly when the MTU changes so for us to suddenly slap on lots of extra bites is not a good thing we're taking it out of customer payload okay this is going to cause major problems not a good thing second of all the diameter of the internet is very much a function of the diameter of our service providers and as the cut of all the vendors on here will gladly attest there are many of our tier one customers who have a diameter of their Network which is a significant chunk of the diameter of the Internet it's traversing entire large networks using mpls and they're getting many many many hops okay 13 hops is not enough to Transit some of the networks that I know about and I'm sure you do too so pre-allocating a whole lot of data is really really not a great idea I acknowledge Tony's uh Tony's rebuttal at my point I am yes you're right um about both and and of course it is the customer that owns the MTU rather than the well obviously the service provider owns it but the the the assembly provider needs to provide the customer with the biggest MTU they can because they want to send real data and fewer packets so yeah I largely agree with you Tony Rakesh yeah so um basically uh idea is that when we talk"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "about the overhead it was a three bytes uh um per node so I mean if you have 25 nodes then you do 25 times I mean 3 75 plus you add you know four eight more bytes of the header so that that's the math uh it's definitely not huge but again uh you you had to the service provider owns the network and has an idea about um what's really happening and there are other mechanisms if you are you have limitations you will stop recording it or you do recycle the packet I mean the recycle the scratch pad and you overwrite it so there are other means of it as well and just to uh I just wanted to step back a little bit about the first three use cases about they are related to sending the Telemetry data about P node to the controller so the first one is is simple in the sense that it only has a flag and it's up to the uh there are two things that's missing in the first one it's missing the flow information so it makes the collector's job harder and it's it doesn't have information so you had to provision on each node what information to be sent so this is uh that's solved by the number two where you put the flow ID and now it makes a collector's job easier but still has to process information from all the nodes now if we say that I don't want to provision all the nodes then there might be a way to say a differently we don't have to use ioam option uh all the trace name space and flags and extensions and all of these things I mean you could Define a bit of flags in the m a itself to say that I want to and I think there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:02",
    "text": "are only a handful of stuff that you really care about interface ID time stamp or node ID or whatever profile things so you don't need to go to this extent of using the whole ioam direct export with so many lses and this and that you could just Define and say that I'm I'm not going to provision every single P node in my network but my packet will have a bit flag in the m a that will say just export this this piece of information so just just looking at the problem um see what is it that we need for Telemetry what are the issues and then solving it uh in a more efficient way is probably uh could be a good way to make progress thanks thanks Rakesh I just want to give a heads up that we're uh we still have 30 minutes for the meeting we're one hour and a half through yeah so I'll make if we want to discuss the last items on the agenda we can go quicker on this discussion but it's a very good discussion we're having now so I hate to stop it uh Greg you're next um it's not clear um what information is collected in this uh three wide or trends no I would guess that it does not include uh any um latency related information because uh literally the timestamp is I remember uh it takes um four long words uh so it's clearly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "far beyond the bound uh but again I'm not questioning that in some environments uh uh where uh bandwidth is plentiful and it's a feasible to put any amount of telemetry information in a data pack but I don't see the good reason to do it everywhere so if somebody wants to do it it's their Network yes certainly on a point of uh challenge to correlate information I already mentioned uh that there is a proposal in ippm working group on hybrid two-step mechanism protocol that allows collection of state and Telemetry information generated by the data packet and then transporting it as a train of packets sequence of packets uh to the end node so that's um lifting this problem from The Collector no um so if there is interest uh I can prepare some presentation for the future meeting on what hybrid two-step is and call it uh envisioned to operate thank you okay I think I'm going to be quick it's a suggestion to the uh to recession the office of iuem in band did you for a large number of hop LSPs did you consider breaking down the uh the scope of testing uh or recording the segments of the path basically if you're traversing 20 hops"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "break it down to 10 and then export the the the metadata or the collected data and then record the next 10. uh you know just an idea and I'm not sure if that was considered uh yeah yeah I can come yeah yeah yeah so yeah it is it is considered and it's definitely a good way to solve the problem thanks okay thanks all right um I do want to go back so I I don't see anybody else in the queue and we can go back safely to the agenda but your sharing so I'll take back uh the control can you stop sharing on your site Rakesh find how to do it yeah yeah I'm also finding it difficult I took care no problem Okay so we still have two items but we don't have too much time I think item six was a uh a call for further input on the PSD discussion we've been having this discussion all along uh but let's see uh do you want to add anything to this lower now item number six is just an announcement or request that we need to have more of these types and discussions so people that have things that they want to discuss and combine with answering the questions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "should do so and request slots for the iitm meetings when they are ready to go thanks okay all right I will lower your hand and the last item or actually before the last seven still what you've asked to talk about that email it's your chance now okay so um it was really a simple and possibly naive question um I was just we we were talking about putting information in the stack ISD and we may need to write that information for example no further fast read which is a good example I was just making sure in my mind that um we could actually write into the stack and the the reason for uh in other words overwrite into the stack the reason for asking is to make sure that the stack is actually a read write cache rather than just a read cache because I could see some implementations might implement the mpls stack as a as essentially a read cache because most of the time you never need to look at anything other than the top other than the label after the ones that you've popped so I'm just making sure that we're not going to fall foul of implementations that can't actually write ISD into the stack um in pre-arranged places okay uh I guess Tony you go you can go Stuart I'm sorry we're always going to follow a foul of implementations that do unfortunate things this is just the fact of life we don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:02",
    "text": "control what people are going to do and they don't know about the future so um the way that ISD draft is written it's pretty careful we try not to make anything that is basically in the first label of the lse none of that is writable because there are going to be implementations that are going to Hash that for entropy purposes so we want to avoid writing there the remainder of the lse is writable and there's no question about that and if an implementation wants to support M A and wants to support a function that actually wants to write in ISD then it needs to figure out how to do that I was just trying to understand what the world looked like and whether the majority could do this or whether there was a any significant minority That Couldn't or indeed any minority that was going to object so I was just trying to understand what the LIE of the land was I don't know what the scope of what implementations can or can't do in terms of writing overwriting labels that are in the stack but not at the top okay in the last words you said uh maybe uh we'll negate what I say or maybe not so I'm aware about an application in segment routing where the packet comes in with the top label um maybe it's a binding label mining Sid and then it expands the the label stack grows for example they replace one label with with several uh but that's always manipulation of the top label in that case that's what I so you can consider it as a right but um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "they don't worry I think those are well known and likely to to be around and a lot of that of that is all done in terms of pointers to uh to build the packet um so basically um you you have a pointed to the thing that's going to remain you have a pointer to the um stuff you want to add in ETC and you say hey dma engine's just go and get on with this when the packet goes out that is a sort of well-known sort of fundamental characteristic of a number of implementations uh uh but but what we want to do is maybe have Mna not at the top of Stack um and we may wish to um to change a bit and I was really asking the question whether this is widely allowed because uh or whether it is widely denied and the reason for asking is that so far uh anything other than the very top of Stack could be uh read-only cash and I was as I say I was just trying to understand what the state of the world was before we made too many assumptions thanks uh Greg you're next I think that I I have in mind uh one of their uh use case uh for the functionality that Steward is uh inquiring about so imagine uh that um we want to have a bounded latency and uh hmm some budget is provisioned to a system and so that thus uh the transit notes uh will be uh obviously decrementing reflecting uh their uh residence time uh packet being uh in the system so by uh decrementing uh this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:03",
    "text": "budget so that's uh if we run out of time the packet might be dropped all together rather than being you know taking more resources in the network so that's my big completely agree with that I completely agree with that use case uh so my my question was solely to do with are we confident that the hardware Engineers are not going to shout at us I think it's how you've turned yeah it's how are you right now yeah go ahead please well yeah I I yeah I remember I pointed out another uh issue about this writable data um a long time ago we want to support ISD is one reason for that is that it's because uh it's more reachable is closer to the top of a stack um then in case there is uh there are actually the labels deck is a very deep then uh the Ingress node has to put multiple copies of as the in a different place of the label stack in order because at some points this uh will be popped out uh and after that the next hobby uh in the in the label stack can be accessed so if this is uh supported then this is writable um data is really dubious because if it's a written chain modified in the um on the pass then only the top uh SD"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:02",
    "text": "will be can can be modified all the others are not then you will lose the synchronous synchronization between all these copies so that's a big problem you know that's a good point actually um yeah it's a very good point we would need rules for propagation of values and which ones could could be propagated and which ones couldn't um but yes that's also a good uh a good point the synchronization of the data but I was simply dealing with um NFR for example as an example of one where it's very simple right and I'm just making sure we can but it's really a question for our Hardware teams indeed I think there is a homework that can be done here uh how does that translate to our working group Maybe a poll would be an option or next time we meet we can get some feedback but we can discuss the options if you like I I am just sort of it just occurred to me the other day to ask the question and um I'm asking the question and I'm asking the question because it will be really unfortunate if we specified something and then discovered that the major overwhelming majority couldn't do it in which case the functionality will probably die very quickly okay uh one question from me Stewart is we discussed that the actions most actions I know you're given an example of f no further out"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "which is enabled on a on the point of logo repair uh node but we discussed most actions will be set by the Ingress and uh those uh and then besides PS I mean given that we have a discussion of PSD data uh be manipulated manipulated if we need to um so there are handful numbers of use cases that will be impacted right not many yeah yeah well I mean there would be that one that would be the one that Greg came up with which is one that I forgot about but actually has been quite close to the top of my mind with uh some of the 5G latency stuff I've looked at um okay I see yeah so um you know there are a number of uh use cases and we just need to be clear whether um we are um you know um pushing on an open door because all the hardware can do it or whether there's a an elephant sitting in the corner that um hasn't roared yet sorry I was gonna if you remember in the requirements draft uh did we come across a Transit node being able to insert m a label uh this wasn't insert we're talking about insert we were talking about modify okay okay so modifying existing okay yeah well yeah well you know nfrr is a good is a potential case of modify um and certainly um latency time consumed is an example of modifying so yeah it could be insert though nfrr"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "and fr right it could be an insert of a mini if it wasn't there as well if there was no mni if there was no MMA right did we negate the inserting having multiple M A's in the stack I don't I'm just making sure that we know you know that we we are we either rule out this as not needed and forever live without it or that uh we're absolutely happy that it that the that it's viable and we carry on with it okay okay got it okay well um I think yeah maybe it would it would it would be useful I think if those people who still have attachment will have attachment to Hardware teams were to ask their Hardware teams whether um these sorts of things are feasible or whether they are I.E to modify a field within the label stack not at the top of the label stack uh whether those things are feasible or whether they are a showstopper for their design okay uh yeah I will record that as an action item at the moment Stuart yeah definitely revisit that um you go ahead if uh we still have five minutes so yeah go ahead yeah um hey um let's say about actually uh this is regarding your previous question so uh are you asking that um Can the hardware change any of the existing uh information in the labels stack Stuart do you want to answer the I'm meeting myself again so yes what I'm saying is that some supposing we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "have an m a um in stack data system are we able to modify a value within that data block um should that be necessary or does the hardware uh with the hardware find that very difficult and it's all to do with the caching Behavior related to how the stack is handled okay because you know today in SRV six cases right so we update the SRH headers um so we we update uh on the fly right so isn't it the same thing with respect to the general Hardware uh perspective um well you do for IPv6 but I don't think you do for it I think you modify anything PLS do you it's push and pop only uh that's right like I'm saying that you know like as a general Hardware uh capability right so we do that uh for a service six uh just changing the uh some of the uh information in the stack yes um absolutely and um we probably can do it but it would be well to find out whether there's anything special about NPR I mean particularly uh you know the sort of routers that would find this hard are highly optimized service provider um you know cell phone Edge sort of things which are built to a budget and um can't really do very much and yet might need this instrumentation and it's all a question of how fundamental this change would be for for such routers I don't know maybe I am just worrying about nothing but better to worry about it than have a surprise later okay yeah thanks but it's the cheap routers that that I'm worried about I know the expensive ones can do it okay uh I will record the action item as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:01",
    "text": "I'm oh I think he only wants to respond yeah yeah we'll give him a chance uh I think it's uh last two minutes now go ahead Tony okay we're not hearing you if you're hearing us hello can you hear me now yes we need to file a bug with meat Echo um so the cheap routers are not the problem uh they are system on chip they're basically a CPU dealing with memory they have full right access to the packet that's never the issue uh it is the hardware optimized routers that are the question yeah okay and I can't speak to current Hardware but at least 20 years ago uh this was not a significant issue okay was he was he Audible for everyone or just me yeah yeah Tony would say it was saying that um it's not a problem for the cheap routers because they are essentially conventional uh rewrite systems and um the issue is Hardware optimized routers and he his recollection of 20 years ago is that this wasn't a problem um I still sort of pose the question as to whether anyone has sort of taken any functionality away and not told us and maybe I'm worrying over nothing maybe this is you know a it's really just a Coffee corner discussion with the hardware teams just to make sure that they aren't going to go and freak out when they hear that this might have to be done and I can't do that myself okay no I I think we we talked about the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:03",
    "text": "call of action kind of for everyone who has access to Hardware you know to get some feedback uh now how does that materialize either next time we meet we get the feedback or I think someone the options are a Paul or maybe someone will reply to your email I guess Stewart um I want to say that we're running out of time and we're actually out of time and uh Noah last chance no I was just going to tell you that we were out of time so we need meet that girl closes down within I think five minutes so we need to finish up now yeah yeah I am planning to close it so thanks again everyone who joined for next time uh if someone has any request for slots please do send the requests as early as you can so that we can discuss it in the chairs meeting and decide if a meeting is needed next week that's it okay thank you all right thank you so much see you next week if we meet okay bye bye thank you everyone talk to you soon what"
  }
]
