[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "it was in 1740 like 4200 feet of wine [Music] one time I see - retired I mean I would Dan but like like you stop that you look tired yes [Music] [Music] so we\u0027re gonna just start in one minute I have a slight update on you to get into the data tracker and then we can kick it off [Music] [Music] [Music] okay sorry all right we are gonna get started so welcome this is sec dispatch folks will be trickling in my name is roman janae do i co-chair with Richard Barnes that unfortunately couldn\u0027t be with us here today this is the note well this is hopefully not the first time that you have heard this it applies if you have any questions kind of by all means don\u0027t be afraid to ask so administrative Lea can I have a volunteer for a jabber scribe and a newt taker jabber scribe thank you and can I have the volunteer for a new taker "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:12",
    "text": "desperately need a volunteer for a note-taker we cannot proceed without a note-taker god oh thanks Mona we appreciate it all right so just to level set if you\u0027re new to the dispatch process this is intended to help triage security work and give a sense to those with drafts about where they could potentially take that work their key ground rules for the dispatch process is that the outcome of speaking here is a recommendation about what the next step should be we do not adopt any drafts and what possible outcomes are we might recommend hey go talk to this working group we may recommend to spin up another working group we may recommend that the NAD should sponsor this if the ad is of course agree or perhaps the feedback is that this is not an area of work that the ITF should be focused on and so I would ask is we have the presentations I mean two things as you come up to the mic first you know if you have you know if you have a comment or kind of want to discuss something by all means do that but ultimately for all of the five topics we have today we want to get to point where we\u0027re giving recommendations to those presenting so in addition to kind of comments if you want to share your thoughts on where we should take that work that would be greatly appreciated we have a we have five things that were requested to put on the agenda and here they are would anyone like to bash this agenda I see no no comments on that so why don\u0027t we proceed with that so first up is Demetri is going to talk to us about certificate certificate limitation policies and it\u0027s a little tight if you could just stand on okay hi I\u0027m David Lipsky I will I will tell you about my proposal named the certificate limitation profile which is application level amendment to current trust model well just a brief description of current US model Oh Kevin pick a trust model we have set of trusted C\u0027s we have two mechanisms of revocation or even four of chicken certificate status cereal and CSP and anyway we have say Drive and revocation Google versus Symantec demonstrated us that say driven "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:14",
    "text": "revocation is not enough at least in case when we have big sales and I think everybody can imagine what happens if we find that let\u0027s encrypt misbehaves so anyway we need the possibility to protect from misbehavior of big C\u0027s which is better than just remove the root from the grass roots for now application can do the following things application can specify a specific set of trusted roots application can ensure serial or a CSP validation and those should decide what are they to do if the OCSP server is unavailable and if we need to provide some limitations we have to hard code it I propose the solution names LP which is a list of certificates with a specified limitation the list itself is distributed with or by the specific application I think it can have Sara likes syntax it should be crypto signed and so applications that rely on CLP can use a share code instead of hard-coding which caused extra errors in case of bad implementations here is the proposal initial list of limitation it\u0027s rather simple we can we can limit the time from when we stopped trusting the maximum time officiants by by this so let\u0027s say we can limit value see max validity for example if the original certificates was expected to be valid for two years we can limit it for just one year we can say that we should ignore or I suppose are required this or that all nine extensions oh we should we can specify a name constraints and I think this is one of the most significant purpose of limitation because it can ensure that national see is controlled "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:17",
    "text": "by government or sometimes should be limited in issuing certificates in the cctlds but not for say dot-com we also can require native checking so the certificates should be must be checked against the see provide the serial OSI providers SP and we can forbid the intermediate certificates for this or that subset which we think compromised but limited compromised limitation themselves can be applied either for the certificate or for the certificates and it descendants the process of verification I think should include insurance that the SLP is sent by a certificate with a separate TK usage we should check that we use a COP from by the source and well if we have a local cell P I don\u0027t think that it makes sense to allow unsigned selfies it should be configured the application the application that you sell P should make minimal checks that Co P is in used by the configuration that sale P is not older than this or that date and that it\u0027s correctly signed when we verify the certificates using cell P there are many more changes to the current process we anyway should build a chain of trust we process the chain of trust but at each step we check whether limitations are applied and behave according to the limitations as I said though anyway we have a way of dealing with limitations at least in Chrome and Mozilla I know that there were some similar ideas of managing not binary model of limitation in P 11 glue project and I think there are some other project with a similar idea of non-binary limitation thank you so feedback right so you say the list of certificate trust anchors is signed i "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:20",
    "text": "signed by whom here this one yeah sign by which trusting her if we\u0027re handing out a list of trust anchor which which trust anchor signs so there is one that is hard coded the otherwise can never you can have a verify the you list well you can just hard code the java key but not all the checks so this is your interesting to hear god it seems like there\u0027s perhaps a few different things in here that we might want to talk about differently so one would be a data model in terms of sorry I\u0027m Ben kata so the first thing would be a data model for thinking about what sorts of non-binary limitations you want to put on a certificate interesting this is through your date of issuance checks or you\u0027re literally time period check that defers from that\u0027s this different from what was actually issued so that this sort of which attributes might I check that\u0027s one one thing and then you have this container for describing them as a specific data format which is very related but perhaps slightly different and then there\u0027s this whole question of signing and de streeting these things so that you know they could be used by different applications or conveyed across the network in some fashion and your there\u0027s potential value I see and having the data model about what sorts of things make sense to restrict the certificates in and I\u0027m not entirely sure what the use case would be or you know like who would actually use the the signing and the distribution model part of it and you know maybe there are people that would use it I just don\u0027t have a good sense of who that would be well if I correctly this to be your questions when we have limitations set applied by major browsers for example it\u0027s reasonable to apply the same limitations to the other applications we have it\u0027s I respond to your last question the browser vendors would provide their policy in this format as a service to the world so that the other applications could consume the same policy in this automated way well "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:22",
    "text": "and the second and the one more questions I definitely got the from your set of questions is a model of distribution I think that it is as mostly I expect the source of selfies browsers I think that new versions of cell peace can be deliberate with browsers update or just downloaded from browser sites sometimes we maintain a similar sort of system but it\u0027s much more limited than what you described here it\u0027s much more boolean in that show one of the things that we discovered was that for intermediates CIA certificates it was advantageous to have something like this but having the the leaf nodes revoked in this fashion turns out to be rather inefficient because there\u0027s just a lot of bits it\u0027s a phenomenal number of bits and so device something that will be coming out sometime soon that that compresses them considerably I think you have to think about the size considerations involved here clients that are looking to do this sort of validation probably don\u0027t want to download the entire CT database in order to to make their decisions and so that\u0027s that\u0027s a little challenging the other comment that I got up to say was that the the correct trust anchor is very difficult to identify in this context for us we make the list and we use their own distribution mechanisms to get the the list down to two end points and those end points verify that we have a signature that we we put a lot all that stuff and verified in the end points but talking about a generic system would be would be quite challenging yeah I agree it there suspect that the that the way you would probably operate one of these services is you would have a server that runs for your application that that pulls from various sources all this this this data so maybe for instance Mozilla\u0027s maintaining servers I think they\u0027re publicly so accessible you would pull them the Zillow list sign that for your own application and then push it down to the application yourself the most workable solution I could imagine and when you say correct trust anchor over and I get concerned that CA one could could sign something revoking every every certificate issued by CDA two and then with you oh thank you very much hey good your prints so if I could jump in here I saw the the technical feedback is great also folks have ideas about where to take the work whether we want to take the work and provide any convenient recommendations that\u0027s also "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:23",
    "text": "very helpful to hear out my client well there is no Phyllis plus I\u0027m risking to repeat hood other people have already said it before but my main problem with this approach is that it\u0027s probably creates chicken and egg problem because you are trying to limit trust answers with another just anxious google sign CTL so you are creating an agency that controls what she is current application trust so who will control VC oh okay good idea well I think that at the worst case the application developer can just resign the cell just resigned the selfies with their own K which is hard-coded in the application it\u0027s the worst case and anyway we already have the problem of chicken and egg here because it\u0027s common to all the apk system I don\u0027t think it makes the situation worse thank you so other feedback hi this is Sean Turner I mean this seems like a way to manage trust anchors right so there\u0027s more than one way to do that the browser\u0027s do it the ITF has done protocols that also do that I don\u0027t know that we need another one maybe like what what the browsers do is what the browser\u0027s do other browsers gonna get together and identify a way that they want to all universally do one thing well the browser\u0027s seems to be the most relevant source of what see what public sees behaves official so I just want the experience to be shared among all the community which relies on PK I feel like there\u0027s a lot of things that leverage off the browser\u0027s decisions like I think if you look at a lot of Linux distributions they\u0027re Etsy whatever the directory that has all the CAE roots is basically mirrored from whatever fire whatever Mozilla has done most recently because they trust Mozilla\u0027s policy but of course they can\u0027t make any decisions beyond the binary and out of that see a list so if they think the goal here I agree the goal is to be able to model more finally these browsers decisions people who are mirroring the browser\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:24",
    "text": "policies because they trust the browser manufacturers ok thanks so to summarize everything everything I heard I mean it looks like the feedback is there\u0027s various kind of technical feedback for you and so the best thing in terms of definitely clarifying some of the use cases may be addressing some of that feedback and bringing the conversation not just about all this okay thank you thanks so much okay next up [Music] next up we have a draft about algorithm identifies for HSS and it\u0027s going to be a remote presentation so Daniel if you could get into the media kokyu so I could T you up I think I can just go direct without the queue is that right yeah yeah you\u0027re there so I have your first slide up okay perfect I\u0027m Daniel Langston presenting a draft on adding hash-based signatures to x.509 certificates and Searles I presented this earlier today lamps under Russell\u0027s recommendation just so that if SEC missed dispatch things that should go to lamps everyone there would be aware of it and and I\u0027ve seen it already it\u0027s a fairly straightforward draft just adding some voids and sn1 so if people think I should go there it shouldn\u0027t be too much work I\u0027ve already actually stolen most of the text from someone now I forget who Sean I think from his previous RSC\u0027s so next slide please so this is adding HSS X MSS and XMS SMT these were chosen because they\u0027ve already progressed through CF RG or at least mostly progressed through CF RG and also we\u0027ve had interest in actually deploying them from some of our partners Hashmi signatures as we might know are already well studied and secure against quantum computers these algorithms in particular have small private and public use they\u0027re fast for signing and verification but they have large signatures and they are stateful next slide please so some potential use cases for these signatures an x.509 not such a good idea to use it in end entity cert speak is mandating managing state is heard and if you fail to manage your state correctly you could inadvertently reuse signatures causing an attacker to be able to forge signatures fairly easily as CA certs and interactive protocols "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:26",
    "text": "it\u0027s an okay idea you have an HSM already to manage state the only slight disadvantages that signature size is larger so it\u0027s an okay option if you can live with that larger signature size um the best use case would be for say certain non interactive protocols and code signing certs and this is where we\u0027ve seen the interest for these algorithms you have an HSM to manage state and the signature size is not so much of an issue and in this case these algorithms are ready to deploy now for long live search such as in IOT or automotive next slide so as I said it\u0027s already been through or not through lamps but presented to lamps and there was some a bit of discussion there it seemed like there was some interest but to ask from sec dispatches if we have any comments and if we want to throw this over the wall back to amps thank you and so the finesse on the lamps is it\u0027s a chartering issue to do it in lamps yes yes hey this is Sean Turner thanks for stealing that great text I\u0027ll say what I said in lamps ship at the lamps it\u0027s got the stuff in it that needs to be there to identify the algorithms that that get used ECMs so it looks like it\u0027s almost done actually this is rust the way the lamps Charter is structured we need a commitment to implement in order to charter it so I\u0027d love to know whether there\u0027s anything like that tear as opposed to happy to repeat that same question elsewhere so I think that\u0027s the question then to the room if there\u0027s interesting lamps who would be implementing this I mean we will be implemented and maximality believes we might implement this combining with something else but not right now so it\u0027s gonna take a while thank you anyone else is gonna be implementing this and he would also have ideas of where to take it other than lamps as a matter of process does it need to go anywhere these are Kokomo registrations right and they\u0027re not in it didn\u0027t look like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:27",
    "text": "they\u0027re in an ITF arc so I\u0027m not objecting to handle imps but does it normally have to go anywhere at all well I mean it\u0027s just a publication of voids right so he doesn\u0027t have to go any I mean like doesn\u0027t have the person RFC at all so I\u0027m just like I\u0027m not I\u0027m not getting into the lamps but I\u0027m just wondering what happens if sorry go that\u0027s okay anyway sorry well the process is to hear from the floor so the the options appear to be that we need something to describe the parameters for lamps to take the work they\u0027re given how the Charter is written there needs to be a commitment to we heard at least two yes you know one yes and one probably eventually kind of an implementation I don\u0027t know whether that\u0027s enough to recharter kind of the group and then the alternative beyond that would be a needy sponsored kind of document or screen while they were in the lamps chairs here like what they think if there\u0027s interested in lip in implementing a lamp seems like a completely reasonable place to put it Daniel me know me so well if lamps was an issue I was about to propose that curdled my host at but I\u0027m if lamps is not an issue I think it\u0027s better to go snaps okay so with that I mean I think that\u0027s all the feedback and Novarum overwhelming it looks like lamps is the way to do it if the appropriate limitation interest can be found and it looks like there is some and I would recommend to turn that back to lamps so that\u0027s the feedback Daniel thank you right all right next up is is here we\u0027re talking you\u0027re gonna talk to us about your draft and if you give me a minute so I can just get your updated presentation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:33",
    "text": "[Music] the floor is yours okay thank you so much and I practice talk about draft of the general security consideration for the correct asset custodians so we are not sure this is IPF work definitely not sure so we directly we want to get the feedback from the this sec dispatch but I will briefly talk about the word draft so background is we had like lots of thoughts of security incidents during past like few years about sexy including the loss of the assets and especially in the last eight year is like random dub not a J\u0027s around a hot area which suffered a lot about security incidents which Cohen suffered it which caused a loss of assets and yeah this is where stopped major incident we have we there\u0027s lots of extends past few years and why we here why I am here is like we wanted to build the base document for clipped asset custodians Whittaker which is we call the Bitcoin exchange were sort of things and for the best security security best practices at this moment some organization makes and documents but we don\u0027t have any open documents at this moment right now and the second reason is that we have like a instant happens like quarries or the law enforcement have some investigation investigations but not like the lessons from those instant is not pick up be public so there\u0027s a little bit difficulty with shares and nourish shares resins from that those instance so so the why we here is like we were we were trying to make documents about not we\u0027re not making the regulations because we\u0027re not up though we\u0027re not this is a not this is a ITF is not the price to make the regulations but we can tell like this is how we think to secure the could create asset cassadines and also we can we may tell like it is the kind of guidelines and also that one important thing is like we want to open that document so everyone can use and free everyone can comment and no there is no dependency with like some countries and economics so that\u0027s why that\u0027s a weird proposing document here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:34",
    "text": "so current document structure is like that so we trying to have like a different some architecture of the like online system that equipped us a set custodians and also trying to make some taxonomy of the key management like we have some discussion about like cold war at hot ports that it\u0027s also kind of seeing discussions but there is no solid definition at this moment so in me it may be useful for the define here and we people can use it and there\u0027s another things like security controls or the objectives and and also the security analyst and I resist those are actually coming from the is Otis and 27001 based things but there\u0027s still we have we need to add some information on this so we put some information here and to the our draft as well so this is kind of that the difference model we are trying to discuss on this draft and also like are we talking about Sarki life so excited to like peaky eyes like a like and the secret that\u0027s private key or the public key like the life cycle is slightly differ compared to that care system so we need to think about while we deal with those key management and here\u0027s a discussion but what we want to get information from here so that the first one is ITF is the right price to discuss those issues and if so we want to where the right place and if not is there any price you know is there any prey is a good for good to have such discussions we can we think like I I so can be a one candidate but like at you\u0027re familiar with ISIL process like a document will not be published until the old discussion old process has been done so it\u0027s little bit hearing idea if we can publish the document and during the discussions and second thing is that completed out of idea of Scott but like anti-money laundering zft stuff it\u0027s this I know it\u0027s completely to stop IDF and we we don\u0027t want to have discussion here but we also looking for a feedback so and we\u0027re pressed to we can discuss and so thanks so much and it helped yep Kathleen Moriarty so clarifying question yes are you talking about creating a standard broker like what Commonwealth crypto does I know obviously that\u0027s a proprietary no we are talking about general so the broker would interface between the end-user no in the exchange and and do things like protect the users money ensure that it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:36",
    "text": "still there as you\u0027re transacting so if something happens at the with the cryptocurrency and there\u0027s a theft or whatever you you\u0027re protected in some way so you\u0027re not talking about that no we are just can you explain a little bit more because then I have a gap still okay yes sorry I know these pictures help yeah so we are just like we are just defining what kind of feature the functions is could be required for those to meet builds the crypto currency exchanges and we discussed like that how is it like this is Erica we this is the press that\u0027s this store the public private keys and we may we made this we were discussing this may be a list we need to think about how we need to think about the risk and how do we deal with it and we don\u0027t need we don\u0027t like your questions like out like the brokers and customers API is those things like should be here but we don\u0027t have a discussion we don\u0027t discuss this for this part is that clear yeah I mean correct me if I ever wrong I mean it\u0027s an informational document on operational practices okay thank you yes that\u0027s the informational yes yeah clarifying question are you after oh yeah Lawrence lund blade yeah are you after practice on a online server and service or on a end user device that they might be using to access the servers or server or both we are discussing online service service servers on the online services and not we are just talking about we are not talking about use and user devices thank you script approach could you please a little bit to the slide waves as a question about I saw and or some other installations so actually in I saw in technical committee 307 in study group seven more or less relevant work is going on so just for information that relevant work is already done and technical committee 217 I saw was created to address such issues okay thanks so much for the feedback thank you so a lot of the protocols involved in this that you would like us to discuss and have best common practice for art designed outside the IETF and no one in the IETF actually probably knows these protocols so in that sense I think this is not the right place to discuss it I think it\u0027s here your initiative is really good I really wish you know there\u0027s a standard document that all the exchanges can use "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:37",
    "text": "and like how should I do this so that it don\u0027t lose millions of other people\u0027s money but I honestly don\u0027t think that the IETF is the place for that because we actually don\u0027t know these protocols in fact when you say crypto we think about something completely different I know what you do ok thanks and what\u0027s horrific I had searcher friends I was gonna leave with something that Paul finished with it some a little bit of queasiness unease with crypto a being used to in this sense but I think I can get past that for now so I feel like there is probably some work here to be done there\u0027s probably a useful technical problem to be solved but I think there\u0027s there\u0027s a lot of at least it\u0027s not clear to me right now kind of where the boundary is between technical work that we were doing an organization like this and the policy works goes Louis I though think the dress is helpful and then starting to flush that out I mean maybe it might require a round or two more discussion to really hardened that boundary up that\u0027s a Paul\u0027s point about expertise you know the the IETF as a community is not a fixed thing one of the things that I think I would want to see as a prerequisite to get starting work here is that the community that would be involved in this so perhaps some people currently fulfilling this role in the in the blockchain ecosystem we\u0027re paying attention to this we\u0027re involved we\u0027re contributing and I think that community if you had the active stakeholders involved and I think if you could bring them to the to the conversation I think there\u0027s some expertise in the broader the the more traditional IETF community that could be useful in terms of things like Kathleen was mentioning in terms of the good practices around managing but what I think those traditional crypto assets like like private keys and things like that so I think this probably needs around or two more discussion I think it might be good to have off on this at a few dry you have to kind of show that we\u0027ve got the right community involved thanks so much so Kathleen we\u0027re all ready again so I\u0027m just responding to Paul and that I do think that there could be something very useful here and I don\u0027t think we should shy away from this area of work if you look at what\u0027s going on in in the blockchain world they\u0027re trying to recreate our protocols and in some cases they\u0027re not doing a great job so I think you know if if those are to take hold in some shape or form us having collaboration and expanding work in the space is a smart thing to do okay and Paulo it is just a reply to I guess the last two people sorry like I said I do think there is value I\u0027m not sure if I gave the best place because we try to look at assistants in general and the protocols that we that we describe and know about like if we if the decentralized research group that\u0027s doing things now comes up with a protocol that goes into the ITF and I think we should definitely have a document like this for that protocol but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:40",
    "text": "I find it a little bit difficult to have something that is really something very specific it\u0027s the same if you would say like if the voting machine people would come here and say we have got we have this policy on how to protect voting machines it\u0027s a really good idea but we have general security and we have the protocols that are used and we can make statements about that but it\u0027s really hard for us to make a statements about voting machines as a concept okay other feedback okay so to summarize the gist of it it would appear that there\u0027s no organic place in which to kind of take this work so typically next steps are if you think there\u0027s a bigger body work around that to try to build well I\u0027m sure kind of around that and perhaps propose come up off and with that be able to demonstrate hey there\u0027s a community of folks there\u0027s a community of interest and perhaps talk about is there more or less kind of work to do here please continue yeah try and forget the microphone I think somewhere in between the security or in the ops area yeah it\u0027s a little bit more Network ops focus traditionally but I think there\u0027s some relevant experience there security maybe is the home but making sure we get visibility from the ops areas longer okay call that area director so I think I mean I mean it\u0027s okay with Mike LED here but I think I speak for our general policy which is if it would help you have a mailing list discuss this we can make one for you so I don\u0027t know if that helps you or not but if you\u0027d like that email us and we can take care of it I any just nothin okay next up Tomasi we\u0027re gonna talk about eep new thanks okay so I\u0027m here to talk about EEP noob and this is an EAP method for out of an authentication and we have been working on this for more than two years and with the specification and then implementation modeling and verification of the protocol and then improved it based on those results and the feedback from many others so what problem does it in open solve well it\u0027s an EAP method so it would be primarily used for connecting devices to Wi-Fi networks but there\u0027s more to that and it is that the main purpose is for deploying IOT devices out of the box and that when they have no "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:40",
    "text": "pre-configured identity or credentials and when there is no professional administration to do the deployment and it\u0027s a user assisted out-of-band authentication method for example of the the out-of-band method could be scanning a dynamic QR code or a dynamic NFC tag and our goal is to have one step process for connecting the device to the Wi-Fi network and registering them utilize on the authentication server and in some use cases the device may also be linked to a user account on the authentication server so it gets an owner and then we can also bootstrap application layer security the current this is different from current EAP methods because it registers the device that is not previously registered on the on the authentication server so if we look at the network architecture here is a device and an access point and then a triple a server so like radio server that controls access to this local network and we generally think that there will be a remote Triple A server that actually implements the EAP noob server side because it needs a user interface and we don\u0027t need any software changes here on the local network but only to that server and to the device and then the device me it has no identity so how does it talk to the application server well it uses this fixed I know most identity loop at EAP don\u0027t know got net and that the local people a server has to route to the server that implements EAP noob and for that network and then the device is able to talk with the authentication server and that\u0027s the trick here in the design that since we can talk over EAP we can have inbound communication before the device is registered and that means that when we then do the out-of-band authentication that only requires very little communication out-of-band because most of the protocol can run in band so we aim to have the ot out of band communication just as a single one directional message so it could be like scanning a QR code or NFC tag here on the device or maybe maybe showing a from the server showing a QR code to a camera device and the outer band methods can go in either direction both directions as support but only one message is needed here is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:41",
    "text": "then the security protocol in a few steps and that should be fairly simple there\u0027s an authenticated easily it\u0027s key exchange over the invention and then the outer band message that authenticates this with the hash of the easy th parameters and additionally with send the secret knowledge that is then used again for authenticating the key exchange at the the key confirmation step so these are the steps and not for attaching a device to the network and then after this we create a persistent association between the device and the authentication server and in the future connections that will be used for tricking and reconnecting with the witne on Caesar with the EC dat and future all indications do not require this out-of-band step so the device is now registered and has credentials for connecting to the network the assumptions we wanted to make about the out-of-band channel here well we wanted to make minimal assumptions about the main channel so just one message in either direction should be enough either from server to the device or device the server and the outer band channel is assumed to provide either secrecy or integrity for the outer band methods but if one fails the protocol will still survive those who under security protocol design will not believe that and that\u0027s why there is this note that in the case if their message has no secrecy the other band methods someone can see for example the QR code and spy on it then there is this catch that the user must note the failure of the other endpoint to accept the received message and if it does not accept it then the user must go and reset the other endpoint that is sending out open message and remove that created Association from the another security goal here and which we have Lee recently spent a lot of time on is this resistance to the now serviced by money men in the middle that occurs that becomes a problem because we don\u0027t have like this long-term credentials to fall back to and we absolutely do not want to go to this go back to the out-of-band authentication again even well the this attacks especially happened in the key in a crypto algorithm upgrades if we want to upgrade the algorithms so the here is a quick use case for the protocol so here Alice wants to attach some displays to the moles powers up one of those displays the display scans the networks which support EAP new band for those networks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:42",
    "text": "it so she QR codes and here it is one and Alice scans the QR code now she may have an app on the phone which would be nice but if she doesn\u0027t just a QR code scanner and web browser is enough and she can log in with her cloud presence of well check that it\u0027s the that the URL is for her organization\u0027s authentication server or the cloud interface for that and then logs in and that approves the device to be attached to the wireless network and also is it\u0027s now register as Alice\u0027s device on the authentication server for application purposes and the protocol here in the background happens well here the device does this initial parties in the eighth\u0027s exchange with the authentication server here the outer bandmates it authenticates it in the two ways and then we have the key confirmation stack again in band okay so I wanted to show some details about the security design but obviously I won\u0027t be able to go through this all but so one thing is that the the outer band message we wanted that to be small so it basically has this two important with sada Lubin whom so Ananse secret norms and in the house of the key exchange in van key exchange and they can be formatted as for example as a URL and then put into a cure code or in depth tag that is dynamically changing maybe every few minutes when the nonce is chains and the noob is the part that needs confidentiality and Huub is the part that needs integrity in the handshake and one of those is enough to rule for security for identifiers since the device doesn\u0027t really have any we don\u0027t we don\u0027t register any identifier we can\u0027t trust any identifiers that the device presents us like MAC addresses and therefore we need to avoid attacks like identifiers squatting and the solution here is that the server allocates the new peer identifier for the for the peer in the initial exchange any time someone has initial exchange and then once they complete the attachment then they have that identifier so what happens if i take the if I take them if I if I take the identifiers from another device and display it on my screen and then and so so the scenario here is there like two devices in the room and um and I take the identifiers from from a device and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:42",
    "text": "the the user thinks the the user is attempting to pair with me I\u0027m the attacker the Cure so the because the device has no identity it\u0027s the physical access to the device that identifies the device so certainly well the user does need to not choose the right device and the the way it we\u0027ve implemented it is there\u0027s a reset button on the device and and you need to do like hard reset or when you take the device out of the box it\u0027s powered up and that that give will give the give this that\u0027s when the device needs to be attached to the network but if you copy Mike you if you if I have real device here and then there\u0027s your device there yes and you copy the QR code then the user has to know which device they want to attach to the network that\u0027s kind of the starting point the user is there with that for example at explain and I understand the use but the user do you so scenario maybe I\u0027m not quite following your but the the devices are both an imprinting mode and the attacker takes the QR code from a from device from legitimate device displays the his own display the at and at that point the user actually is connecting to the legitimate device but thinks is can attacker correct I\u0027m not sort of with you mean with that because this is a classic I didn\u0027t leave this binding attack the user has the camera isn\u0027t as that what these are is the camera and the attacker has another camera of his own so he can observe the user legitimate device so we have yes but I don\u0027t so the user needs to know which device they have bought which they have which they\u0027re going to attach to the network that\u0027s the only identity we have for the denies device initially the users what there is about two voices one of which is malicious and one of which is not well if the user if the device is Melissa\u0027s obviously that that\u0027s a problem because that you have a malicious device from the beginning so it\u0027s not going to be have a secure connection sure maybe occur if I can rephrase your question as I understood is you are saying the attacker was able to modify the QR code and also spy on the honest users QR code she will you lost integrity because the attacker is able to change the QR code on on the honest but he did replace with the copied okay if I take her copies from the onus device the QR code attacker doesn\u0027t know that if I Hellman is very secret I agree yeah so yes this is called a denim is binding hack the user believes that he is connecting to the malicious device pretties in fact connecting to the other device it\u0027s like this is like this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:47",
    "text": "like this is a pretty generic ripple it err on I\u0027m not saying you know things fiddle okay so I think oh I see so the attacker is connecting actually to the dishonest TV is it has the dishonest device its and that device can show the QR code from the honest device in real time yeah is there a problem in this room I\u0027m not sure because if it is the next thing that happens here right yeah so so it\u0027s kind of whether it\u0027s a problem or not this isn\u0027t difficult to define because if I think of like if we formalized attack model is not going to be a problem because that attacker you know if that other device is just now Park I know part of the attackers I\u0027m using a dishonest device to connect and that dishonest device may use whatever means of communication a ones do the usual scenario is the next thing that the user does the problem is that the toe so I like again I have no I don\u0027t understand what you\u0027re using model is but you but I\u0027m assuming the light that user is looking at the device and has like instructions on the screen right and it says do like XY and Z right so IQ so here\u0027s like so here\u0027s a scenario where like say say say there was a following the the the the user is has a remote control effectively right and on and the remote control is sending primitive signals like you know like Mouse right mouse left click etc right on and so the on and so that and say and say users standing in front of the lines device and thinks is configuring this honest device and the default dishonest device is sending him and and so-and-so sending him you know um uh sorting him cursor prompts that appear to be the case on the ones he the ones he would be sending for the honest device right because he\u0027s got a camera it\u0027s looking at on his device and so he\u0027s he\u0027s he\u0027s sending you the that is anything he knows of the mouse a nose mierqi keep pressing and so he simulates he sends you on his own screen things that appear to be simulated events because he can like see their device to see what it\u0027s doing right but instead what he\u0027s doing is guiding you through like you know miss configuring the honest device and so on and because the problem is that the user thinks is connecting to this device the Ashley Adonis device it\u0027s an interesting scenario I\u0027m not exactly sure how it how practical is and whether it has to do with the protocol or it can more generally Sabine Kayla throwing a few more thoughts in here so I guess you\u0027re sort of considering the case where the both honest device and the dishonest device are like some piece of hardware that has a remote yes and so the user is using the users is using one remote and it\u0027s being fed essentially false commands and right and you can also have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:50",
    "text": "issues you know when you\u0027ve done the unit on occasion and then the user goes to you know label the device that they just registered in some database and they mislabeled the device so they\u0027ve actually registered the Hans device but they think that it they associated with dishonest device it\u0027s not the name that these are prong mismatches and depending what the user can do with the device that could have problems for them I\u0027m less sure that I understand exactly the scenario you\u0027re describing about I\u0027m hopefully i clarify you know what you\u0027re talking about with the remote and I\u0027m doing those commands so mutton Thompson well I agree this is interesting I think the right response in this session is to say thank you for input well we\u0027ll look into it and we\u0027ll figure that out yes so this it\u0027s really interesting because it\u0027s a new way of thinking about it and that and with this so we have gone through lots and lots of this attack scenarios with various people but well it\u0027s easy to say like it\u0027s not that\u0027s not defined as an attack but I think it\u0027s it\u0027s everything like this is said matter of concern you the question is for that occurs to whether we want to do the work or any way we want to do it if we do why we\u0027re letting it run a little longer because if we actually have the time which is a huge scenario so I just wanted to get back to the back to the point I thought we\u0027ve reached the point of flailing and so getting back to the question do we did anyone speak to that question yeah no one\u0027s come up to the mic to provide direction all we\u0027ve heard so far is feedback on the technical aspects of the proposal I mean one thing I\u0027d like to hear is this is kind of related I mean what is the perspective of the of the in your working group Soto satellite image here so right now an emu we don\u0027t have any charter items to do something like this the other sort of issue here is this is a particular solution and and there\u0027s this kind of device enrollment or registration problem is being discussed in a number of different types of craft like there was I think a brewski and some other things they\u0027re not exactly the same but they\u0027re related and before I think we would want to take on the work we would want to understand what the actual use cases we are trying to solve because they\u0027re also some you know kind of restrictions here and what type of devices you can if you can\u0027t you know display a dynamic registration code QR code or whatever it is then then you wouldn\u0027t be able to use this mechanism as far as I can tell so there may be some devices that would be locked out that that wouldn\u0027t be able to use this mechanism that maybe people care about so I think there\u0027s needs to be kind of more definition around the problem space so every because we\u0027re 1zz implement the device registries and the device needs to know who is its owner and who is what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:51",
    "text": "is its network and if it\u0027s just a printed QR code with public keys you can\u0027t get that okay yeah but so these are part of them you know I don\u0027t know what the use cases are that the general community wants to work through my also co-chairing emo full disclosure I\u0027m author on this side I won\u0027t make any decisions I defer to my senior co-chair Joe but I don\u0027t think it\u0027s fair to put put it in the same basket as other solutions they don\u0027t have implementation they don\u0027t have formal models I don\u0027t see any reason why this should be put all right I would go as far as to say I think it\u0027s unfair to put it in the same basket as other solutions in this space because I understand Joe\u0027s concerned that there is a bunch of how how big proposals that go around making a ton of noise and I feel bad that this is then put in the same same basket as that but then again I leave it to his judgment to decide what to do so I have been made aware by another email participant there\u0027s a meeting to discuss these various onboarding questions this evening at 6:00 8:00 in same room where let\u0027s see I guess opposite of eg is meeting right now it\u0027s something tight that I can\u0027t pronounce but it\u0027s down on the second floor I think so it sounds like I think Joe is probably right there\u0027s some ambiguity right now around the specific use case and whether this makes sense to work on I think hopefully that meant there might be a little bit more clarity on that after that the question I\u0027d like to pose to the room into the EMU crowd especially is if this work was going to get taken up if there was consensus around a set of requirements like if we were going to dispatch this to a working group would even be the obvious working her to do that because it seems superficially like that would be the case Joe I think it could be it kind of depends if if there may be another possibility would be if there was a place where this kind of device enrollment was if there was a working group or or a community that supported that but EMU certainly could be if I but I think we\u0027d really want to make sure we knew what use case we were trying to solve because they\u0027re all so we could ration a lot and could be difficult sorry to jump in the room it\u0027s a shit lot of to is where that follow-up discussion is gonna be happening mexicana cable labs and I just want to talk about you know the this approach of providing provisioning devices using it mechanisms this is something that you know in the mo working real quick we started to discuss we discuss a little bit seems that recharter might be needed or not I don\u0027t know probably not but I would say definitely emo would be one of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:53",
    "text": "those places and one of the things that I wanted to say is that we see this happening you know trying to use it to provision some form of credentials for devices happening in many different ecosystems and you know if you guys are interested come to the 6 p.m. there will be an interesting discussion but definitely I would say maybe you know could be a good place to do it I wouldn\u0027t say that you know it could be like other working group probably it\u0027s not it\u0027s very deeply related this one so I would support yeah especially to email so yeah I think EMU would be a nice place for that document and I think the constraint of having QR code is quite reasonable it\u0027s a reasonable use cases so it\u0027s not something so specific on that though again this is a cheap method so I think it it makes sense to have it anymore because there\u0027s where the expertise is other methods that may use heap in certain ways with you know other protocols or our tie to other technologies that we can figure out but I don\u0027t see any reason why they should not be taken up by emo again I am caught her so I\u0027m not not saying as a chair all right thanks for those comments so is it given all that I think I propose we consider this provisionally dispatch to EMU pending the discussion tonight about requirements so any further discussion about what kind of where to do this work right where the design of this work should be a matter for the email working group to figure out its image here is seem okay with that well we would have to recharter so yep I mean that that\u0027s fine but they said whatever discussion that would take yeah yeah I think it\u0027s for me it\u0027s not a done deal like I think there\u0027s you know there\u0027s enough questions about like this particular problem space that I would really want to make sure that we understand what this yeah I think what I\u0027m saying is if it\u0027s gonna happen in the sec area it\u0027s gonna happen anyway yeah I for the most part agree with that unless this Eric turns into a group itself yep dispatch doesn\u0027t make it happen it\u0027s a recommendation final word yep DC\u0027s research India so well I don\u0027t want to really comment on whether you should do this work or which working group should do this work but coming from a developing economy I think solution like this will help many of the startup ecosystem that we have back in developing countries like India I know many people who have innovative solutions but the handling the security stack and all these things are creating a bit of overhead this kind of outer band the technique using standardized "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:54",
    "text": "systems is something probably the people would love and would be popular that is my hunch they are the only thing that concerns me is per device cost that that is something that we have to scale and we have to kind of check I\u0027m talking particularly from a very implementation and marketing point of view so I I do have full support for this work thank you thank you for that thank you okay next up is to be a stalking about extended security considerations for [Music] Hey so I\u0027m Tobias and this is together with Kevin who\u0027s sitting over there fiddling with his phone and it\u0027s about extended security considerations for running actually something uses the IP protocol accuracy eh and the problem was demand validation is that it basically kind of goes towards a proxy so it validates that the IP address that you can do something on the IP address the domain name is pointing to for example or that you have access to a certain mail aggress and there are several problems we stumbled about for example IP use after free attacks if you have somebody who sets up the service if for example Amazon ec2 points a DNS name there and then it\u0027s like well I don\u0027t use that service anymore throws away the service um it doesn\u0027t delete the DNS record then somebody else can grab that IP address actually get a certificate and depending on what domain is actually pointing there which sub domain can actually cause a lot of mayhem so uber got hit by this quite recently all the authority and his folks had one of their web RTC endpoints hit by this so this happens and we found over 700,000 domains in ec2 and other cloud providers which have well DNS records pointing to them but are not allocated anymore what you can also do is you can do forced on path attacks so you do a normal monkey in the middle if you happen to just be on the path or you do an EP attack to force somebody to route by you which then allows you to do the same thing again there\u0027s also DNS cache poisoning if you can poison the cache of the CA to hold a record pointing somewhere else an IP address you control you can get a certificate there was recently an attack where you over variety additional section of DNS responses it\u0027s quite academic and theoretical because you have to reduce him to you to 64 byte but they somewhat have a point similar to that if you have you know surfs tail going on you can actually force a situation which is similar to the first problem by tossing authoritative server while the party "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:54",
    "text": "that actually operates a service has done a rollover switch to a different IP so you just does the server of the CA if they actually do surf from stale of course there\u0027s worse ways to do something about this so against use of the free attacks you could start requiring TLS a records to be present especially if like the requests are coming from Amazon ec2 or well any other of the big cloud providers you could do proof of prior ownership based validation which is not really there but doing that would be an option spiking that for forced on path attacks like all of the above already helped but in addition you could also do a multiband touch point validation or you could say like ok if we are seeing attack at the IP at this subnet from which we see the request and one of the BGP monitoring services we just don\u0027t issue until that\u0027s over and for DNS for notary there\u0027s also some practical considerations like checking for small MTU packets and ignoring them chasing additional sections yourself validating DNS egg which is well to give them anyway and not using surf from cache or actually even serve stale the question is why I draft the idea is to have explicit operational requirements or something informal informational for prices that are using acne and when you look at the Ecuador for example you do have some of the medications we already discussed in the either operational or security considerations section however others are missing and if you have something like for example surf stale surf stale I contacted see also you will probably also come the resistance security considerations now but then you have all these recommendations all over the place in different there are some different parts and what this basically leads to is people reading them or people not reading them all if you miss one you might have a problem for your CA a little bit on the history of the whole thing so we had a first paper on this in 2018 in February we presented it at the ACMA working group at ITF 102 where we\u0027re told like a cape you can present all along drop us a draft we sent a draft roughly two weeks three weeks four weeks ago and after a male discussion because people were especially concerned that this is not protocol specific but more like an operational idea for like how to run a CA this was moved to SEC dispatch so thank you opinions please feedback would the Acme kocher\u0027s any of them like to comment on this draft you have near I wasn\u0027t that IDF one or two but this seems entirely Acme I don\u0027t see anywhere else that it belongs so if you get dispatched "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:55",
    "text": "anywhere it should go to us I think does anyone have a contrary opinion to that Charlie if you expand a little bit on the parts that people thought were not just acting me specific because I didn\u0027t quite follow that so the comments were more general like this is about how to operate a CA or like operate resolvers operate services if you\u0027re a CA and not about likes a specific acne protocol it was actually like actually a relatively short email exchange which ended with Richard I think hitting up you ask him whether we could have it here so there was not that much discussion it was more like okay this should be dispatched first yeah I think the upshot is Richard burns again is that did the attacks like the BGP and dynastic layer attacks apply very broad and then actually all three of the classes of problem that you apply to other methods of issuing certificates besides acting all the manual stuff that exists is pre active yeah I mean it\u0027s a minority in the web now but yeah and so I think the idea if you\u0027re going to do the document like this would be to have something that you could read it as a general web CA and think about how you can improve your infrastructure whether or not you\u0027re using an automated protocol like a key that\u0027s a I think there could be some utility here um it\u0027s you know the see a browser forum working a validation working group could use this as some inputs of their consideration of what validation methods to accept I think for me this probably looks like an ad sponsored draft because it is so so informational so like it would benefit from some discussion on site this patricide mailing lists on to review the content and the right etf last call to get some reviews but I\u0027m not sure this needs to get the SPECIAL working here doesn\u0027t seem like a big enough piece of work what I think might be interesting to discuss attack me if you you\u0027re up for doing some additional work is to look at some some mitigations - especially the first problem you know to use after free there are some protocol updates there that that could be used to address that problem I think they would probably be welcome in the acne working on that that would actually be another thing you could do like the proof of Pirozhki ownership but technically technically the problem already goes away if you require TLS era codes to be present which then moves somewhat closer to the DNS challenge but should be depending on whether you\u0027re regenerating key material on every reissue of a certificate only be a one-time setup instead of updating the challenge in DNS okay yeah I Shawn Turner so we do have this RFC that was written long ago called RF these RC 3647 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:56",
    "text": "which is certificate policy and certificate following this policy framework which tells you about how to write policies for writing your CA and how the CA is they\u0027ll run its say how they do it if these things are generally applicable there maybe you could update that thing to to include oh by the way these are the things we\u0027ve seen in the rear in the live world think more about these I don\u0027t know if that would be useful or not so that\u0027s a delicate patient to put on the operating table but I mean and it\u0027s gonna be a big deal if we open up that document for revision but you know it might be we could issue a point update so so for those who are not aware there\u0027s this RFC gets used as a basis for CA policy documents that are used in the legally binding stuff and so making edits to that it has rather dramatic implications for a bunch of the industry that said if we could find a way to translate mitigations to concern you\u0027re talking here into that context it could have a very much more direct effect on CA operations so it would be a drastic step but may be worth considering yeah that speech to the one that still doesn\u0027t help us the where I think that we\u0027re gonna if that work we\u0027re gonna be done I\u0027m looking at rice because I think is probably Elena or we\u0027ll just all just reopen PKK\u0027s and call Kent back in the service so that\u0027s something we should also keep in mind so referencing our other older women so this is moving quite fast so actually like one of these fonts was just edit this ITF when I stumbled across a search tail Records and my personal expectation would be that there would be a lot more adjourn or various people are like starting to beat on this new thing in the ecosystem and there will be new things Pat that\u0027s also something to keep in the back of her hats so I mean so this is changing we might not be quite the right moment so it\u0027s a lazy thing does in RFC well the question is well it\u0027s not more it\u0027s not really a statement but I know that there are some movements in the ITF which are also looking at often security considerations so the routing people are dealing with this the question is whether collaboration with them and getting something which can be more easily update if not also be an interesting thing to do in this context gothics it seems to me given what Richard said about how this is something which is the as a lot of perience um that has a lot of people to put in the world depending on it that sounds to me like at least a new working group because that needs to pull it a lot more community that are not sort of spending on things currently so I could even so I was gonna propose that if if we if you want to do if you want to propose a draft at the roughly the same form of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:56",
    "text": "the current draft for your providing operational considerations I think that\u0027s probably best as an ad sponsored draft if the 80s are willing to come consider that I guess I\u0027ve heard from you all that perhaps you thought it should be an ACME so I\u0027m trying to like avoid bouncing this around a lot what do you think about that you\u0027re off Ben Kanak so if you\u0027re saying this is primarily in operational practices document we do have the or and you\u0027re also saying it should be sponsored we do have operations and management area directors that is true but this is very specific to ca operations which is it doesn\u0027t really - you know yang it doesn\u0027t really it\u0027s a gang at all so it\u0027s probably a perhaps area at all I mean it would seem that depending on the aperture you want to open and you know there is the acne and acne kind of focused thing if there really are that many different angle once we\u0027re gonna need more coordination and it\u0027s really kind of a question of how how broad do you want it to be and that suggests the form so it sounds like there were kind of three possible work items we discussed here one is what you\u0027ve presented today another one would be an update to acne that would mitigate some of these concerns which would probably live in the acne working group and that there would be updating the certificate policy document which Sean raised which I think I I think I agree with Jonathan would be probably a new working group so just focusing on that first question of what we do with this this document let\u0027s let\u0027s not reopen P kicks we have lamps we can keep it as small as we want it if we\u0027re gonna update that we should keep it over there reopening P kicks is a sucking hole don\u0027t do that just you let me guarantee you if you open this patient it will bleed everywhere [Music] alright so that that is purely hypothetical if to be as would like to propose something of that shape we\u0027ll figure that across that bridge when we come to it for this document I\u0027ll reiterate the proposal to perceive that this is a tea sponsored if the 80s are willing to consciously consider that should seems like they\u0027re not objecting to the the East German judge I think you know one of us will either take it probably me or try to shop it to orange "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:59",
    "text": "but I think we I think I guess I\u0027d like to use a safe dispatch mailing list to sort of refine perhaps I\u0027m not saying it\u0027s not good I haven\u0027t read it IANA so I maybe it\u0027s incredible it needs work um so but so yes so perhaps perhaps the chairs could assist us never find the process absolutely in that following that request could I ask for maybe a couple folks who\u0027d be willing to read through this dog can provide some comments show of hands you know I see you of Paul waters and someone whose name I don\u0027t know so request being we would like to rework off does this ITF the document one more time before before it\u0027s reviewed the course a lot of changes great okay I guess my request would be like focus on problem earring as much as possible solution earring perhaps only some because as a solution earring maybe maybe like a lot of design work so but III familiar with your work and like a bit obviously the subtyping the problems like critically important I think it\u0027s fine to sort of say here are some things you might do but like like we can\u0027t really wrap for an axle on the solution right so so it sounds like it\u0027s refined a little more drop it on the list we\u0027re headed in the direction of some kind of ad sponsorship okay the aperture stays staying small on this thanks okay thank you everyone okay so that\u0027s the last dispatch item to quickly wrap up eatery where we stood with all of them the first draft we heard it was about certificate limitation policy and the feedback was primarily that the use case in motivation wasn\u0027t exactly clear that if there\u0027s a desire to kind of move forward there\u0027s a need to clarify and refine some of those issues then the second draft we talked about was about algorithm identifiers for HSS and the feedback primarily was lamps has to be the place to take this work and that\u0027s going to require reach our Turing and there\u0027s a conversation about how to do that reach our Turing but that\u0027s the that\u0027s the recommended dispatch next step and as we mentioned that\u0027s just a recommendation the next draft we heard about was about general considerations for crypto asset custodians and it appeared if there\u0027s no natural home for that work and you know some community building and interest is required so you know kind of next steps are get a mailing list build a community around that maybe that leads to a Boff for next steps then we talked about a noob and there\u0027s gonna be further discussion tonight so provisionally we\u0027re recommending where the the dispatch process is saying take that to EMU further discussion is going to happen tonight and then we just talked about extending security considerations for acne another refinement is going to be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:59",
    "text": "kind of published it\u0027s headed in the direction of some kind of ad sponsor for their discussion we required about which mediate wealth will handle that so what with that is there another draft we want to talk about or any other business going once going twice and then before I close I was asked by the co-chairs of the of the measurement and analysis for protocols research group that\u0027s meeting right now in chat la no one that they have some security relator topics so if you\u0027re interested please join them now they run until until six ten all right thanks everyone "
  }
]