[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:10",
    "text": "well hi everyone let's wait one or two minutes more before starting hmm okay i think we can start so welcome everyone to this interim of the co-working group i am marco tilolka my future is high mahi minutes as a reminder the not well summarized in this slide applies please check the links for more details it's not only about ipr it's all something special about our conduct so be nice and professional"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "to each other we have a relatively small agenda for today i believe will end up the meeting uh earlier than usual um it's some status update uh as usual recently on the two cork of documents under sg review on href especially and coral and then we have a presentation from john on the recently submitted co-op attacks document i plan to spend a few minutes in the end to discuss about the next interim meetings after this one but that's for the aub does anyone want to bash this agenda for today if none that's up to kirsten with korkov yeah thank you so i haven't created slides for today because essentially we we an ongoing discussion that we need to finish before we can complete closing the discusses so rob wilton sent the forward of three emails last friday to the core mating list unfortunately under a somewhat uh misleading title something about the yang catalogue or something but that's not the subject of those uh messages yeah i'm also often making the mistake of not adjusting a subject line when forwarding things um anyway so we do have the remaining discussion open on um what the relation is uh between uh yang sids and yang names there is a somewhat complex"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "relation set up in the currency document and uh rob has been proposing to to simplify this losing a little bit of functionality but we aren't even clear how much functionality we would be losing uh there but it might in particular make the job of intermediates that need to translate between the the sid and the name form much easier so it's um um well if if this was entirely my draft then i would say of course rob is right let's do that but of course we have several people who have contributed to this draft and i think we need to um do this as a working group and so um please look at those messages look at the the way corset is currently setting this up and state your opinion or stated now if you who have one at hand yeah it's one of those questions where there is not a single right answer i mean it's not the question whether two plus two is four or five uh but it's really a question how how do we design something so it actually can survive for a couple of decades and that's always a difficult uh question to to discuss but i think we are very very close to finishing um this now with this last one discuss outstanding and yeah if if there is no stronger position in the next couple of days then then probably i will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "jump the gun and and simply accept those changes or write text for those changes and um of course the working group should be involved in in that so it would be interesting to hear from people and interesting to hear from the chairs whether they want to to introduce some some further delay by by having the working group properly participate so that's all i have uh yeah francesca's asking how big do i envision these changes to be with respect to the the amount of text um actually i think the the they will remove some of the text that is trying to weasel around what we actually mandate here um so we will have a very very simple rule um with respect to the way this protocol is is run in the long run well it's um it does change things only after the yang modules uh being being um um communicated about here actually change themselves so it's really uh the matter how of how we do we reflect evolution in the yang modules so it's really hard to to even predict whether the the change is material or just a simpler way of describing what we would be doing anyway"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "but right now there are avenues open that that we would be closing uh and and making things much more mechanical yeah yeah sure so nothing changes on the wire but the the way we expect the designated experts to to operate and we expect the the software that generates these sets to operate um or to actually to be used less how it operates that that does change a little bit so i don't even have a clear-cut answer to that question sorry i can't talk i i probably uh would have to look at the diff to really what if if a full last call rerun is necessary um the thing that worries me is that uh that would take two more weeks and then we would have to also give the isg either like an um unofficial chance to to review the changes and and possibly like change their ballot or i think that would be enough the other option is to actually like bring it back to the telechat so that they the rest of the asg has a chance to look at it but i don't think it's necessary in this case um but even then like at least one more week for the asg to to take a look at it and unofficially confirm that everything is fine and then we're dangerously close to march and we don't wanna uh we don't wanna like we want to have this done before the isg um changes which should not i don't think it should be a problem but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "um yeah it's always best to have it done before the isg changes yeah and it creates new work for the people coming in and so on so i think that that's an important consideration yeah i haven't done much worse changes in north 48 so yeah i i can't really help you answer this question but i will generate a pr uh unless we have a significant uh input on this question and then see how how that is accepted and then you can look at it and see what the text changes look like yes and and again this is just in the case that we need to rerun the full uh last call because this is still answering uh rob's comments so it could be seen as you know we're fixing things and that's it we don't need to do much more yeah and that was the sid document kirsten because the zebra should be well almost done at least all these classes were raised but maybe there is a moment left um there are a few last minute runs that need to be done through the documents uh aligning uh dates on on yang modules and things like that and i would like to combine with that with uh answering the the comments there's a little bit of editorial stuff that that still needs to be done but i wanted to have the the big um issues the discuss level issues out of the way before we do the editorial work because uh yeah the editorial stuff is going to change with with the big issues all right and thanks for the work on that too by the way done so far sure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "okay uh i think we know how to proceed with this any more comment on karkov if no then we can switch to the next pair of documents i think there's update especially on href now it's really on coral itself you want to cover href karsten yeah i'm not sure that that actually a lot changed since we last reported this so work is ongoing on the implementation side we are trying to trying to clean up our test vectors uh and are finding little nits that need to be uh resolved and i hope uh at the time of the next interim we will have all all these nits out of the way and can actually decide how many of these test vectors we actually incorporate in the document because there should be some examples there but not the whole test vector stack because that gets very boring very quickly um so that's something that should happen in the next two weeks but it's not yet done right it's still good to have somewhere maybe on meet up the full set of tests anyway certainly yeah great okay thanks uh just to double check i think there's nothing specific to report on quora itself instead right christian also correct okay thank you then we can move to co-op attacks and that's john hi john thank you you can share the lives yourself you should be ready for sharing okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:06",
    "text": "all right so do you see the slides [Music] yes good so this picture is meant to illustrate a distributed amplification attack using co-op for example multicast and this is the document co-ops attack and also talk about the status of the echo request draft corp attacks is authored by me christian amsas joram francesca and another john john funera here uh so firstly the background if you don't remember the co-op attacks is a informational companion document to the echo request tag token processing document that document is a standard tracks it will hopefully very soon be published as an rfc content of co-op attacks is some introduction which discusses security properties um important for co-op especially actuators uh then it describes some known attacks on co-op mostly in a theoretical way and some of these attacks are later mitigated by the or can be made created by the echo request draft document then it describes attacks using co-op namely denial of service and amplification attacks echo request tag provides mitigations to some of these it echo can be used against delays attacks and denial of service attacks um should be clearly some denial of service that it's not the solution for everything a request tag can be used against the request fragment rearrangement attacks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "and the updated token person this thing mitigates the response delay and mismatch attack hopefully to 100 percent if we got the text correct so we recently updated the version two zero two and zero two addresses almost all received comments on zero zero and zero one uh there is a new paragraph explaining the concept of freshness and how it relates to replay protection and sequence numbers there are more references and updated reference text to the soon to be published rfc 9105 echo request like token processing kersten made a comment about the rfc 2119 terminology and wanted an explanation of what the meaning was in the informational draft i think it's perfectly fine to use in the information drop i don't think these drugs need it so i have we have deleted all normative text in this document i think that's an improvement probably also makes it easy to agree on the descriptions in the draft it's easy to describe attacks these are like facts what to do about and show the master note facts and its opinions uh then correct the text on oscar over tcp it's not tcp that offers protection it is if you use the special replay protection tls like replay protection in oscor um then the other sentence why miss binding attacks do not work in https"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "um and then after a comment from kirsten the example with a homeless man a hitman and somebody getting killed was replaced with a girl stealing apples and evil queen poisoning apples then there's quite a lot of small editorial changes several of these were based from commons from carsten and i made uploaded these slides this morning but they were at lunch and they're already outdated after that christian provided a pull request to fix the remaining part of the remaining issue that was not fixed in zero two so that will hopefully be merged soon current status and next steps so this is a companion document to a request tag accurate quest tag is in what 48 and the information here is also outdated this has now been this the fix to issue 77 have been merged and the the current document is approved by two of the authors and the 80 so we're waiting for joran which will hopefully approve the document soon then this can move forward in there it will never happen it will never happen then you know who to blame at least if you're waiting on this document then this co-op attacks document was uh presented at itf 1111 um and then the conclusion was that one one good option was to make a bcp and uh there's recently been discussion both in tinted thing already and on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "core list about such a bcp i think my i understood these pcbs to be published quite soon i think now i understand that kirsten wants this to be published uh later after research i think that might be a good idea but we definitely need to do something soon as well i don't think the thing already would be soon enough attacks using co-op is happening now um so third point here i think we should publish co-ops attacks as a information documents relatively soon as yesterday by security aide benjamin k keduck he took an example what the uta working group did when they published the mitigations and a commanding document illustrating talking about the attacks uh and the first step to that would of course be working group adoption comments questions kirsten go ahead yeah i sent a couple of messages to the mailing list that i would be reading aloud now so i think this is really important and we kind of have been sidetracked by by publishing the echo request document which is um well yeah providing some protocol elements that help a lot here but uh that means that we have uh essentially forgotten to provide the bigger picture and and i think it's good that we we have an initiative to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "work on this um one problem we had um in in this space is that we don't necessarily agree on on the the the the severity of certain kinds of attacks and the value of of uh certain mitigation strategies and so on um so it's relatively hard to do a consensus document uh in this uh space i mean the consensus is that something somebody should do something about this but beyond that we we are a little bit stuck sometimes and my oh marco dropped out my view of this is that we really should be serious in understanding uh this space before we do the next set of recommendations so there are recommendations in 7252 there are recommendations in in 9175 including an update um to to the way some processing rules uh work in seven two five two um and um we um i think if we want to do this right then we should have the the whole picture and maybe we also should separate the attacks on coab and the attacks using co-op from each other so this this last slide is talking about denial of service and application attacks which i think is is different from the question what can you do to the communication between two co-op implementations by blocking a request or exchanging requests or manipulating something somewhere um so there are different targets here and and different kinds of attacks so it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "maybe useful to separate this so in the end i would think that it would be useful to have a document that that really provides information and if we can get these also data um on uh what's going on in the dos and amplification environment and um yeah and in some places we can just shrug and say oh they should have read the document but still we want to work on on making it less likely that more serious implementations of co-op provide the same attack angle so i think it would be good to to collect some information and also discuss a little bit on uh the the cost of certain mitigations so if you use echo for instance then what could be a single round trip becomes two round trips and that's a definite cost in many cases that's not a problem uh in many cases that's unfortunately inevitable so it doesn't really matter whether it's a problem but i think we also should look at the the cost equation of of the various mitigations and finally we also should look at the mitigations um with respect to the actual effect because sometimes mitigations just mean that the the attackers will use a slightly different angle and we we should need to under we should we need to understand uh whether the mitigations we propose have this property because then we shouldn't be seriously recommending them or recommending mitigations that that don't have that property so i think that this requires uh a lot"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "of discussion and and actual research input and that's why why with the new sec core activity in the research group i was thinking whether that might be the right place uh to do this and then based on that information we can even go ahead and define bcp because we have all the data and can make somewhat authoritative statements about what should and should not be done yeah i agree with basically most things you say but i think we also need to consider a cost of not doing mitigations these attacks are happening now one could argue that this research you talk about should have done five years ago before or ten years ago before publishing all these iot rfcs i think we at least need to make sure this is not getting worse i think what you talk about the things the thing rg things you're talking about and doing that before doing an r bcp sounds like a good plan but i think you also need to do something now i think a minimum requirement is to publish a description of attacks i think we could remove all recommendations most recommendations are gone from the co-op attacks paper i think there are some remaining this could also go and just be a description of attacks without saying how to mitigate them yeah i also think we should have something informational now and then of course more work is required to build something uh nicer and final and sure they'll require more research work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "i think you're also aligned in terms of well not timeline in detail but as a sequence of steps right you're you look like on the same page thinking of john's mail sent earlier today am i right yeah i think we have differences in the details uh yeah so yeah i i still think that the the um we could write this this document describing the the state of the union in two steps we could start by publishing this is happening now and then extend expand this document to here's more data about that here's the the exact reason why these attacks were possible even though uh co-op actually has some some mechanisms in place that should have been preventing them um and so on so i think we can do this in two steps we don't have to to uh breed this document for five years or something but on the other hand [Music] putting an rfc number on the document doesn't make it significantly more valuable so um i think that that the more important part is to actually gather the the information in an authoritative way but uh looking at uh looking like we are reacting is certainly a good thing even if it's five years late yeah i think putting an rfc number on it shows that ief is taking this serious instead of today when it's an individual draft [Music] i think one option for splitting is to publish"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "very theoretical attacks right now maybe even remove everything in the co-ops attacks document about which kind of implementations and which countries these attacks are and do all these more detailed practical things in in a later things to think rg document so if you understand correctly this co-op attacks draft can at least mention the fact that club can be used to mount attacks but then we leave for the for the future document more details about that i i i think all the diagrams in the current document should be published quite soon so the current document does two different things it does the attacks on co-op part and the attacks with co-op yeah and which which half of that are we discussing right now i would like to publish both of these but these are nice companions to the request tag if it's one document or several i doesn't really matter but i think idf should publish this kind of information quite soon i don't think it's okay to wait several years for thing to think rg working group then i think i think we we need to publish attack i think we need to be strict there in in future rfcs even if we don't have all the understanding if we even we don't have a bcp in place the understanding we we do have some knowledge and that is that the current documents are quite soft and core what is used for dynamic service attacks and it's hard to even say that they are violating idf"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "requirements because the requirements where we have the different views and i think we should focus on things where we do have consensus it doesn't make sense to to come up with a a position that is controversial and say we should publish this quickly i don't understand what is controversial if we remove all the guidance on how to mitigate yeah and that has happened already sorry what we are excusing what what we are actually describing is how people have uh not implemented the protocol correctly and what the consequences of that were i don't i don't think it's clear that they have implemented the protocol something is wrong but it's not clear that they don't follow the rfcs that's where we differ in assessing the situation yeah is there any other use in court i'm sure there is yeah it's mostly document authors around actually i think if core is not doing something now one might come to the conclusion that is controversial to publish more rfcs that that might cause denial of service but kirsten understood you'd be fine already to document this informational"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "attacks against co-op at least right that part looks just fine we definitely should be speaking about uh what has been happening in places where people didn't heed what the the documents say okay but it's not not something um oh we messed this up but it's there are certain consequences for the actions of implementers and here they are do you think the current draft is missing something about this right now well i made a small pull request with a few places where i think the text is a little bit on on the wrong side of that argument um so again the first thing we should agree on is splitting that thing between attacks on co-op and and attacks using co-op because i think it's this there's absolutely no reason the two things need to be in the same document um except that they both were triggered by some some but by the the echo request document and and some common mitigations uh that are in that document but i think for the current purpose uh documenting what you should not do i think we can separate this i think we can be really quick on the dos side with that i would i'm fine with separating but to clarify you would keep in this first document the attacks against co-op and you you'd entirely take out the part of using co-op for the os right that's the second document right and that's actually the one where we should have the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "adoption call first the only question is where do we have the adoption call yes maybe document first at least we need to split the document first before we have any adoption call but we could if i understand you correctly you would be fine with the adoption call on the attacks on co-op but not on their attacks you can go up no i'm i'm actually fine with an adoption call on both parts i'm just wondering where that adoption call should occur yeah that's a minor point so in the end it's it's just going to make our life harder to make the wrong decision here uh while doing this in the first place is really the important part but to to be clear i was asking before about removing the part on using co-op to perform the attack would you like to remove it entirely i mean not even mentioning that anymore in the first document well there are now two documents we just split them and the first document is about attacks on co-op so we're not removing anything we are splitting in two documents yeah yes um how does it sound to you to have uh the split down in the near future and then then we can go for adoption of the first document then yeah that sounds that sounds good should be reasonably easy because the one part is in section two and the other part is in section three yeah i think we the waters can provide a split quite soon yeah that'll be great thanks okay and the next question was is this something the car working group should do or the thing you think research group should do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "and of course we seem to have different perceptions of how long something would take yeah i don't really care about the um who is doing it but i would have i would like to have it published soon not in a few years i think you can publish several documents with different angles on this topic right and i also think we need to discuss how to how to make requirements quicker for for example the group co-op document and the conditional um attributes i think so by the way there there's already some text about this topic in group combis uh that that we added following your input on this topic john uh so hopefully it's better than it used to be that's great i will review that i think there are people in them thank you hi uh i i think it would be interesting to publish uh if you want to do it at a bcp though you can't do it in a research group right it has to be in the working group so um if whether it's informational or whatever if it's anything above informational you pretty much are stuck doing it through the rsd track i think nothing in the bcp would be a new document it would not be any part of this document i think me and kirsten agree on that [Music] jorah was in the queue then disconnected and and he's back yeah this interesting experience if you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "raise your hand you suddenly disappear from the meeting that's something try out in the real meetings as well yeah i just wanted to add that uh i mean on the timeline here karsten you you you uh request uh a research activity around uh around the tax which i think is great do you know of people interested in working with that i mean there are co-authors of this document but this document has taken some time do you know others that are interested in in doing more like paper um publishing type of research people people have been reporting this on on the level of blogs i'm not sure there are a lot of of research level contributions we could point to but of course there are researchers that look at ddos so being able to pull them in may be one of the advantages of doing this in the research group yeah i mean that would be great i just don't know the people so if we we think that those are available then that sounds like the right right way at least on that part of the work okay thanks thanks shaun and joran any more opinion input okay then the next step is really about doing the split up front and then we should be able to move on with adoption with the first document at least sounds good john yeah okay thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "on what to do with the second and in which group that should be thank you very much for this work thank you okay if there's no other technical topic or document to discuss we are to the aob yeah just a few words in the next entry meetings um we have two left before atf-113 and i will not be able to attend the next one on february 16th since i'll be away basically the whole week for a project final review and this was already known when we scheduled this interim series but it was a one-off absence for me and this was still the best compromise to avoid a worse guidance for seaborne and some of its key participants now unfortunately i've learned this week that jaime would not be available either due to personal issues so i i'm afraid we have to cancel the meeting of february 16. uh i was hoping if rather than just keeping it we can reschedule it uh for the week after of course not wednesday because they would collide with cyborg but keeping the same time 15 utc uh i see two options uh tuesday 22 if lp1 at the same time is not a problem or thursday 24 which should be in the week without an isg telechat so it should work for francesca two so probably overall thursday 24 should be a better option overall would that work for the group first of all any opinion plus one for 24 kirsten both were but or is a telechat but it's not i mean it doesn't matter if i miss it i will read the minutes it's not the most important that i i join"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "okay thanks and here no check shown around so okay i will cancel the one for the 16 and reschedule for thursday 24 same time 15 utc and of course after it will have one more the week after uh on march 2nd and that's going to be the last one before itf-113 okay uh thanks for the feedback more you want to discuss today um uh i just sent a reminder that a request for um okay so is core going to request two hours or or times two or what's the plan no i plan to go for one session of two hours that would be good enough to handle everything i understand the constraints we would be good yeah i i have to say that this time um there is a lot of working groups that have indicated at least in art uh that they won't be meeting because they they've been doing interims instead um but yes the isg is always very careful with um allowing more than one session more than one two hour session now that we're we're still on a restricted schedule with uh hybrid uh meetings so if yeah but yeah it doesn't apply okay so thanks for the reminder and yes i also don't want to schedule any time that then we don't really need especially in this situation okay then we can close the meeting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "thanks a lot for today talk to you again on thursday 24 then thank you thank you"
  }
]
