[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:39",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] Alvaro\u0027s ear so I think we can start and and they also okay everybody welcome to the afternoon session one the plan is to actually talk about LS VR it\u0027s interesting to see you know the dynamics of the new scheduling mechanism here so now suddenly instead of like you know the one before the last day in the afternoon we are now on the last day on in the afternoon and you know the dynamics about people attending seems to be you know interesting to say the least anyway so we have a two hour slot here allocated for us I don\u0027t you know looking into the schedule itself I don\u0027t think we have like a you know a very full agenda so with a bit of luck you know we\u0027ll be able to fill it up but my anticipation is that a lot of work actually is being you know reasonably you know modeled over already and you know probably can you know steam ahead you know pretty well so my culture right now is you know distributing the blue shade so please fill it in so that the next time we actually have a similar kind of like very comfortable large room you know it actually fits us all very well so that\u0027s fantastic so now before we can start off any volunteers for doing the Jabra scribe I see somebody pointing at a see I see two people pointing at a see okay otherwise you know we will monitor it from from our end here so that\u0027s okay anybody willing to do like minutes so you don\u0027t have to do it alone it can be done over the ether pad you know application it is allowed to look at me right now you don\u0027t have to look at your screen or at like something else any volunteers okay Adam I don\u0027t thank you so much so okay before we go on you\u0027ve probably have seen this thing already so anything you say you know it\u0027s actually going to be record it\u0027s going to be part of a contribution to what\u0027s the ITF so you have to be aware of it you know this is the yes okay so AC cool thank you so much so we have no duality is the first time you see it right now then you probably haven\u0027t really attended a lot of sessions so I do recommend you in that case to actually read it very deep and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:39",
    "text": "detailed and you know so that you are aware of it so the first thing to look into where we are with our journey towards you know standardizing you know the lsv are you know a technology here so we started ITF 101 we have done you know two ITF meetings in general we have done two in dreams to streamline you know the progress of our work I think right now you know if you look into where we are in the quality of documents and and how the document actually are set up and the details which are includes I think we have progressed well particularly seeing where we came from you know in the beginning of the year so it actually is going pretty well the road forward for us is to actually have like one more IETF meeting have like one more intimate meeting to discuss some of the open topics which actually may come out you know as a result of some of the actions we\u0027re gonna be taking it out during this but the working group session here in Bangkok so this is agenda we have so I took particular you know very good care that the agenda where I shown on the screen here is actually the same agenda as what is posted on the website this time the last time it tricked me a little bit so as I mentioned we have about like 120 minutes and we\u0027ve tried to carve it up in this kind of time slots a little bit of time left so we have about like 10 minutes spare looking into so you know I see some people actually who have been allocated like 50 minute slot and actually gave me a 40 slide presentation so maybe that could be able to initially you know used by those people to actually you know do it that way so for the rest so this is the agenda any anybody wants to say something about it shuffle with it or you know just you know say victory and you know be super happy and make a dance of joy okay nothing okay so let\u0027s let\u0027s keep on going them so the first thing what I would like to say is like you know if you look into the the milestones of what we have so we have like a set of you know deliverable deliverables not talking about a technology itself we also have something you know which is not really started upon you know I\u0027ve been told it is not you know something that is an element that requires a lot of time to progress which is like you know the manageability and the yang specification for you know links data vector routing I\u0027m just you know pointing it out here so you know it isn\u0027t it is on track but we do have you know a milestone you know in July so we need to be aware of it we should not really lose you know visibility of it either and it needs a big progress so the people actually want to start working on that I motivate them to start looking into it okay so yes okay I just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:39",
    "text": "want to make a quick comment on that I think that would be also been on that is a dependency on bgp hang model which has been discussed at the idea working group okay thank you okay so looking at your agenda that actually we can start with our you know first presentation here and that is to give like like a 15 minute you know high-level overview of some of the conclusions and discussions we actually had you know during the entry meeting in October itself so Jacob will be you know presenting this you know out of whatever he is based in the US it\u0027s like very late that this is side of the planets so that\u0027s why I put him first on the agenda so so this will be remote presentation so for the next 15 minutes hello Jacob you can hear us you can talk hello can you say something I\u0027m not hearing you yeah can you walk up to the meeting room thing again so we can push the big message red button here sorry for this [Music] yes it\u0027s what you know all right there we go I have audio I think but not video it seems I have a there\u0027s can you hear me okay yes okay perfect well just I mean it\u0027s like you know you won\u0027t glue the beam okay okay so I\u0027ll tell you next slide I guess I can\u0027t see the slides as you show them on my screen I think there might be some browser issue or something but we\u0027ll try to keep in sync and I won\u0027t need 15 minutes so we so as you know if you go to pass the title slide to slide number two so the meting meta meeting info slide yes all right so we met on October 1st in California in the morning met for about two two and a half hours or something there was 10 of us and that the two chairs and as as you already provided the where are you obviously an IETF 103 and these are the updates from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:39",
    "text": "what happened in interim meeting number two so you can go to the next slide there Gunther so I\u0027ll slide number three yes the the the intent of course with all the interim meetings is to continue to drive the deliverable forward and to that end we met and discussed the link state discovery protocol we did a deep dive in that Randy provided a lot of updates starting with the requirements that we\u0027re building after we build the draft of course as he says in typical IETF fashion went through that and had a number of updates we\u0027ll talk about our discussions that will talk about her in a minute and then went through the draft that was the majority of the discussion and Kure provided some updates that were made to the BGP SPF draft in response to comments that have been made from various reviewers and when we finished with some security requirements and discussions I will talk about her in a minute so you can move onto to slide more for so the the link state or Ethernet requirements we did a basic review of the requirements essentially coming to the conclusion that one it needs to be simple when you need layer two liveness and simplicity we need to be able to discover nodes and links and of course that should be simple and we need to then discover encapsulations and provide some northbound API to BP SPF throughout the discussion of the requirements as well as the actual draft review we kind of kept coming back to this need for you think we need something security related but we don\u0027t really know what it means and we came to some conclusions that we\u0027ll talk about about providing some hooks and then and then Randi did a review of the other options that could be used for this kind of thing and none of them quite seemed to fit what we need for LSP our next slide please slide number five so on the draft review there was significant updates to the draft and the o2 draft and we went through and reviewed the motivations for why we need such a thing we spend some time talking about the checksum that\u0027s needed whether it\u0027s 32 bit 64 128 bit and kind of shot somewhere in the middle we talked some about the changes that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:39",
    "text": "were made around the interlink ether protocol particularly around we need to assume that we should always expect a new node and how that should change hellos and so forth again spend some time talking about security and authentication which was the introduction to what we\u0027ve called the security blog and that\u0027s an effort to be able to provide some hooks into being able to provide security should somebody ever want to be able to to take advantage of that and we spent some time talking about hellos keepalive timescales one versus the other etc and now we talked about the draft review of bgp SPF this is on slide six so the status update is at that time it\u0027s mostly in a stable State updates were made from some of the comments and the reviews that were made from the reviewers and we believe at least at that time it\u0027s ready for some implementation work there was some added manageability considerations and some I was one of the comments that was made and what do we do about explicit withdrawals that was kind of left as as part of the discussion and finally the last thing we kind of wrapped up about was how do we what do we do about security obviously it\u0027s important but we don\u0027t really know what the threat model is and so that\u0027s kind of led us to well what if we we create this blog that we can use to add security somebody could hook into and then perhaps maybe we create an informational draft that says this is one way that we could use this as kind of a path for somebody to be able to take and we sort of left it there we talked about well maybe some of the things would be to be able to provide identity so we could tell who was trying to connect on our LSO we linked provide authentication maybe privacy even but we kind of left it at that there was some discussion throughout the interim meeting of what do we do process wise to get some of these things through the IETF where it is some of these like LS that we live and how do we handle it obviously for IETF 103 which I assume since or there now that was all taken care of it pretty much wraps up what we talked about in the you know our meeting okay so okay so thank you for that the Jacob absolutely so I see nobody at the mics here so that means you yes wrong Randy to the mics Bouchard is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:42",
    "text": "Jacob will they\u0027ve been further thoughts on security and I\u0027ll present them shortly but credit should go to Eric Cline for bringing up the issue Thank You Randy so okay Jacob that\u0027s it then I think you can actually can go to to sleep at your side of the planet thank you for this think you move microphones now Randy so we don\u0027t have like a small square we have a little cross to stand on it\u0027s a very small one though thank you and you have 40 slides okay thanks Randy Bush arcus and you\u0027ll notice a new victim has been added to the draft Rafal stock and that\u0027s because he\u0027s implementing and so we\u0027ve been sitting side by side for 10 days now and the knock with me making a mess of the draft and I\u0027m trying to implement it beating me up so um Oh God you can\u0027t make it so it just flips properly let me see what I see welcome um so you\u0027ll remember this which is mainly I believe I can go slowly right because we have 30 minutes oh that\u0027s called slowly so what we\u0027re talking about is Ethernet protocol to pass link state and the address families and encapsulations that are available on each device and will be pushed up to bgp SPF or some upper layer protocol to actually communicate between devices so to form the topology of the network etc so what\u0027s new and different new data framing we now call the message of the entire application message the traditional name is a program protocol data unit and it may occupy multiple data grams because of the MTU or other limitations of an Ethernet frame and they get reassembled and they can be reassembled into the datagrams can be reassembled into a pgu because each one has a number and went and they checksum so it\u0027s kind of like UDP okay and there\u0027s a flag that says this is the last one of a PDU so if there\u0027s a nice "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:47",
    "text": "short little Datagram don\u0027t only be one Datagram with the last one flag turned on okay every Datagram has a TLV there are eight ones that we know now and the thing that\u0027s interesting is this used to be called an encapsulation act and now it\u0027s called an act because it will be used for more than encapsulations and the sessions are made here because open is act so it now becomes you send me an open I send you an open each of us act to each other we now have established a session instead of this kind of Spacey thing where I got it open so I have a think I can talk to you but I don\u0027t really know so we now have sessions and this is this diagram I\u0027ve been showing all along why is that one behind that\u0027s exciting okay um I click again again whatever okay so the hello has changed in that it is now acknowledging that we have to send it by a multicast because if I wake up and there are lots of devices out there I don\u0027t know who I\u0027m going to so I send the hello multicast all responses will be unicast but there\u0027s an issue that there are multiple kinds of multicast the two most interesting to us and we\u0027re getting Paul\u0027s condoms help on deciding them are does this multicast Ethernet frame Pierce a switch or not in other words it is it only good on this Ethernet point-to-point link or can it go across switches and that we presume we will make that a configuration option for the device okay you get a hello responding with an open the establish a session etc et-cetera open has my name your name account of attributes in case anyone forgets the list of attributes goes here and we don\u0027t know what those attributes mean only the operator does and they could be what flavor coffee they like or anything they wish as mentioned there\u0027s an authentication blob get into this a little more later one thing that could "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:47",
    "text": "happen is I could wake up find myself that I\u0027ve got a TPM go over my management interface and ask the TPM God in the sky to sign a certificate with that and I put the signed certificate chain down here otherwise I could take my public key and just stick it in there and we do what\u0027s known in security community is tofu which is trust on first use I call it marriage on first date but that\u0027s another matter it\u0027s not something I\u0027m very fond of we have the local and remote IDs which can be an ASN a concatenation of 36 identifiers Zoar anything you want I suggest they be uniform and unique in the data center okay the attributes can be anything as I said the authentication data might be a certificate chain failure to authenticate if there is a nonzero authentication field is a failure of the session and you start again as I said open gets an act other things are going to get ax what act is the type of PDU that is being act so it will be an open PD you type here for an open that will be an encapsulation PDU etc okay if I don\u0027t receive an act there\u0027s a time out retransmit failure count I\u0027m sure the transport people will give us good and put on this in other words exponential back-off and put your finger in your idea etcetera etcetera okay so once we have each other\u0027s Max and we\u0027ve acknowledged them we have open we can start to keep lives between the two okay there\u0027s no protein in this keep alive okay so I think they should probably be infrequent on the order of seconds or a minute but the operator knows of course it will be configurable and so on and so forth this is to be differentiated from BFD which is probably running quite quickly okay one of the reasons i think this one will be slow is if you choose to do security you\u0027ll see later on that this should be signed and signing and verification are expensive operations especially in devices that have high out degree okay so now we\u0027ve met each other and we have our max we have our noted your IDs we can extend encapsulations and they all have the same header which is what\u0027s their length what\u0027s the count of encapsulations and the list of encapsulations "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:48",
    "text": "and all the encapsulations kind of look like this there\u0027s the count there\u0027s a flag that says is this a primary address on this interface is this a loopback address reachable via this interface and then in this case we\u0027re doing an ipv4 address and there can be lots of them okay a big change from the previous draft is an encapsulation message of type T replaces all previous encapsulations of type T so you don\u0027t have to remember and you don\u0027t have to worry about oh did I miss an update and that they\u0027re done so you\u0027re maintaining this changing state no here\u0027s the list take it and shut up okay so as I said is this an interface of primary is it Marv and one should be marked as a primary and it can be marked as a loopback ipv6 ninety-six more bits no magic MPLS has a list of MPLS labels reach encapsulation not very exciting a list of labels okay use multiple encapsulations to allow one label to be associated with multiple there\u0027s a v6 encapsulation that\u0027s about the protocol I will not go and bother you with the section that goes in how this is pushed up to be GPL s through BH appear through the BGP LS API to be GP as SPF because you\u0027ve gotten to hear that three times already that must be boring it is unchanged but we\u0027re looking thank you Eric to said security and what we think at the moment when we talked about the threat model was so Randy AC Linden you see I I haven\u0027t read the latest version but are you are you still using reusing the BGP LS attribute space for anything you\u0027re not anymore you\u0027re defining all your own so you\u0027re gonna have your own space stolen right out of B G but there\u0027s a lot of things in here like the certificate that aren\u0027t in there do the certificate but this is this slide right okay okay what is the precision the purpose of the security the threat model we have here is are you on the link the droid I was talking to yesterday oh not exchanging security stuff up at the SPF level okay okay so there\u0027s no that\u0027s not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:53",
    "text": "I know that okay we\u0027re talking about that okay so you\u0027re calling these encapsulations that different terminology than in BGP LS how you\u0027re still read but you\u0027re you\u0027re calling them encapsulations but you\u0027re reusing all the TL PS from bt pls right not whole sorry some of them like that no no but but no but the link all the linked identifiers from the BG pls i\u0027m familiar i have implemented all of them I\u0027ve implemented DGP uh no not all of them I switch one it\u0027s okay but but you are using the same space the same IANA register okay okay just stole it right out of DGP SPF care can beat you to death on it okay is it although it\u0027s actually before you okay Randy does the change in the structures I counted eight or so different changes from the last time when implemented what\u0027s the timing on it are you see seeing the level of time that you need in order to make sure you you get the appropriate second or subsection failover currently it\u0027s configurable be that\u0027s the kind of thing why where you do BFD we\u0027re not trying to supplant BFD I\u0027m talking Randi instead of the instead of the BFD hello the upward pushed to the BGP API to let you know that you do have a neighbor in your original presentation in ITF 102 you were considering how long it took to go upwards and you had that question whether this process would be fast enough in this current implementation have you seen that same concern or has that concern been resolved based on implementation experience we haven\u0027t gotten that foreign implementation yet but we learn it down at the weak layer we push it up under at that point just looking for feedback no implementations not that far along yet okay okay because I simply going to answer to Asus question it\u0027s think of this as a sourcing that outs for bgp SPF so we wouldn\u0027t be even using any of the LS registries would simply source it to create the necessary information for Camden I\u0027ve got a couple "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:59",
    "text": "basic protocol questions is it 1 TL v perp edu or or multiple one okay that\u0027s simple second question was you are allowing the PD use or the message be used to span multiple frames you have a number your act didn\u0027t have any kind of number in it though so how seem like we might need to look at the AG yeah that\u0027s the whole PD you you\u0027re responsible for assembling if you can\u0027t assemble and or don\u0027t have a PD you in a certain amount of time with the light with the L bit on okay so then you timeout it\u0027s one at a time okay yeah it\u0027s simple okay and then my last comment I mean question I may be more of a comment you have a version number in there and in the draft you say if it\u0027s not this version then it\u0027s a failure and I\u0027m wondering if you want to reconsider that for something that might allow for some sort of forward compatibility or some you know we\u0027ve done this before in other protocols and what we do is the replacement RFC makes the liberalization of the version number and says it can now be 0 and or 1 and this updates this RFC but the old guy what I\u0027m advocating is that it\u0027s possible it does put some burden on future versions but it is possible for an old version to talk to a new version if you specify we do this a lot in 802 that one it but again it\u0027s taking so nasty note oh okay cuz I\u0027ll forgetting I\u0027ve already forgotten sorry Rob austin i just want to gently speak against that last point um generally it\u0027s fairly straightforward to say you know i i\u0027m version 0 I understand version 0 version 1 can understand both it\u0027s not impossible but it\u0027s challenging to be forward compatible with something that hasn\u0027t been specified yet and we\u0027re trying to keep this stupid so that\u0027s kind of why we ended up with the way what way it is there\u0027s really strong reason to do forward compatibility but stuff I don\u0027t understand yeah we can look at it but I\u0027m skeptical yeah I understand it does put a constraint on going forward though typically what we do is is version 0 if at version 0 of implementation receives a version 1 PD you he only looks at version 0 fields so now there\u0027s it kind of restricts you to amazing knowing where those fields are because they\u0027re the same place they were in versions 0 that well then this one said then if you have an incompatibility where you change the PDU such that these two guys cannot talk to one another then you either have different protocol or you know you go with week what you\u0027re talking about now the reason why I\u0027m suggesting this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:59",
    "text": "because you have the requirement that your hello protocol will continue on because you need to find guys that might be on a multi drop link good so if I needed to talk to a version one Guyana version zero guy that happened to be in this thing I\u0027m going to be sending multiple hellos of different versions all you know so you kind of it just kind of creates some overhead so it\u0027s just thought but I understand the challenge but it\u0027s worth considering so I\u0027ll send you a note on that worth considering as I think the operative phrase and we\u0027ll consider serious level that\u0027s an ugly it\u0027s an ugly back to security okay I posted a threat novel to the list back at ITF -1 and nobody responded I said don\u0027t up how many operators are there here don\u0027t you care oh they all cared well then respond what I suggested was that the one threat is spurious devices appearing on your network somebody plugging a hostile laptop in etc etc in which case the concern is is this the Droid I was talking to earlier in other words I had a Hello exchange whether that came from a joint certificate or made up naked public key is I thought I knew who I was talking to am I still talking to you okay so there was not a clear need for confidentiality just integrity and continued Authority so what we\u0027re thinking is the open can have a public key plus whatever it could be wrapped with certificate stuff obtained from the provisioning server in the sky whatever the public key is signed with the private key on open that\u0027s proof of possession right there in other words you know that the person issuing the open that that has the private key matching the public key we don\u0027t want to have kinky key exchanges etc that\u0027s expensive complex etc so just pay 512 bits per frame to put a 255 19 signature on the end of everything I\u0027m an operator I charge by the traffic 255 bits is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:02",
    "text": "great right and our PD is are easily extended so no harm the keepalive would get a sequence number which cranks each keep alive and probably other things would get to keep a lot a get a sequence number too so that would narrow the window for a replay attack want me to drill down on that belittle everybody\u0027s either bored or understands replay attacks okay what\u0027s not here is we probably dump the checksum because validating the key is sufficiently equivalent okay maybe add a proof of possession challenge-response PDU pair so we drift on even though I\u0027m fairly assured no replays happening do you really have the private key for that public key it\u0027s a cheap PD you pair desperately would like some feedback on this one before we dig it in also do we want to put this in the LSB our pro any lsle protocol do we want to different protocol drafts Alvaro\u0027s looking at you now you had a lot of Thunder I wrote anything security should go into the same draft right so we know what you\u0027re protecting the protocol with and I just want to say another thing as you consider this and I know that as you said no one has necessarily giving you a lot of feedback but also think of not just when this is used because this is the base protocol spec not when this is used and only in the data center but if whatever use be used somewhere else right so for example from fidelity right you mentioned that maybe there\u0027s not a need for confidentiality in the data center that is the data center that what\u0027s confidential about these data I\u0027m just I\u0027m just saying so yeah what I need you to do is you don\u0027t think there\u0027s anything combinational about this data like tend to agree then please justify that in the traffic right so that you know it\u0027s easy to not just ask why isn\u0027t there you know this and the security but to understand why you have the justification behind that that way we should avoid you know this question is are we willing to repeat too many times in Kuwait the current set cons and the current non secure draft says this should not be used outside a closed wall Veda center because you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "don\u0027t have authentication okay this will help you towards that do you if people are thinking of using this on the when do you want confidentiality what\u0027s your threat model please tell me a security geek without a threat model is like a horse without a bicycle okay this is now we get into the boring stuff that we had from last time nothing has changed so I\u0027m kind of at the end of it I\u0027d really like people\u0027s feedback on whether we do this at all what\u0027s the threat model behind it do you want confidentiality do we separate this into two versions of the protocol or is this okay and remember this means every PD you as a signature calculation and verification we\u0027re specifically thinking of an algorithm which is fairly cheap to do well fairly to 5519 to 5519 2:55 19 oh sorry it\u0027s a crypto algorithm it\u0027s not RSA Bravo sign again that actually segues into you a question I was going to ask how many people in the room have any clue about the difference between signatures message authentication checks ons and that sort of thing okay a few so I want to spend 30 seconds on why we did the design we did it boiled down to a choice between doing the stupidest simplest possible signature over the messages or how to do some kind of complicated setup to negotiate a session key and if we were willing to negotiate a session key we could do something like H Mac instead of signatures the problem is when you start looking at it and you start asking people who know what they\u0027re doing the advice oils down to either use TLS which is kind of heavy weight for this or by the time you\u0027re done doing all the things you need to do you will have reused TLS you just aren\u0027t admitting that so we chose to skip all of that the price tag for that is we actually have to compute signatures on every message instead of doing you know just one setup for a session at the beginning so it\u0027s a deliberate design trade-off to keep this now as simple and stupid as we could Acey Linda is is this only in your presentation or is it in the draft now this this whole security the whole you how you bootstrap the open "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:03",
    "text": "and then there is the hole in the draft okay so if we were going to think more about this we just download the presentation of candidates to spoon form oh well they\u0027re a while there\u0027s - there\u0027s the open there\u0027s what you do on the open and then there\u0027s once you get the public key and open this is that tells this I mean we can start to sketch it out if given a little encouragement right Paul you come from the other side what do you think do you think authentication repeated authentication is worth the cost I guess I\u0027d be concerned about signing something the same permanent credential for the duration and the life of the product you know I mean I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s you want to renegotiate the credential well you know that you didn\u0027t want to create a session key so to speak but that one of the reasons for that is so that you\u0027re not using your primary key all the current spec says that if I\u0027m running along in a session and I receive another open from you oh my god that means probably you have been reset but it also says do not destroy state so that could be finessed into a key change a selenium so there\u0027s nothing to say you couldn\u0027t you you couldn\u0027t use a different public private key at any time right I mean with this well just I mean I mean you need to open and agree with well why would you need to agreement you\u0027re giving your your you\u0027re giving them the public key and they\u0027re using that you\u0027re giving them the public key out of a public/private key pair and then you\u0027re using that to verify the signing of the message so I don\u0027t see why why you couldn\u0027t change it at any time it would be up to the sender to do that it just has to be specified that receiving this change does not cause you to drop all the encapsulations you know don\u0027t drop state but I\u0027m still thinking about oh I\u0027ve got state with u4 v4 and v6 address families I receive a new open from you I receive a new V for encapsulation that is or is not the same as the last one it replaces it entirely I don\u0027t receive anything about b6 how long do I keep my v6 state not clear other questions other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:10",
    "text": "answers thank you maybe one question from from a chair perspective here so the document itself you know how how stable you think it is at this point in time you think you see like many big changes going on forward not unless we do security oh I think it\u0027s fairly close we have the protocol in the condition that I believe we can do a reasonable state diagram oh we have a prototype implementation coming out that we plan to beg management to allow us to release but if they don\u0027t they don\u0027t that\u0027s their choice that\u0027s why they\u0027re called management and what we really need is more eyeballs on it okay okay that\u0027s you so the reason I\u0027m asking is because it\u0027s okay you know it\u0027s most of the room here now you have a schedule we understand we\u0027re engineers we get told about the schedule every day just time the scheduler said of relatively flexible so so the reason I\u0027m asking is because between you know the last couple of you know the last ITF meeting and where we are right now there have been a few things you know being discussed from you know a BGP you neighbor shape you know discovery so we\u0027ve been discussing actually you know on how to you know how to progress some of these elements going forward so the chairs from you know LSB are denied all have been sitting together together with the area director and also during the the idea into the meeting here this topic actually has been you know discussed about like auto-discovery and the clearly actually is like an like an evident interest you know this particular topic from many working groups so the next couple of slides are sort of like you know I\u0027ve stolen from the good work from from Jon Secada you know what he actually use during is IDR interim meeting and and at the end of you know the four or five sites what I have here I\u0027m gonna go over it very quickly I would like the plan you know our our wave forward with this technology itself so so in idea or actually you know it was discussed that indeed you know there\u0027s clearly like you know interest you know from Alana working groups actually work on this and also within Alice VR itself you know technology like it\u0027s not really shorter now a little bit oh you know you know shorter for this so we can potentially not plot something in and also from analyst view on perspective you know I really think that some of the deliverables of what we have and the embodiment of that and the real operation needs to have something like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:11",
    "text": "this because otherwise it\u0027s gonna be very hard to do a technology like LS VR so now looking into all the different options we have and they\u0027re like many different ways of you know skinning the cat hair our area director has been very smart and I realized you know why do we need that you know if we can have like you know the only one that would be better from a technology you know progress perspective and it would make things you know easier for you know for everybody else so that\u0027s a very good you know vision in a very good view now at the same time we also need to look into where we are what LS VR is doing and some of the other working groups and because we actually are like you know developing something relatively new and from that perspective our you know technologies we use going forward maybe a little bit more than new it also okay so now at the same time like an idea it\u0027s like a whole set of different kind of proposals being you know talked about you know in this space of auto-discovery so you\u0027re still comparing you know and only what would be best for them now all of these different kind of are all these different proposals you know they can be like mixed and matched in different ways so they haven\u0027t really converged into like what is the best for IDR so they still need to compare like okay you know what are the similarities what are the differences how to use it best and how to progress those things so they\u0027re not there yet so they haven\u0027t really converged and it\u0027s a little bit unclear like you know when actually there will be like a convergence you know in their direction now at the same time if you look into the requirement itself from all of these different themes you see like one particular requirement and the one which actually every you know all of these actually have is that you know it\u0027s mainly to actually trigger you know the bootstrap on almost single hop ebgp that is the main common thing now of course if you look into all of them and you put you know all of the requirements into a union it\u0027s a much bigger pool of things it\u0027s something like you know like carrying you know buckets of water towards the sea it\u0027s a lot of requirements so that being said so from an idea perspective and again I\u0027ve copy you know these slides here from from the audio working group so they haven\u0027t really converged you know which direction to go yet so there are a lot of strong opinions on where to go and what to do they are going to be planning like an interim meeting to talk about this now you know I\u0027m not really sure it makes a lot of sense from an LS VR perspective to actually wait upon them until idea or actually converge to something because also the requirements are going to be vastly different from our requirements so Randy has like you know in the last couple of you know LS we our meetings been talking about requirements and you know what we actually need so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:14",
    "text": "they see a cylinder Cisco Systems the one place where there\u0027s an intersection here is your point because it reuses the beep the BG pls TLV space you need to have an agreement to be able to I don\u0027t think I think there\u0027s there may be like you said there\u0027s different requirements more requirements you\u0027re going to be able to have to be able to add at least attributes and just an agreement that we\u0027d be able to buy we I mean this working group use the same eye in our space and registries ok Randy Bush my reading so far is the BG pls space covers everything from RTP to jabber um I think my read is the IDR sees a problem coming not a big one but something that would be nice to sell they say this happening over here it\u0027s still IDR is big and slow and has a large burden on their back that they have to carry and so I think they\u0027re watching and we\u0027ll figure it out or there will use something else and if they have input of course they should be taken very seriously right now they haven\u0027t given us much input and that\u0027s their prerogative so we\u0027re plotting along in our kind of stupid keep it simple way and we\u0027ll see what happens ok thank you so so so actually so so going you know further into this so what actually was discussed in IDR also and is that you know so Eleazar we right now and it\u0027s a proposal in in this particular working group and what we agreed actually you know with you know with the chest from idea is that you know if we you know plan to progress work further on in this working group here that it should not exclude you know the future requirements from from an idea of perspective so idea will also look into what LLC actually is doing and you know they\u0027ll actually know really assess you know together with the other you know proposals if these actually will satisfy their needs now they don\u0027t want it now that does not mean that IDR you know in the future will actually choose LLC B itself from you know from a neighbor ship discovery perspective just also keep in mind you know Ella Zoe is not really you know creating a navy ship or establishing in the neighbor ships at all it\u0027s just providing you the hoops with sufficient information to actually you know to regulate that particular that event itself now all of this being said so the thing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:15",
    "text": "what I would like to you know this you know proposed going forward is you know to understand you know just to maybe actually you know adopt this work you know in our working group so that is something what I would like to you know propose going forward I know the shorter you know it\u0027s a little bit you know on the adjacency of the shorter itself you know it probably has to what if you know to be modified a little bit so so my plan is to you know it\u0027s going forward to actually you know do like a working group and an adoption call for Ella Zoe unless there is like anybody in the room was like you know it\u0027s violently in disagreement with such you know they don\u0027t allow liquor Cisco so from the last update to this update we seen that there is a transport layer being introduced in Ella sorry there\u0027s fragmentation and reassembly coming in checksum was there but it\u0027s changed there are there is an open session and there is some kind of a session management aspect coming in randy also talked about protocol state machine there are a lot of interactions with other protocols like we have encapsulations exchange here but we also have are an Indy the hooks with PGP or whatever application is running on top they have not been specified as in matching details so I would suggest that the workgroup wait and look at those details before considering adoption capital arcus clearly I don\u0027t disagree I disagree with that comment the reason why we started off with Ellis OE was fundamentally because we say lldp cannot scale beyond certain package size and it can\u0027t scale because the ad information could extend beyond 1500 bytes so some of the things that you mentioned we\u0027re already as part of the design document that we wanted to started off with can\u0027t apply to Cisco Systems I brought the order discovery of the whole network not just your neighbors in on Monday and I was told very clearly that there is no order discovery required because data centers are planned and every piece that\u0027s put into the data center is put in there according to the plan and nothing needs to be discovered and this came from two people who actually build data centers to build massive scale data centers and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:16",
    "text": "I respect their opinion so is there any need at all for order discovery there\u0027s definitely need for verification I eat or Yahoo one of the guys that Jake was talking about there\u0027s definitely a need for verification of something is wired correctly there is not much need for it\u0027s not so much order discoveries verification so we\u0027re not looking for something that order discovers an automatic will start up every protocol Under the Sun magically we just need to know if something\u0027s wired correctly and if we get to know something is configured correctly ok cool extra verification but we don\u0027t need we actually don\u0027t want four protocols to start automatically because we test the network as we bring it up and unless the protocol will perform all of this testing like fire 20,000 pings down the link and make sure that it\u0027s all clean there\u0027s no errors etc then we wouldn\u0027t actually want the protocol to come up first thank you by the way I\u0027m cutting the liner no after Ignace I don\u0027t know about I wants to speak after that I don\u0027t think anybody is suggesting using this to bootstrap any protocols there is a wide range of how people build things out going at the example I used like to use for the extreme centralized in is Jupiter rising of course where everything is blown down to the device it wakes up on the management Network and it\u0027s told here is your world - Igor in the middle who has some of that but also wants to verify it by you told me that Mary was over there is she to folk who want to do fairly complete discovery not start protocols but fairly complete discovery so that the protocols which do start can then use those data I think all of those are reasonable places this is designed for the 2nd to the 3rd at Cisco so to answer K your point this could use IP UDP which is what one of the other proposal is doing and I have not seen and it could really do all the functionality without having the comm occasions leverage existing stuff our nd IP fragmentation reassembly out of that so I haven\u0027t really seen actual strong "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:17",
    "text": "reason for doing it at link level and not IEP lldp was from I Triple E so they could only do at that level but here at ITF we could do it on top of IP so I haven\u0027t seen a strong argument to do it at link level kale Patel arcus again I would suggest we are more than happy to discuss about some of these requirements but Randy has a good set of requirements document that I would suggest you take a look at it make that as a starting point and then we can have the conversations remembering okay I think I first of all I think there is environments which don\u0027t need auto discovery but there are environments where we do need auto discovery I think so from that point of view I think we need something to be enhanced from what we are whether it has to be done here or not I don\u0027t have a real strong opinion but I think it would be good to this guy to go through the list of all the auto denied the bootstrapping and auto discovery mechanism which were identified in your slides to see whether there is some additional requirements which we haven\u0027t captured it but I think the set which is defined here is pretty well defined in my view and as such it would make sense to continue this because I think it has a good base or a good foundation yeah so yeah I a synonym subscribe agreed I agree with women care I think there\u0027s a lot of different requirements I think this the fact that protocols like lldp exist is enough and CDP proprietary cisco discovery protocol is enough of a justification also even if you\u0027re just using it for verification that doesn\u0027t mean that you want your config templates you don\u0027t want something like this you don\u0027t have to have your you know you can think to templates clutter with a configuration of every neighbor on every link so there\u0027s even if you\u0027re verifying it and you know you\u0027re doing some level of verification this is still useful in the bigger data centers okay words of wisdom I guess two things one I do on my config templates to be cluttered because I don\u0027t want anything to be magically defaulted because magic defaults changed between code versions between vendors etc and shit breaks bad unfortunately but I do want to say something so we absolutely would you need order discovery from a verification perspective the question now is where do we want to order discover and what are the limitations of the current protocols so if for example LDP is limited to 1500 bytes at some point we might have 70 IP addresses on interface v4 v6 etc and it doesn\u0027t fit in 1500 bytes anymore we\u0027ve got a problem so we really should look "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:19",
    "text": "at what are the current scalability limits of discovery protocols and whether we see that we could exceed those because at some point we might be discovering every label that\u0027s available in your peer and at this point is 1500 bytes enough I\u0027m assuming the next thing you\u0027re gonna say is you\u0027re gonna ask a question right we started the discussion by saying that we\u0027re gonna say that when one says that in one of the other slides that this are slicing the yard that John made he said that I suggested that we had one protocol I still would prefer that because you know it\u0027s easier for everyone to do one thing however as he finished saying in this slide the recognition from the chairs is that we don\u0027t delay the work right that we go ahead now with means is that if this working group decides to move ahead with LS we there is a probability or a possibility at least that we might end up with more than one discovery board all right there\u0027s a possibility that IDR will say okay let\u0027s so e to discover you know b2b sessions in general but there\u0027s also possibility that IDR will say I will use something else so we need to keep that in mind yeah that\u0027s the decision we go that\u0027s the way we go one of the things that we did discuss somewhere I think maybe it wasn\u0027t the IDR interim is that of course what that happens it would be nice for BGP to be able to get discovery information from any of the protocols right and still be able to come up so one thing that we need to keep clear and I think if I remember it correctly but if not you can check the minutes from the idea meeting it was just there that maybe in a separate document somewhere you know that type of information was documented so that we know that we need X information to boot up a or to start a BGP session and so that the protocols are discovering to provide that information right otherwise we end up with not just multiple protocols with protocols that don\u0027t do the same thing or even have similar functionality we had also discussed just to give everyone the whole picture the fact that because the initial interest was in this working group that and assuming that LS OE is the one thing that we would have chosen that of course we could start to work here you have the the first you know the base protocol and the initial requirements and then other people like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:21",
    "text": "IDR or whoever else wants to go use it this covered protocol could add that so what that means and of course Randi and the other authors know this is that the protocol obviously has to not just has to satisfy initially the requirement from this working group but has to of course be accessible to satisfy whatever else right this is Ben obviously I\u0027m just saying it just to make sure that it wouldn\u0027t knows that so I think that\u0027s it I just wanted to you know provide that that had other background and two other things that that we considered so that you think about it when you make your decision on what you want to have a question has anybody actually done the analysis of what\u0027s missing between lgp and what LS OE provides and if it\u0027s possible to retrofitted and/or Rev to LTP version 2 or whatever because I think all of us would rather have fewer things on box that start up and try to do the same thing at the same time so is the goal for LS OE to provide every bit of data that lldp has and then do more why not why not just replace it it should not explode roof of termination LDP is a pretty rich etc protocol you really want to do all that all over again I yes it\u0027s a perfectly valid answer and we can start talking about you know I\u0027m sure all the chairs want us to complete this so they can get LS we are out the door and then we can do a version two that tries to replace all of our old opinion that\u0027s possibly a perfectly valid pad my concern is so if you\u0027re going to have LS o e and lldp inevitably leads to discovery protocols I guarantee that at least one of us large content dies is gonna have to start writing stuff that chews up frickin sales you know and the second you start doing that all of us will it\u0027s a lot of work all of us are gonna wonder why there are two lies in there one thing to roll them all and what happens when they disagree because at some point you\u0027re going to change an interface parameter and one of them will pick it up first so caleb patel arcus when we started off at this work it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s a classic rathole if you start with that question in sense that\u0027s a valid question but the kind of information we wanted to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:21",
    "text": "exchange was a configuration information and maybe some network related information so we weren\u0027t looking per se to replace everything that is there in lldp and all an argument it in Ellis way but we wanted to carry this information which is specifically auto-discovery related now protocol is designed and it\u0027s quite flexible so if someone comes and says wire and - I want to do with one he could very well do it but there are good reasons to not do that so what happens when lldp says interface has one set of parameters and other so he says something else because I mean you have a class of Christ\u0027s condition so I\u0027m thinking you know we have to look into scheduling here a little bit also I\u0027m not really sure if you know this discussion can may be taken offline I have sympathy with that but all I\u0027m saying is trying to replace a long VP is not something you want to do in the short term certainly willing to discuss it in the midterm that make you happier so before we go up to another two minutes a little running ad again you just know that this works is not charter for the working group now they always laugh with me yeah but it\u0027s not shorter or anywhere else either now again with the intent of not delayed anymore or anything else and because there has been a lot of efficient this working group yeah we\u0027re gonna go fine because it\u0027s a layer 2 protocol the other thing that we have to do is we need to liaised with the Arab League you know Paul has obviously been helping us he doesn\u0027t completely run theatrically just some pieces of it bad so we have to really ace with that with them tomorrow actually there is a coordination meeting no there\u0027s two meetings one is tomorrow morning which is a regular coordination meeting that there\u0027s a list of action items and stuff like that Gunther is gonna go to the meeting tomorrow and it\u0027s going to tell the I Triple E people what burp think you\u0027re doing don\u0027t see what they say right we might need more liaison so I don\u0027t know what but for now that\u0027s that\u0027s it if the direction even in a further version is to go and replace a load EP or not replace all the beads we have the same functionality as LDP there\u0027s something important that we need to tell the intrabody because you know that point they might say sure do whatever you want but they could all say no no no no no we can do a little TP version too or I don\u0027t know whatever comes up that doesn\u0027t have the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:21",
    "text": "same limitations that you know something else so this is an important thing that we need to consider and that we need to tell them sooner rather than later right we can\u0027t wait three years from now and say oh you know what that protocol that we already did we\u0027re not gonna change the scope and do something else right so either the scope is this sort of the scope is that or the scope is something else but this is something that has to be clear with them so as conser said i we should probably take this to the list [Music] sorry Randy again I don\u0027t do liaisons I\u0027m already married um and my job here is to make the internet better if I Tripoli wants to take up some of that load I am infinitely lazy right I\u0027m perfectly happy I would even work with itu-t they would be helpful okay so listening to everything here you know what has been said so I\u0027ll be taking to the list of action you know do like a working group you know adoption call for this work now that being said the working group adoption call will be you know around requirements we have four LS V R so some of the comments of what I heard like very valid but they actually you know are coming off from from the perspective from an ID our perspective and that is discussed you know which needs to be held like you know the working group because as you know what we\u0027ll discuss during the interim an idea is like they may or may not know qu the same solution as us hopefully you know what we\u0027re going to be choosing will be you know simple enough and will allow extensibility it would be helpful for demo I\u0027ll for idea also and that is definitely something we need to targets for and that\u0027s what Reni was mentioning also you know having a bit more eyeballs around you know Eliza we would be very helpful you know progressing the work and making sure that actually you know does not exclude any future extensibility and often dry you know to help new working groups you know to progress with their work so that is you know that\u0027s the future planning so I think now we have a see so if you can stand on the star and not next to the mic I promise to take less than a fifth to the time it took for that LS o II working group adoption call so I just did an update on this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:21",
    "text": "before the IETF and the one thing I added is on the we got a head of directorate call on on the base document they cares me talking about the bgp SPF and ask for discussion of purity models and we heard that to the applicability draft so I put a section in there discuss seen the three sparse peering actually the three sparse peering advantages and the models for those I put those in there and those are for you know the bandages and parallel links densely mesh data centers and talking about the controller based deployments and the next revision there\u0027s going to be a discussion of BGP policy and submit I got some editorial changes and anything else so it\u0027s it if it Ida I\u0027m going to on the next edition and I our next revision I\u0027d like to get routing Directorate review simply get some import and anybody has any suggestions of anything that\u0027s missing from that if not we can call it done until at least for this version like 45 minutes I probably wrapped up in another five minutes so Kate but LM gonna give an update on LS beer draft was last updated in September right before they entered in we\u0027ve incorporated comments from Oscar and Artie Jeter in a fairly stable say I\u0027m starting to look at implementations listed out the feedback here\u0027s a feedback from Fred Baker thinks it\u0027s ready there was a minor net in section five point four which was taken care of another review from Dan frost one of the concerns he listed was he thinks BGP is not designed for the general purpose database distribution this was more suggestion to 80s to look for a strategic long-term solution peirong models were thought to be a little more brief we\u0027ve had a text for that we\u0027ve had a text again on the usage of sequence numbers he thought he you it would travel the help with some examples that has been already taken care of there are tons of timers that have been used in BGP you you know clearly as part of this extension some of this timers may need to be augmented or may not need to be used at all and his suggestion was to clearly list them out in manageability "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:22",
    "text": "section and talk about what are those timelines that are impacted and explained possible implications if you would sort of change them we have already done that as part of a separate manageability section here are the version two changes I\u0027m not going to go through them since I have already discussed this in past presentations but drafts pretty much in a stable State there is though one outstanding point that is worth discussing which is about explicit withdrawals very similar to max age LSA in OSPF should be in corporate this should be not if we incorporate this do we want to do it as part of the base pack or do we want to take it as a separate draft up for the debate would be interested in getting feedback on the mailing list read Ann\u0027s comment on is this really the Universal transport protocol for database have you considered DNS at this point at this point any and every feedback is appreciated my snarky version of this is not a problem we\u0027re going to solve this wait it\u0027s a problem which is why we pay the IAB and they don\u0027t deliver okay and indeed we have a distributed database problem in the IETF and elsewhere but I don\u0027t think we\u0027re gonna solve it in time to get this protocol out the door a coelom Cisco Systems and a co-author on this this this is this is because the reason for this is and a lot of people have brought up we knew this from the start that if a link goes down and you just use the withdrawal mechanism in BGP you won\u0027t quit using that link until every copy of that is removed from your BGP local rib so or local beer if the BG period now we don\u0027t really want to change more of the BGP the BGP machinery to try and maintain one copy there\u0027s all sorts of things you could do with some invention but we really want to move other than just doing bgp SPF we want to leave BGP alone and not raise the implementation bar for this by adding all this new invention and also we want to not only implementation the possibility of introducing things that don\u0027t work we just want to do bgp SPF now this is this would be a very simple thing to do where rather than if a link goes down you would advertise that it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:24",
    "text": "down but and for some period of time and then you would withdraw the link just so that you\u0027d start recognize the failure with the first advertisement that reaches you which would have a higher sequence number you know we have the sequence number rather than the last you\u0027d need to add an attribute or some additional information to carry this if need be hello Victor coursing had off on this one it\u0027s not actually on this slide I do it was a slide couple slides ago I\u0027m just a comment on the comment about you know is BGP the best protocol to use etc I just want to from an operator at perspective I think a lot of people forget why operators chose B to be in the first place it wasn\u0027t necessarily because it was the best protocol for something operational simplicity and commonality was in fact one of the drivers and I think a lot of folks forget that\u0027s why it was chosen it wasn\u0027t because it\u0027s necessarily more performant than something else mm-hmm it wasn\u0027t before and it wasn\u0027t because scientifically they decided he was necessarily the best thing to use it was it was there it was common it simplified operations and a lot of the things that drive cost and organizations and that\u0027s that\u0027s actually the main reason why us and a lot of other folks used it barmy yeah not a lot of noise but I mean believer not operations is one of the highest costs in most organizations okay thank you so yeah so Faust yep we have time no but but going forward actually know with respect to this work so one of the elements that worries me a little bit with respect to this particular draft has been you know the silence Ness on the working group Amy you know email lists you know with respect to commands and feedback and additions and this kind of you know little things that\u0027s a bit unfortunate now that being said both the you know operational directors review actually you know when to know reasonably well the routing you know director to review went reasonably well and the Rani wants to say something um I\u0027m known for voting with my feet I\u0027m writing a draft to support it okay so Veda was going to is that where was I going to yeah so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:24",
    "text": "so for actually no further review you know this work what I was thinking about is to actually know launch like like a working group you know last call on this document itself now while doing that so that is something we will start doing on the working group you know email list you know as a first step now something which ones you know distributed also between you know the different routing checks is actually you know to look into the requirement of actually having like an old working implementation so that is something you know we still need to look into if you actually need that for LS VR yes or no and that is discussion you know which we you know need to be having at some point in time you know before pushing this this work further you know off the working group last call you know to our size genes one right so there is definitely something now LS we always like new technology I\u0027m not really sure that we actually need to have like two implementations of this like what we have in an ideal perspective because idea the assumption there is that she will actually need to be speaking between all different kinds of vendors because operators have all different kinds of index while the major use case scenario for this is to running data centers and that will problem probably often result like you know one vendor doing most of the work of their so that problem is not that we don\u0027t need to have like you know one implementation you know which you know which you know as like something running like this so that is something that we will be discussing you know further running you know in the background also but I will be launching of working group last call for this I will expect and only desire I will actually expect to see lots of people saying like why it is good why it is bad things need to be changed if it is just like like 500 plus ones I\u0027m sorry that it\u0027s not going to fly it will stick you know it will stay where it is really push again I really don\u0027t know how many vendors we have in the iij data centers but a friend of mine here in the state\u0027s sitting near me says in his little data center he has three vendors okay so I wouldn\u0027t mind seeing two interoperable implementations and it also means it\u0027s it\u0027s quite uh you know it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s a it\u0027s a gating requirement in that case I understand the problem but I would like to encourage other people Jacob and I could go on to join the party okay so also you know I like that question also in the working group last call just to understand you know what the general perception is from operators on what the requirement there is you know from a gating perspective I\u0027m open to anything not do anything but like you know to a few things and I\u0027m willing to learn I think we\u0027re definitely one at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:24",
    "text": "least to interoperable implementations at least okay yes right now we have three tomorrow might have five and it would be nice to know that the stuff I did if I\u0027m if there\u0027s only one implementation then de-facto that implementations bugs become the standard and we really would like for there to be two so they could discover their bugs pretty fast anybody else any comments otherwise we gonna close the meeting okay cool thank you thanks everybody [Music] [Music] [Music] yes "
  }
]