[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:22",
    "text": "so um while we're waiting for others we should get some notes takers looking for volunteers well it's one after should we get started nancy you there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:13",
    "text": "okay well i will kick it off and we can get started so thanks everybody for joining the virtual interim we're at um this is uh being recorded and uh just a reminder uh in terms of the note well that we're i think everyone's familiar with the with the ip rules for this meeting so they they apply and we're going to jump into the agenda so i guess first off we need to get volunteers to take notes otherwise we can't hold the meeting and looks like nancy's trying to get unmuted anybody able to take notes for us today can you guys hear me yep good although your your my microphone icon says it's muted so i don't know how we're hearing you if you're muted i don't know my microphone says it's unmuted okay my voice is still a little shaky testing mine so um still looking for volunteers to take notes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "and then we can move on now did you post the um the link for the sorry my brain is still foggy for the notes uh it's uh if you if you're you could you can use the note taking tool if you want yeah that's what i mean if you can post the link on the chat so carl's um got it is that carl does that mean you can uh take notes for us maybe we can get one more volunteer i don't know guy federico can you take notes no we can't hear you carl uh this is russ i will uh okay thanks russ thanks okay so um back to the agenda we basically have two items on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "agenda one is to review what what we think are potentially uh the eat blocker list um the chairs went through the archive and found uh issues that potentially are blockers maybe they're not maybe they've been addressed already uh but we're going to want to go through that list and then we have uh five five minutes for an update on the milestones and then five minutes for open mic time are there any changes to the agenda that anybody wants to propose yeah i uh put together put a together a presentation where like a status update presenter was that on the agenda can you present um it's not on the agenda if we have time we can go through that oh you you requested me to put that together right so uh we uh we're looking for just the list of blockers not in a not a status update so we we have that list here we'll just go we'll just go through the list that we have uh okay um i mean the the status update is just uh it's kind of related uh that in that way but okay yeah maybe we get through the list quickly and and we have some time for that okay um so so if you're anyone that's been you know to be clear the point is to address the blockers that that's what the presentation is is about um it's not anything anything else i don't know if you looked at it or not but um i i did look at it and um you know i think it makes sense to just work through the mail archive so that we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "can uh be focused on uh you know what's in what's there what the threads are and and and we can all work from that context if that's okay yes yep and just to add to that uh lawrence i'm sure you'll have some comments to add as the chairs take consensus and so it would be important to hear your comments as well as everyone else's just so that the working group understands that there's a fair process and that the chairs are assessing consensus so that's why ned will lead this thank you we appreciate your work okay so um so everyone's on the same page there was a an email that was posted to the list on september 9th which is titled possible blocking issues for eat working group last call and there's basically just uh um you can see there's a you can a listing a numbered listing of of um uh you know items that had been posted to the list and we wanted to go through that list and and assess consensus so uh if you can open up that one open up that window and bring that message up that would be helpful so the first on our list is is has to do with you a ueid uniqueness guarantee this was um from our security director review excuse me ned could you project the list as you're looking at it so with l where you are thanks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:25",
    "text": "stop sharing okay so how does this work people see what i'm sharing right so the so there's uh if you go to if you follow the link then it'll take you into the document there and there's it's basically broken down into paragraphs so about the third fourth pair let's see fifth paragraph down there's a discussion about the ueid uh guarantee and and the question here is you know the documents uh seems to imply that relying parties need a guarantee that the uad is unique there's a there's an appendix that reports to calculate the collision probability of the of the uead based on the number of bits the calculation only makes sense if the uads are chosen with uniform randomness this the onus is apparently on the entire manufacturer on the entity manufacturer and the probability of this being done correctly is lower than the chance of collision if it were done correctly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:05",
    "text": "so that was the the feedback and um it's this assessment here is is that do we think that this is still an issue can we essentially disposition it or do we need to rely on some other approach and lawrence pointed out in the response to to this list that he says that the uad is something we have to live with unless we rely entirely on registry based ids so is this still an issue is that are we okay with this dispositioning is it more importantly is it an is it a blocker at this it's guy this seems like a common way to solve this problem right this doesn't seem controversial to me other other other other opinions does that sound right it sounds like to me i have no problem with you yeah okay all right so the next one has to do with self-asserted claims so this is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "the document says that the entity may make security claims about itself another entity can sign those claims a third entity can verify the signature uh it's difficult to fathom the ex the expected use environment though why should a third party assume that the signer is trustworthy why is the trustworthy why is it trustworthy for evaluating the claims for the first party what what are the responsibilities of the signer how does the relying party let the other parties know what attributes it needs and how are these trust relationships discovered maintained updated revoked et cetera so that was the concern um so lawrence replied to that and said we believe that we have addressed this in draft 15 by making strong reference to rats architecture early in the document so readers and familiar know how claims are asserted um so the so the question is does the rats are the issues that are being brought up are they completely addressed by the rats architecture or is there something else that's that's not addressed and the it starts out saying starts out with asserting a concern about the the ability the idea that a claim can be self-asserted and so so does the do you think that the architecture document completely addresses that i guess that's the question and there's a comment in the chat from dave okay and this makes sense he's uh having a hard time following the issues without seeing the text on the screen so could we go to the text that describes the issue to help the discussion okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "thank you did you want to speak it sounds like you're oh you dropped okay so here's the here's the email um i'll highlight the this part of the text that is generating that issue yeah i don't know if you can hear me i just tried to reset my browser um so now thank you for sharing that part um but i was kind of responding to ned you're asking do we doc the review was on draft 13 and i don't know how to answer that do we think that it is fine without having the text that changed between 13 and 15 on the screen that's what i meant to be talking about um and so that's what i don't know i've not seen lawrence's slides i don't know if that's actually what was in lawrence's presentation but i don't know how to answer your question is what i'm trying to say so lawrence do you have that in your presentation or can you respond to those comments yeah so that the i mean my take you know eat isn't really doing anything in terms of trust of claims that's not in rats"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "architecture it's not you know it's not saying there are self-assertive claims and and it's really in fully in line with uh rats architecture so my perception of what happened here with uh this comment was the um i think hillary wasn't familiar with rat's architecture so that's why you know she asked all of these questions um so uh all that i did did you follow up with her and verify that or is that an assumption we're making it's an assumption um i did i did write a response uh to this when you know when the comments came out and i probably said something like that and i never received any response back from her so the the the change in the text is simply to point out very early on and very clearly that the whole you know basis of trust for you know attestation is described in rats architecture not in the e document okay so so given given that that the uh there was there were changes between 13 and 15 um does it make sense to for for the work group to take to review that again and and agree that that you know the wording that's in the e-document is aligned with the wording that's in the rats architecture and that addresses this this concern maybe we can take take that as a you know to be followed up item unless there's another other opinions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "here all the e document says is that basically it's one sentence and maybe two uh the what i just said um the e-document doesn't discuss the attestation trust model see the rats architecture okay so it's it's the reference there's no they're not even i wouldn't think there's an alignment issue there okay um so i'm gonna move on so there's also i just looked at the data tracker and draft 15 has not been your audio's breaking up couldn't hear you try it again i think so i think so try it again i want it can be posted to the chat that's the diffs between 15 and 13 just to make it easy for us to only look at the deltas is that something you have lawrence no carl and we can certainly do it you know after the meeting i don't know it doesn't sound like we can do it well while you guys talk i can try and do it sorry my voice is cutting up just give me a couple minutes you can get the data tracker to do it for you under the history tab even for uh the problem for us is that you can't because draft 15 isn't posted if 15 is posted you can do that but right now if you want the diffs between the github editors copy and the 13 posted one you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "can't get that from the data tracker you can by giving it the url if it's anywhere ah okay there may be a way to do that all right great maybe nancy can do that thank you okay so well that while nancy's working on that let's go to the next item so this is say uh so further down there's a question about the security level claim uh and this this also appears this issue appears uh further down on the on the list as well uh basically um the question is the the concern is there's no clear meaning about what this about security level and and that the three possible values little medium and high um seem vague and uh so about uh lawrence replied in in uh to the email for for item number three same thing that security level is being removed in draft 15. so is that the right resolution so certainly it removes it from the list so any discussion on that looks like a good thing thanks lawrence okay so the next one has to do with uh with a format versus protocol excuse my voice so the last the last little bit here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "the document asserts that it defines a network protocol for proving trustworthiness to a relying party i'm not sure that this is a protocol rather it's appears to be a format and so i guess there's potentially wording that uses the word protocol or asserts that there's a protocol involved in the e-draft um and so so the clear the clarification here is uh that this was addressed in draft 14 but there's other improvements planned for 15. so can you speak more to that uh what what other improvements and what was done in 14 and what is planned for 15 uh lawrence or or one of the other yeah so this text is a minor sentence in like appendix c in the discussion of e in relation to uh ieee i don't remember the number 802 the the uh or is it the tcg um standard one of the one of the uh it's not dice it's the other one um i'm not remembering i'm sorry so uh and it was just the the text is not normative or part of the introduction or anything like that and i believe the text is revised to say you know eat defines a message format for conveying claims to a relying party now um and it it's like i said it's not it's just part of an appendix of trying to um you know compare and contrast eat to another protocol or another uh scheme attestation scheme"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:04",
    "text": "so so you're saying that that that comparison still exists in the latest draft yes okay yeah it's it's comparison to eat right ieee 802 uh dot one a r um and uh a dev id okay which is a certificate format as opposed to a protocol yeah exactly that's the point i i'm trying to make is that it does define a uh well it's not really i think we can't really call it a protocol i don't think that's right i think he's right you know the the comment is is accurate in that that it's not a protocol so okay i switched to calling it a message format and also uh don't say anything about proving trustworthiness to a relying party right now i think it's it's much softened there and you know the the point of that paragraph is just the compare and contrast so it's not trying to to you know be definitive about what eat does or what yeah about trustworthiness in fact but i never use the word trustworthiness as i can accidentally used at this time okay all right so so maybe the resolution is uh to take a to do it you know compare the diffs and make sure that the new language is appropriate so the sentence quoted uh and i think it's is it hillary is the first name beforehand hillary clinton uh so i think that the sentence the hillary quotes which talks about a network protocol for proving um that was changed in uh draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "14 because i'm looking at draft 14 right now to a message format uh for approving um some of this protocol isn't there but the sentence that i copied into text is in the next is like two paragraphs down below that which still says it defines a network protocol and so as long as the second sentence is changed to the message for sentence in terms of format or mesh format or whatever uh sorry defines a message format instead of a network protocol that would be consistent if that's in draft 15 um then i think draft 15 will be fine but i've not seen 15 yet so i'm just thinking it's not fixed in 14. it's only half thanks to 14 i should say okay one place is fixed thank you and the other place is not so okay and uh nancy says in text she can't see a 15. so apparently there isn't a 15 uh available in github yet either yeah so let me clarify that okay all right can i sound like sounds like we need to look to for changes in 15 that completes the the change that was described yeah can i make a comment on draft 15 sure so uh i mean this was the bulk of my presentation um uh that we're about halfway through or maybe three quarters of the way through um constructing draft 15 so some of the changes are in github for these things and some of them are planned and probably draft 15 is going to be published around the end of the month i mean i suppose we could publish a one sooner if you wanted to um it's probably in shape to publish a 15 now if that's what you want yeah ideally"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "we can we we can disposition you know understand what the blockers are and and have that have them you know taken care of in um you know the next draft or uh the following draft okay so those were those are the four issues that i uh that the chairs could glean from from uh hillary orman's feedback then uh the next uh feedback was from the iot directorate and so i've got a list of those or a link to link to the the issues that were raised there and so um i think they're pretty much in order so basically this text on section seven for profiles uh um came up and so uh we can um we can we can sort of read through this but this the summary is basically at a high level um you know are profiles really the direction that the working group wants to head with this because it seems like that opens the door for a lot of sort of non-uh non-interoperability so that is i know that the the group has discussed profiles in the past and it seems as though there was a consensus that profiles were necessary uh but it seems though it seems as though that we're lacking in in being able to to describe that in such a way that that other readers are able to to capture that you know why why they're necessary"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "and so i don't think we've we've yet addressed this question of interoperability that dave has his hands up waiting to see if my mic will work um so i don't really agree with um elliott here about contour cultural to the ietf there are other uh popular examples of where the ietf does define a framework that there are protocols for sorry profiles for um an example is um the pre-c framework which is uh where you have interoperability profiles are used for different things like a profile for passwords a profile for usernames and that type of stuff as well as the ability for you to create additional profiles for other specific cases i see each as being very similar to that and so i think it's perfectly fine for the working group to take a position just like the pre-c working group chose uh to do now of course the interoperability is at the level of the profile not the level of of each right just because two things have eat doesn't mean that you're interoperability interoperable right uh the profile does and so it just means that yes we need some good profiles you know where we have some profiles right t-pas one i think there's uh at least three profiles that have been discussed in this working group already so in that sense no i i i don't think that uh elliot's um concern is really warranted in terms of being counter cultural to the ietfs that's the part i disagree with it does mean that we got to have good uh interoperable profiles that's all i'm saying so and is it should that be addressed in the e-draft or someplace else um well it certainly should be addressed someplace else in in profile documents i don't know i need anything else"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "in there and probably lawrence's luck but i haven't looked to say is there already some sentence that says eat by itself doesn't you know it's something that means doesn't have to say this way that means eat by itself doesn't guarantee interoperability uh interoperability is at the level of a neat profile and so each profile should be uh should have all the you know mandatory stuff i think it's in there right now but i have to go back and and verify but when i look at the document and i'm familiar with profiles and and what needs to be interoperable and this didn't chip out to me this problem i don't know if there's some wording that could be improved someplace that would help elliott and uh so lawrence mentioned that there were changes in draft 14 and that there are a plan for improved wording in 15 is that correct lawrence yes one thing i want to point out is that the the variability in the protocol or the variability in e is actually the same variability that exists in cwt it's not really that different um and what he did is propose a introduce a profile mechanism to deal with that variability um note that jose which is used by cwt actually does already mention the whole concept of profiles and oscor is a profile of jose so we're me we're already in the profile world uh just because we're using jose the the text in 14 uh tries to explain a lot of this background of like why there's variability uh and um you know that he has chosen to have a profile mechanism to address it um the text in 15 will introduce eat"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "more as a framework for uh defining um attestation token formats and less than the less the definition of a specific attestation token for me michael richardson has his hand up so i guess lawrence you've just explained to me why i have a problem with profiles if eight has the same level of profile and variability as uh seat caught then i'm not sure what the eat document actually does at that point right we could just write profiles and refer to cot and we wouldn't need a document in between and so that's the problem i have i really i really would like to see the profiles much less emphasized i want to see um the majority of the common claims well defined in this document such that um in most cases we have would have you know a three or four sentence profile in something and the way that i'm seeing is that people are having to gonna have to write four to ten page long profiles uh in their documents to do this and and i see this as a sort of like sort of some claims seem to just be sitting on the fence they're not saying anything specific um for that and that's what i would like to remove right i would like to remove the the would like the claims to be very very semantically clear and if they're not clear enough that they can be reused then maybe they don't belong there and that's my problem i i just don't want to see a you know we went through this with x509 and x509 v3 and then p kicks and then p kicks for ipsec and then and that still doesn't interoperate the five layers of profiling right so i don't want to see that happen again dave stayers on the queue um yeah dave taylor uh so i've written a neat profile um it's in the teep working group like i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "said i think we actually have three different profiles that they're that are in documents that have been sent around to the rats list i think psa is one and i think there's a third one that's which escapes me right now um the one that we did in teep is basically one page in a larger document okay and uh when i wrote it i found what's in the eat document around e profiles and claims to be very useful it's exactly what i wanted because it let me do it in only one page by saying here's a bunch of claims that you can use in profile so i don't have to not have to define any claims um i only had to answer the questions that it says profiles have to answer to create a profile so in that sense i gave it a big thumbs up as far as what it said you had to do in profiles and giving sufficient building blocks to construct a profile out of and so i did not have any negative feedback there only it had exactly what i was looking for that's my feedback so thanks lawrence is on thecube yeah um michael just to clarify a couple things there um so cwt doesn't have any profiles it doesn't define a profile or anything like that but cwt does have variability in it in that the you can use different kinds of sibor encoding it has variability in different types of cose security you know algorithms encryption or non-encryption sign versus sign one and cwt has variability in which claims are included or required or not required um so uh the the that variability is all is all there um so i i am with you on the idea that the claims individual claims should be very clear and that the there shouldn't be any variability in the individual claims that uh requires a profile to sort out but uh the major part of the a major part of the reason that there are profiles in eat"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "is because of the variability in sibor and the variability in cose and the variability in which claims can exist and which don't exist there's also the you know fact that eat includes uh jason and gwt that and there's some very there so is there maybe just to make a suggestion if we have text that describes the you know the the opportunity for having interoperability without a profile if that exists uh sort of as a least common denominator approach could you know does it make sense to to focus on that in the description of profiles in that section in other words you know focus on where interoperability can happen without the need for a profile if if that is the case and then explain the the cases where it makes sense to introduce profiles and i don't know if that if if we have you're planning on wording like that or that it you know that's that's something that's already there or planned for 15. but it seems like it seems like that the there is there is there is an interoperability there is a potential for interoperability without a profile but that hasn't really been described well um i don't think there's an opportunity for interoperability without a profile and i mean forever exactly the reason brian's just explained okay so in the case where somebody uses the claims as described as lawrence described that they're if you just if you just use those claims that's still not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "a chance for interoperability no because uh one side for example just take one of the many axes that were launched just to walk us through one side could say i'm going to support cwts and their side says i'm going to support jwts you have no interoperability right that's just one of like 10 different axes that's in there right so you got to say which one or ones of those is mandatory to implement right because it says there's multiple options right you can do cwt or jwt or both right and uh same thing for each of the different axes that's in the profile section and so that's the point of a profile was to say so it's basically it's a set of recipes the document is a set of recipes for how you build profiles here's a bunch of standard claims you can use right so every profile doesn't have to redefine the same ones just because you're going to pick this five and the other one's going to pick three of those plus two of the other ones or whatever it is or something that's gonna make one mandatory that was optional another profile whatever it is right and then here's the set of axes around you know cwt and cos a and cbor and things you're gonna choose what makes sense for your scenario and then that becomes the profile right so it's a basically a cookbook for creating profiles that's that's what the spec is right now at least that's how i see it okay yeah this would have been early design decisions so this is where elliott you know pointed out that problem because the ietf has traditionally favored the other model where we do have an mti and a base set of you know what's required because that has been seen shown to have more uh higher levels of adoption um but here we are sorry i guess i'll put my hand up in the colony yeah can you hear me yeah can you hear me yeah okay um i mean he he's not on the call to film offend himself but i think one of the things that uh elliot did not acknowledge and i mean particularly this is with respect to the underlying specifications that he builds upon cwt is an rfc it was approved uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "it was approved in the ace working group which is authentication for constrained environments so from a practical perspective you you as spec was approved as an rfc that had all claims as totally optional and the claim set was in theory infinitely extensible so the and that's simply not going to work for constrained environments so i think you know i think we're trying he's i believe the comment ultimately boils down to asking eat to fix an issue that the underlying spec did not uh that at least one of the underlying specs did not and i can make the same thing for jots too but i think you know i can just focus on cots because ironically it was approved in a working group that is focused on iot products and there's in from a practical perspective it's not feasible for a for a large class of iot receivers to design to be designed to accept a token that's infinitely extensible and and every claim is optional so um i think that should also be kind of considered when taking elliot's uh elliot's uh comment into account i think he was viewing eat in a vacuum rather than uh the underlying specs that he builds upon right that's insightful thanks uh dave okay yeah thanks thanks gary and sorry for trying to jump in so um uh just to comment uh i don't think that rats in the early design decisions made any wrong choices as far as doing eat in profiles as a direction i think i did exactly the right thing i think uh it's it's i can point to other examples of itf working groups that followed exactly the same process that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "that that rats followed for the same reasons right so if you think about dhc right dhcp options right you think about pre-c that i mentioned before you think about taps and so on the point is once you have cases that there's many different heterogeneous use cases then you can either say i'm going to develop a solution for every single use case that's different and then i have 15 different solutions or i can define a framework with a set of options and profiles that can do that right so exactly the way that eat works here with profiles you could uh you could argue that it's the same way that things like you know dhcp options work for implementations although they may have less formal notion of profiles and they could have done better there granted because that was a long time ago praise c filed this so i think it's doing the right thing i think that um each is done correctly that's sorry that the document is organized correctly as far as defining a framework for profiles of course we're not going to get interoperability until we also standardize profiles right so it's really um i think we should um get this one done and then get profiles done as soon as possible you know at least one maybe two maybe three whatever it is because that's really where you'll start getting interoperability but i don't think there's anything wrong in what rats or eat did as far as defining profiles so that's the part i i disagree with elliot on and i think it is itf culture when you try to have solutions that can be tailored to many different use cases that it actually does do profiles it really depends it may be rarer than the ones to a single one but that's because most of the time more meaning one use case or a small number that you vary with must or shoulds or whatever as a different case terminology until we came up with is really these three roles or whatever the point is there's so many different things already out there and it's still early in innovation there may be more and so we really needed a cookbook here and that's the same kind of approach that like pricey had when dealing with it with that so i'm just trying to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "defend i i don't see any problem here other than just email addressing to eliot maybe following up offline i don't see other than perhaps a sentence in the top of the profile is one that i just say um yeah in my view cwt has all the same interoperability issues that eat does it just doesn't it's just not honest about it or it's not up front about it it has all the same variability and on interoperability issues i mean two cwts are not guaranteed to interoperate because they might use different crypto algorithms or different seaboard encoding um so uh what it did is kind of took the interoperability bull by the horns here and it was very clear that there are interoperability issues inherited from cwt and proposed a solution and so the decision uh about profile or no profile well really what what really happened was the decision to use cwt and cose and cbor that's where the interoperability issues uh root from and then he made the decision to add profiles to kind of wrestle with that issue or you know provide some solution to that issue so maybe uh dave's suggestion is to add a line or two that brings that thought into the document more clearly 14 to explain that okay all right so i'm gonna move on unless there's uh what more to say about it and uh we have we're not gonna get through the list it looks like we have about five minutes left if that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "so but let's try and get uh at least one more item here so the section four one so referring to the nonce uh claim he's saying the knots must have 64 bits of entropy as fewer bits are unlikely to be secure a maximum not size set to limit the memory required for an implementation there are two sides to this equation the generator of the knots and the consumer how's the generator supposed to know how much memory the consumer has and so lawrence mentioned in his email to the list that elliot missed the text that addresses this when you comment when he made his comment the text has been there since draft nine can uh what can you summarize what the text is saying here that addresses his concern lawrence yeah it does a calculation of the maximum size uh and says what the maximum size that the receiver needs to handle is and and that calculation addresses his concern about the generator and the consumer and the generator able to agree on on how much memory is needed i think so okay so maybe this is just a response to elliot that explains this and points to the other sections that describe it yeah that's i've provided that response to elliot already okay all right um so i'm gonna take a pause here and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "and uh asked nancy if this is if it makes sense to do milestones now or do we want to maybe take a few more minutes to do uh one more issue let's do one more issue because i can literally just put the milestones up and spend less than five minutes if needed okay let's move on to the next one having to do with uuids our variable length so elliott asserts that all implementations must be able to receive uads that are 33 bytes long no uad longer than 33 bytes should be sent i don't understand the parenthetical which i am not which is basically asserting that between section 421 and 422 there's a particular use case that that he's not understanding where he says if a system integrated resells a bunch of components that have been tied together what guidance is given as to which ueid or suvid should be exposed and for what purpose does the consumer consume a full array of each of these things what's the intent so it sounds like it's just the example is concern is with the example but it's not understandable so beyond the beyond the math so so lawrence's feedback was well elliot's math is wrong but even if the math is corrected that there still seems to be a question around is the example wording uh you know clear enough"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:05",
    "text": "um i did make some yeah yeah you're right that that there's there is the issue beyond the math um and i did i know i did make some improvements in the wording around s-u-e-i-d to address that comment um i i don't have them off the top of my head but they are in draft in 14 or 15 14. okay all right um so any any more conversation on that if not i'm gonna turn it over to nancy to talk about milestones do you mind um putting up the slides then i got a second and i don't know if we made it public but i do want to recognize and thank carl wallace as well because he's going to be helping um work on the eat draft as a co-author meanwhile um since we rechartered i noticed that a lot of our milestones had gotten dropped because we had to insert the new charter the new charter only included the the basically just the co-rim draft that we wanted to adopt so with that um what i wanted to do is just list the current drafts and their status um and so let me just go through them really quick the architecture is still going through the comment isg evaluation and comment review and i think that's continuing to proceed the chara and the profile remote integrity verification um are in the rfc editor's queue so eric"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "and guy i think most of the gating items have gone through it's just up to the um rfc editors to come back and give you the uh the off 48 i think that's where we are um with those two drafts we just went through there's still a few more issues um i think net didn't get to cover and so we'll expect and we can re-review once we see a version 15. um the at the station's results for um secure interactions is currently in version three from what i noticed on the github there are still some open issues don't know from the authors when we can accept a new version um i'll get to dave in to the bottom just a minute so let me just keep going through um we just recently adopted both the media types and the co-rims so it's good to see that some of the feedback have been reflected in the github issues um direct anonymous attestation haven't really gotten an update there it's still under version one it would be good if we had more reviews and figured out whether it's mature enough to do an early working group last call um so one of the chairs will reach out to the authors there um for the network device subscription we're still awaiting the results from the yang review um if we can get participants here to also provide feedback would be great on that draft um the unprotected cot um draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "the co-authors including myself are still working on it um we should get it mature sometime soon i need to caucus with the co-authors there uh interaction models we're up to version six on that i didn't see any open issues so we need to reach back to the authors to see if we should issue an early working group last call on that we've had discussions on the trust anchor stores and the e-collection types i put out a call for interest we received enough interest especially for the trust anchor stores what i was really hoping for was to have discussion also whether the group felt that it should be up level to um another working group versus rats there was only one um positive feedback that we needed to move on this draft and rats was as good a group as any so with that if we have time um ned we can do a poll to see if we can do a call for adoption on that draft here and then we can confirm on the mail list um i don't know if thomas is on the call um i think yeah he's not on call he mentioned he would be providing some feedback on the e-collection types as well which we've had a few comments on it but i'd like to gauge better interest so please chime in on the mail list on interest on the collection type before i engage and feedback on the draft whether it's ready to be adopted is what i mean um so before we do the call for adoption let me just go to the next slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "ned and go through the updated so when we reach harder we said we would adopt the core rem and we had it listed as adoption in july which we've done but then it said that we would do a working group last call this november and we'd be done in march which i think may be too early so my proposal is to push those out march um and i'm putting all of the current drafts that we're working on to see if we can do a proposed working group last call in november um so authors of those drafts if you feel you won't be ready let the chairs know and then i just gave it six months from the working last call to react to those comments uh before we can go to uh iesg publication and then the two drafts that we've been discussing that still need adoption are the uh the concise trust anchor school uh stores in the collection okay i just realized we're out of time so maybe what i'll do uh since we're out of time is i'll put the call for adoption on the trust anchor stores and please everybody um respond in favor or or not and provide feedback on the trust anchor stores with that i'll pause and see if um go ahead and then dave's on the queue and we're over time so um process point uh for uh nancy uh by the way i i'm a huge fan of the concise trust anchor stories i wanted adopted uh i'm just i was the one that said i'm not sure this working group is the best"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "place for it uh if it is here that's okay but uh my current reading of the charter is it required or a charter update it's actually a lesson scope than the co-rim one which i didn't think required a charter update but roman did um and so before you put out the call before you conclude the call for adoption you may want to check with our ad and see if we want to update the charter if that one's going to be adopted in this working group because my reading is you can't actually adopt in this working group without the charter change uh thanks for that clarification dave so i'll have to go back and reread the recharter um to double check on scope but that's a great point thanks okay i think with that we're out of time okay so i um we'll close the meeting then thank you thanks everyone better nancy hey"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:31",
    "text": "you"
  }
]
