[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:38",
    "text": "Central controller. Yeah. Sorry. And what's that? Can you just when when the lights come up, can you just pick it because I I need to Aliska on to the me check her before we do anything so start with the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "the mic's coming back, I definitely just can't find something here. So we're just gonna wait for a couple of minutes until the mics are up. Yeah. They're not not working. Sorry? As an idea engaged Yeah. Can you can you send a message to the queue? Just send a message to the list. Not so much to the No. They will light this. I don't know if they've been switched off here. Dubaya, would you please confirm your connect address? We can hear you remote. Masters. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. It's just the room, speaker. So we'll see what we could do. Thanks, sir. Bye. I just Where's it picking it up from? Oh, it's just the the PA. It's not on. Yeah. Okay. Say, say, say, relays it. We have nothing but good things to say. And we have no secrets. Yes. Testing. Testing. Yes. Good. Okay. 1. 12. Hello? You confirm you are me? From remote. Yes. We can hear the remote. Okay. Perfect. Thank you. When to get Joanna, can you start? Because I'm no longer here."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "Hello, everyone. So this is best working group. We are getting started now after some technical issues. Cochair, Stefan, is remote. Matthew and I are here. Our secretary, make my note. Cannot join us today. Okay. So note well, I hope I hope everyone is already aware aware of this very well. Everything you say Anything you'll say, to communicate here in IITF is subject to this, notice. Meeting tips. If you are in here in person, make sure sign into session use, meet echo. Joined the my queue. You can scan the QR codes up over there on the screen? Remove participants, please. Build build yourself and unbilled when you I allow to speak. Can we get a volunteer for the notes Take Any anyone? Please please could we have a notetaker? It'd be really helpful. Full. Otherwise, we may have to rely on the, automatic transcription and anything you say may be translated into a really strange saying, So if you don't want to be embarrassed, Okay. Thank you. You. I really appreciate Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "We have we had a 4 agenda, but now we had once presentation dropped. So we may have some extra time. But we'll we'll try to like, Go according to the schedule. You know, Now before we start the the agenda list, We have a new routing area director. Counter, he's taking over as our responsible AD Welcome counter. And good luck. And thanks for our outgoing AD, Andrew Austin. For his stewardship. Over the last few years. So, Working group, Status updates. We have, RFC 94 eighties, 9 published Since last IETF. Label switch pass ping mechanism for EVPN. And provide their backbone breaching, 8 apm. We have, 6 documents in the RFC editor queue, Here, we have this 5 But, actually, there is another one that just just got it and moved into our RC editor's queue. Is the IRB multicast draft. We've cry we have quite a few, under AD or IESC a review. This includes one that just got moved to the RC editor's queue here. I don't think we need to go through this one by one. But now leave it on screen for a few seconds to so that if you see anything that's, your your, any diff a discrepancy you can speak up,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:06",
    "text": "One thing I'd just like to say is that on the, the the SD WAN usage draft, there's a couple of ISG discusses on that from various ADs. I know that the editor Linda has has responded to, I think, to both of those now, we're still waiting for either a yes or a no, from those IDs. To clear try and clear those last last discusses, it won't move forward, obviously, until until those are cleared. I don't know if you have any anything else you wanna say about progress of that draft in the ISG. At this point in time, not much more to say about that. I have a question. Go ahead. Wondering with respect to the first three drafts when it says with AD. Can you please clarify what needs to be done by the AD? And the reason I'm asking this question is because especially with respect to the 1st draft, AD needed to respond to an email and Andrew did that like last time. In the in November. So I'm wondering, like, if that got clear why Why is it not moving? Well, you know, I'm like, So I'm literally AD for about, like, 5 minutes, and you put Thank you for that. So I'm gonna postpone my answer on that. Her, and I will look into it, and I will come back EU, Sounds good. With something to say. About this, but otherwise, I will come back to you. Okay?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "Thank you Okay. We'll move on to the next slide. Documents under share share first review, We have, quite a few, waiting for the, Shepherd to write up there's one waiting for implementations So if you know about any implementation about the last one EVPN, Geneva, Please let us know. So that we can, moving forward, We have, 2 documents, failed working group last call. 1 the first one, l 2, Greek gateway product, protocol to do the support, demonstrate a working group interest. Please speak up on the list If you want to see this progress, The second one, We basic waiting for the review for the lacer version from, IDR. So so on the IP VPN into working draft, yeah, so we had there was one review done by the IDR chairs. And there was some discussion with the authors about a year ago, I think. And they made some updates to the draft. And I think, Jeff, you were you were planning on, having another look at the draft to, and provide some more feedback. Yeah. So I have, partial edits in the queue right now. I just need to finish them up. So this is Okay. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:03",
    "text": "Yeah. So I think once probably once what what we should probably do with that draft this. Once we've had Once we've had, sort of consensus with the IDR chairs on it, we should probably do another short working group last call and then and then move it forward. In fact, if you don't have any issues, the rise during during the last call. Himanshi. Can can you try and you remember to use the on-site tool? And to get an acute Himanshu from Ciena. I know you said to expressed the interest on there to gateway protocol. But we want to We want to progress this. So I'm interested in you, ma'am. Getting it progressed. I have some few clarification questions, and I'll talk to the author about that. Okay. So we have quite a some dog prints ready, potentially ready for Growth in group last call, AC Ware aboundoning drafts, We have seen quite a few questions comments on the list. I the in factor is 1, from me as well. I talked to Hohei about this and, hatsup, well, we agreed that there are some, change needs needs to be done. Then, Next one. But cost flow TF election is expired. It needs to be up to address some comments on the list. The extended up up optimized, ingress replication. We have finished, The routing directory review and JNR review, the comments have been addressed, So I think we we should be able to move to next step,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:04",
    "text": "the 7432 base grafts we finished the routing directory, the review, and then then the dress the comments are have already been addressed we also started, request, Jing RGU. I do believe there is at least one change need to be made to the DF Election, procedure, The existing wording there is is quite confusing, I talked to one of the co authors before, I think that needs to be addressed. The motor gas controller Grafts, Let's the post the routing directory review general review have been addressed. We just need a one more confirmation from the reviewer that's, the comments have been really in address. But, on the author side, we have done the address the issues of the date. Greg Gil. On the K. Greg Muske, Erickson. So, my question, is this exhaustively of, what documents that are being considered for a working group last call No. It's not totally exhaustive, but a top, like, if we've missed something, then drop us an email again. I I just think that, it might be, good to keep the progress of EVPN OEM documents publications and working through after the publication of extensions I was hoping specific for EVPN with their, complete work on the DOD for EVPM because I'm one of the co offers and, I believe that document is stable and ready for, comments and then progressing."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "Yeah. Okay. So if you if you send us an email, send on that. And so the way that we manage this because we have a fairly We have a lot of individual drafts that need to be managed. For for the work, and and and IETF jobs, obviously. To manage for these these 2 queues. And and the way that we we do it is that we use the Wiki Mhmm. those So add we'll have a look at them and add them to it here. I I might check my if my bill ready there. Yeah. Thanks. Continue on the list. The b g multicast graphs, post, directory review and, general review having addressed and then confirmed. So it should be able to move forward The SIMiness MVP and EVV in 70s interrupt drafts. We have received comments for those re early reviews, and Travis is being updated finally, the SRV 6 arcs, documents, we have received the request for expert expedited Last call. And I think it started already. I see. No. I don't think it started but, yet, it was only a couple of days ago. But, so Sorry. Except this this this had quite a quick working group adoption, poll not very long ago, and this is now on version 1 of the draft, but it it it kind of clarifies some of the tax in, Obviously, 9252. Based on implementation experience. So, think it's fairly important to to make sure that we don't end up with some implementations done in particular way because of a a different interpretation of of, the RFC. We have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "long queue for the adoption call. Actually, the first one, drafts, the the the call closed on on Wednesday. We believe we have you received enough support and we should accept it. IP agents, and that's actually accepted already. And then the working proof work version has been published. The map cafe drafts, the authors need to clean up the author list 1st, and then we'll we should be able to start call on the other one. And the The next one security if you're maxing them in debt, when, we didn't get enough, support So it's failed. The next two ipv6 infra and the EVP, MVP, EVP SIM multicast enhancements, Those two drafts need to be considered together. Because the use case for the ipv6 in infra the problem there has been discussing this the next draft as well. Have different solutions. We want to discuss them In fact, there have been a lot of discussions. We just need to get the get the conclusion So please review the the discussion, and then see, which we want we want to go. I will have, some, discussion on that one later as well. So the upstream TFE selection that has also been requested. I believe we need more discussions on the immunohist. The fuss reroute 1 A review request was sent to Spring Working Group I I lived there was one comments from another Group up,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "authors for another draft about whether we should use a different behavior, for SRS 6 or just use a flag. I think, That discussion is to happen and close. And and I finally need the the private MPS label drafts, We need a cross working group review from with MPOS and IDR working group. Hey. So I think Don't don't Alright. Well, Donald Eastlake with the future, on the graphs potentially ready for a working group last call. I believe at the last meeting, you agreed that best EVPN BFT. Should be included in that list. But I didn't see it. Yes. We need to add that to the Wiki as well out by so we track track those on the Wiki. If you see anything that you have asked for, and that and the chairs were agreed to it and they're not updated on on the working group wiki, we keep a queue So so you can see what's in the queue. To send us a reminder, Yeah. Sorry. Thank you. Yeah. We generate the size based on on of it on that. So I think first is is Greg. Probably about a few. If you just verify it. Can can Houston. So thank you for inviting. To present, work, in MPLS Working Group on, First Naval. So you will notice that,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:04",
    "text": "Traditionally, that, construct was referred to as MPOS 1st Nimble, Then, for the discussions, we realized that it's misnaming because, this first label is not really a part and bill us label stack. It's a part of what follows the labels that immediately. So that's why, one of their, terminology changes and, to refer to it as a post stack for a Snibel. So don't be surprised. It's the same thing. Same four bits. Okay. So, why do we need this? Because, so the first stack, post tag first label is a construct that first, 4 bits that immediately follow the label stack element that has, bottom of the stack flag set. Historically, what, realized that for, world balancing, and some implementations. For, several reasons. Try to, did use their type of a payload under their, label stack based on the value of 1st naval. As when MPLS was, defined as architected, So we agreed that it has, an an Native payload. Being, IT whether ipv4ipv6. So thus, it's assumed that if, the first name of values are either 4 or 6, then it's safe to assume that the payload is either ipv4, or ipv6"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "and then use that, information any, generation of the entropy. Also, with the development of, Soudewire Technology, So, assign, values 0 for, the data. And one for, Associate a channel header. VCCV so that, can be differentiated from, IP payload. For the sugar wire, there are several types of sugar wire been defined, one of them being, either met must might be probably the bro broader, deployed And, later on, Yeah. Actually, in the course of standardizing their solution for ethernet to the wire, We, as, The group made a compromise. We made the control word an option. And, that, Later, realized that it was not the best solution. Because they're, then, some of, MAC addresses not being preceded by should the wire control word, which is, in fact, in the generalized as a post stack header, could be mistaken for, the MAC address. We try to mitigate that by recommending use of to do our control word, but still, that's an option. So effectively what, didn't realize that some implementations might use, the only value of, post that first nimble as an information to did you use the type of a payload?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "Which is wrong. That's not how MPOS works because on the, Last, label or group of, labels at the bottom of the stack, can, Sure. What the type of the payload is encapsulated in, in the label stack. So that's why, we want to first document, which numbers for, first nimble being in use. Because it's not only 0146. But at the same time, to, use this opportunity, to deprecate cases where non IP payload encapsulated without post stack header. And, for that, we give their, definition of what deprecation means in the context of this document. So the deprecation is different from, the neck step with more severe is obsolete. So the application is refer to new implementations and deployments. So, thus, New implementations, that support the will support this specification should, must not Use non IP Payload without post stack header. And, our intention is, after this document is published, or might be in concurrently to start work on the document that will obsolete, this, non, post tech header, use."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "So Yeah. Thank you. Okay. So, I already mentioned that, one of the concern well, the the major concern for I suppose that, The only way, some implementations use the only value in a post deck, first nimble to do load balancing. And that, leads to some undesired outcomes. So that only can be done for, if the value of 1st naval is either 4 or 6 because that is, exclusively used for ipv4ipv6, respectively. Okay. So how, the FN can be used safely. It can be used only in combination with their, bottom of the stake label or label group, because only that defines, their type of a payload, but at the same time, As we know, for example, from Should the wires So the value of, post tech, 1st Nimble will differentiate the payload from OEM. So from the con management control, payloads, And, that's been done, in for example, reused in, deterministic networking with MPLS data land. But, on the other hand, beer decided, After No. Consider, discussions, they decided to use the value of the first post tech nimble in beer encapsulation over MPOS data playing as 5. And then use an explicit protocol, identify for OEM payload. Help. Help."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "So that's one needs to know that this is a beer label. At the bottom of the stack to understand that that the beer follows, the 5 might not be sufficient. As part of the work, we're updating, I received 49 28 to do clarify and, really make, their normative language stronger in regard to the use of, post stack for a sniffle. And to introduce, this terminology as a post stack first label and post stack, header. And, the other part of this work is to prepare, format for, IANA registry of a post deck first name. I just wanna, mention that we're see if the early, review from IANA And, this format that is, reflected here in slides and in the current version of the document, It's not that how it's gonna be because, IANA informed us that they cannot, create registry like that. They, really thoughtfully offered us the 3 options that we'll discuss. And consider and then, update and bring it to MPLS Working Group for review. And, everyone is welcome to review and comment, on MLS Working Grouplist But our idea was that to highlight it based on applications that use 1st level values of any value, rather than because the prior version was listing the values in ascending order and that because the same value was used by several applications,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "well, We thought that it might be not clear enough. We'll we'll try to find the compromise because between several, desired outcomes. So what we want to, message, to convey, today. So they're, controlled work in, 7430 to this Again, as we suggest deprecating their use of Not the option of not using pseudo wire control word for none, IP payload. Is deprecated. And we'll appreciate your consideration in reflecting that in 70 432 biz. And Welcome your, comments, questions, and, please, include NPLS working group in all discussions related to this, post deck for nebo, and use of a said the WER control word. Okay. I think you're 1st in there. Thank you. Just wanted to mention that it's probably also relevant to rfc8214 as well. It also has similar text about believe about, How you do load balancing? That's right. Yeah. So Jorge Ravalan, No. My, my question or my ask to US. There's a a clear section in 743 talking about control work and how you signal it and how you use it, So can you go through it and let us know if you're happy with it, or you wanna change it? Yeah. Well, okay. K. 1st, We'll do. Second, some time ago, I I read it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "And I think that, My impression that based on our recommendation and our action, coming out of this work would be that control worth must all the time. Okay. Because in the old 7432, there was an option to not use it Yes. Again, that's the compromise we've made, and now we are paying for it. I think I think the tax sorry that. The tax for the in the original RFC was not really, there's an option not to use it. It was actually more of, you mustn't use it, or you shouldn't use it. If if you, if you believe, if you, for example, if you have, entropy label inserted on on there, but the I think the comment against that was You don't know. What what, you know, the head end doesn't know how the entropy label is or if the entropy label is going to be used bone intermediate LSR for the load balancing. Just another label in the stack. And and we recently changed the text because of your comments. So Maybe we it requires more discussion on the list, I guess. So If I may, I question is, how do I know that it is my turn? Hello? Go ahead, Ali. Okay. So My question is Section 18, we have gone through it with the fine comb. To make sure that, you know, all that, all the i's are dotted and all the t's are crossed. So I highly recommend going through that section, you know, let us know if if there is anything missing because it's cover, multiple scenario. 36 including,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "When the tunnel is RSVPte, So my question to you, Greg, is for the RSVPTE tunnels. Do you still mandate the use of the control over And the PFM, Okay. Thank you. Okay. Couple of things. I think that PSN will exist regardless of whether there is a control word or not because then the only question will be what would be the value of that AFN? Because, If it's IP payload, then it will be 4 or 6 If it's a control word, it will be 0. If it's, Associative channel, Heather, it will be 1 If it's something else, it might be something else. And thus it could be, again, 0 or 1 because some some max can get that. But our concern is for transit nodes. So, for transit notes, doing something, for the load balancing. And without the, the concern that we have and one we why we proposing to deprecate use of None. Of non IP, cases of non IP payload without, post tag header is then it becomes unpredictable and basically their world balancing by trends, if not, might be unpredictable. Regardless of what this, LSP is. So, that, basically, that's, what we've emphasized. In that section 18 of the packet reordering to make sure that there is, you know,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "when there is, chances of load balancing, we insert the control war, control war, and, make sure that, all the packets of a given flow are delivered in order But when there is no possibility of load balancing such as traffic engineering tunnel. We don't want to Sheridan. And add additional control wars when it doesn't serve a purpose. Okay. I sympathize, with this effort to optimize But, first, in our current state of technology, saving, 4 octets, It, might be not that significant gain comparing to the complexity of the logic. So might be it would be acceptable. And again, as I said, I'll I'll read the document again. I'll read the document very carefully. And we'll discuss it with, other offers of this work and we'll come back with our, questions and suggestions. But on the first take, it seems to me that making the use of a control ward mandatory across all use cases might be the simpler way. Yeah. And that's a ticket to the list. Yeah. But, we'll take it to the list. And, again, please, in everything, in all discussions related to this, document, please include MPLS Working Group. Okay. Thanks. Thank you. So Next is okay. Thanks. Yeah. I'm not taking notes for this."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "It's okay. That that's okay. Alright. Yeah. Welcome. So this is, first draft is about, yeah, the year 3 fast convergence. And I, Aless in backup for intercepting forwarding or also known as IP alias in Yeah. So the, document was adopted, some time ago. And, basically, the high level summary is that we want to to bring all the benefits of, aliasing and, mass withdraw and all that that we had in, EVP and layer 2 routes. For INTERCEPT Net Forwarding. And this is done, based on 2 types of, Eastern segments. The ethernet segments associated to, a set of ethernet links That's what we use in the use cases 1 and 2 in the document. Then there's a third, case, which is an Ethernet segment as a layer 3 construct. And that is what we use in the, in the use case 3 in the document. So we received, quite a bit of feedback in the meantime. And so in the latest, version, which try to address all the, all the comments and questions and mostly clarifying, some scenarios in the 40 use case 3. And, and also things like, when when you have, you know, an ethernet segment, that is shared for layer 2, layer 3. Because you are in the use cases 1 and 2, in the IP version, you really need to use a different route system we share so that they, you know, the a deeper ears and, EDA routes they, they are actually different we also fixed some type of an updated references And, well, the idea is, please give us more feedback if there is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "or there are more things to clarify. We are happy to improve the text. Otherwise, we shoot me we should looking at moving this to working group last call, Thanks. Okay. The next one is inter domain option b solution for eVPN. This document is, informational. It does not create new EVPM procedures. It basically summarizes the impact of the inter domain of and B connectivity in the EVPN procedures. Includes all the VPN different services. Meaning ELAN, E Line E3 Services, also intercept net forwarding or layer 3. As well as PBB, EVBN. The idea is that, identifies the potential issues you may go through when you have this type of scenario. And analyze these potential solutions for those issues based on the existing specifications, and some local implementations that do not change their control plane. That's, why it's informational at the moment. The document talks about these two option B models. So the first one on the left hand side is basically, you have multiple domains. Each one is typically, mapped to different ITP domain. And you have, boarder routers stitching those domains on the border routers, you do not have, VRF instantiation. And typically all of those domains are part of the same, a is number, So in that case, basically, as you would expect, the, you have ingress piece, egress piece, the egress piece will advertise the routes. The board of the routers will, do the next up self"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "and they will program this, service label swap operation. For the data plane. On the right hand side, you have, It's like in a different model, but same procedures. So this is, typically enter a yes, model b. So each domain is really different a is number, the board of the routers are, can be directly connected And, here in this context, basically, we talk about verse as a, abstraction. So it can be a McBirth or an IP verve or even, VPWS instance Right? It doesn't matter. Then the the labels that you can see here, the labels can be 20 bit labels. For MPLS tunnels, or it can also be 24 bit labels in, case of MTO tunnels, VNI. The, the option B procedures or issues were, originally specified in a RFC 8365. But, they were just a couple of pieces here and there. So that's why we decided to put together an informational document. It's good to say that for NCO tunnels, there are no, trans tunnels. So the transport tunnels that you see here in the, in the diagrams are, supposed to be for a MPLS, not for NCO tunnels. So, anyway, the The version 00 was presented in IETF 116. Ever since, we refreshed, the draft. We added Wen as author, and, we appreciate, her insights, we added all her comments as well. We improved the terminology section. We also clarified that when you are in, EVP and ELAN sort of scenario, and you have different empty use in different domains. It's actually good to signal, MTU 0. To make sure that, we don't have, issues with the establishment of the tunnels."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:04",
    "text": "The what we want for the next steps is more feedback from the working group. We believe this work is needed And, we would to ask for a working group adoption. would like Jeff Justin Turrin Media, Back to the arising Draft. I think it's ready for Google. It's really readable, implementable document. Question for you the implementation report quick search shows, actually not yet support in it, but what about the rest of the industry Could you please include the implementation report? Okay. Do we do implementation reports in this? Well, we we do implementation polls. We have been discussing amongst the chairs about how to maybe better manage this going forward so the preserved somewhere because at the moment, all we're really doing is pulling the list at a working group last called. Time. To say, hap do we have at least one implementation which probably We've had some comments that maybe this isn't isn't sufficient and we need to be able to preserve that information somewhere as well. Yeah. Idea practices might be in place. And, usually, we use weekend idea for that, but even if you include it in draft and then remove before publications will be very, very or that, or that Yeah. There there there is there is also a way you can do it through the day's tracker. There's a a tag you can add to the further information a document for for related implementations. Would be great. And really good work. Yeah. We are open to whatever we decide we can we can do. Yeah. Anything it? I know you've implemented it, but about is there any interoperability testing anything. Not as far as I know. So think I replied to your email on the list. I know 2 implementations, but I don't know if there are some others. So Thank you. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:05",
    "text": "Just a quick question. With the respect to the implementation, isn't that, for the implementation of basically me, as the working group during the working group last I'm not the working group adoption. Right? Is that okay? For the chair, sir, for the chairs. So I can I'm just trying to get I'm sorry. I I did I missed your question. Question is with respect to the implementation, this is typically for the working group last call adoption. As far as I can remember, is that true? I mean, not for the working group adoption. Sorry. The question is around the implementation. Yes. Yes. Yes. That's around. That's a working that's a working group last call time. I think that's why I mentioned that Uh-uh. Discussed that. Okay. So, I think it's always good. Well, he is asking for working group call adoption. Well, no. Last call. Right? Option b. Okay. Oh, no. It's No. No. Yeah. It's, presented option b, but this discussion was of the IP alias in draft. Okay. I thought it was with respect to the option b that you're presenting right now. Oh, no. No. No. No. No. No. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry about that. Yeah. Okay. Yes. One more. I think I think we should probably take the rest of this. Oh, you have one more. Don't I more. got 1 Yeah. We can make it a choice."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:09",
    "text": "Okay. So refresh about this one. This is about, multicast forwarding for EVP and to EVP and gateways. And, basically, the idea, was to fill a gap that we have in the current specifications for EVPM Multicast. Service gateways. So on one hand, a for layer 2 service gateways, we we had RFC, 9014 specifying how to do the the gateway thing for UniCast traffic, layer 2, unicast and bump traffic as well. And on the other hand, we also had, RFC 9251, defining the GMPMLD proxy procedures, within the same layer 2 domain, right, ADPN broadcast domain. But we were missing, then basically how to do inter domain for IP multicast. Right? For layer 3, service gateways, a similar thing. We had a specification for unicast, saying how you do the inter domain layer 3, We also have, the OISM, recently approved, draft that talks about how to do INTERCEPT multicast forwarding. Within the same EVPN domain and also specifies how to do the stitching to, MVP and our team domains. But there was a missing piece, which was the, layer 3 multicast between, you know, EasyPN, domains, evpn to evpn with the service gateway. Because of that, this draft is actually, addressing those, two gaps. And, Well, we presented this in the past, the diagrams that you have here is actually the 2 use cases. On the left hand side, you have the the layer 2 inter domain, case. So you have ADPM,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:05",
    "text": "domains for the same broadcast domain. All the pieces are attached to the same, broadcast domain. And the gateways in, in the middle that are are stitching the 2 domains, and they are performing this, proxy function for estimate routes. And re advertising into the adjacent domain, a single, EVPNs met route doing the proxy function. In a similar way, on the right hand side, you have the layer 3 scenario where you have basically an OISM domain, the bottom, and you have an OISM domain at the top. And you have these two gateways in between that are stitching things together. Same thing in the gateways. They need to have some procedures. They have an sbd supplementary broadcast on a per domain. They are stitching. They run a Doctor election. And, basically, the Doctor is as the first call router for the other domain. Right? So it'll create multicast state and it'll do, you know, sort of, 1st scope router function for the Aspen routes that is advertising into the adjacent Bye. Anyway, so, this was presented in an IETF 115 you have more details on on those slides. And, ever since we presented this, we have refreshed the the draft and, we improved the some sections terminology, typos, references, And we also fixed, a bug in the, in the draft. I was saying that you could only aggregate ESMA routes for starcoma G and Eskoma G, the received, as many routes have the same multicast flags which is not true. You can have different Multicast flags, and you can still do the, the aggregation And with that, basically, what you are we are requesting as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "not moving. Alright. So more feedback from the working group And as for working group adoption since the draft is produced stable, Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Quick question. Yeah. Go ahead, Ali. I'm, wondering, Hormy, like, if you respect to the gap in RFC in 1914. We do the, this gateway functionality and interworking our for the unicorns, run type 2 and the route type 5. And, broadcast traffic, but as you mentioned, not for multicast. So have you consider like, to, do it as part of the RFC 9014 piece. So that we, you know, make it more comprehensive save and have it in a single depository. We could do both ways, but this traffic is not only addressing, RFCA and 9014 for multicast, but it's not addressing the, layer 3 part, which is the EVP and IP VPN interworking draft. In OISM. So, you know, if we did it via RFC 9014 biz, we would be addressing only half of the problem. The OISM doesn't even have it already the working session. Are you saying that is not that doesn't cover it. No. It it doesn't cover it. So it covers interworking between, an EVPN domain and MVPM or PIM. But not from EVPN to EVPN. To different, EZPN domains."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "That that is the part that is missing. Okay. Alright. Okay. Okay. Thanks. Alright. Thank you. Okay. So next is Jeffrey. I have 2 presentations. I'll try to cut out 5 to 10 minutes of this First one is about, small enhancements with the BGP and VPN and and Next slide, please. So, with pdpmapn, there are 2 routes We call it CMADCAS file type 6 or type 7. Corresponding to pin stargie or SG joints, respectively, to support the pin ASM mode we can either send the stargy join. Across the provider network or just stop it at the egress p and then sending the SC joints instead. So in the later case, we call it SP only mode. And in short. The way it works is that, if you look at the lower right corner, The Cs 3 has a receiver it sends a star g pin joint towards PE 3. Now p 3 will hold it will not do anything, and we receive the star 2 join. But but but when the source starts sending, and and the c 1 router or sense s t pin register message to the customer RP that is on PE2. When p 2 receives that, It was sent, source active routes, at steps 3. And then that source active route is received by every p including PE 3 who will send Simark's route for the CSCG And Yeah. Join towards PE 1, which is the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "ingress router for this source. That's at the step 5 or step 4. Then p 1 will send sgPM join towards CE 1, and then the traffic will start flowing. So this is how we achieve this ASM, any customer, market source modes, without sending the star to join across the core. This is called SPD only mode. It's just break, background on this. Next slide, please. So there is one deficiency in this solution. Let's say that's, p 2 the session goes down or for whatever reason, p3 invalidates that's source active routes from p 2, for whatever reason, then p 3 Woah. Withdraw its CSCG CMadcastroutes the MP 1 was stopped sending traffic. This is not desired because the failure relief of PE2 should not affect this, flow at all. It's not even in Next slide, please. The There is a solution to this, and in fact, it makes sense, and it's actually goes with the the the design principle in this, BHPM API. Basically, in this case, p 1 can also advertise a source active route. In this case. In that case, when when that is done, p 3 has 2 source active routes for the same flow both from PE 1 and PE 2. And as long as there's at least one left, it will peace through will not withdraw the Yep. The CSCGC multicast routes. So traffic flow will not be disturbed."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "This is actually aligned with the design of the source active routes The purpose is that Social API route is the purpose is to announce sources. In the RFC 6514, it talks about that a PE learning the sources will advertise advertise their routes. It 8 listed 2 ways. One is that a p is Customer RP, roundtable points, or the P has a MSTP session. To learn the sources. It does not mention other ways of discovering source but they're There could be many ways to discover the source. Next slide, please. So the proposal here is that at PE As long as you're learning the sources. By any methods, it can advertise source active routes. The RFC 6514 order listed to is in the first separate. And then in this draft, we saying that, any way of of learning this active source could advertise as our source active routes. And including the provisioning or pin flooding and that used, for source discovery. And the last one is suggested by a man. Going with that, a PE mass visual is extra source active routes. Which if the source no longer active. Next slide, please. It's a very simple enhancements. We believe it makes sense. We appreciate comments here. And if this makes sense, we could either progress these graphs separately or fold that into a possible."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "RFC 6514bstrap. Which I will talk about in the next presentation. Thanks, Jeffrey. Any comments? Okay. Mathew. He he and I'm actually not in the queue. Can you use the Himancho, can you use the tool place to get in the queue because we have others in the queue as well. Next time. So What Did I understand correct? What what is, How is this related to EVPN? This was all about MVPN. Right? This is for MVPN. Yeah. So that's why I'm I'm asking how is this related to EVP. Did I see VPN? I'm if I say No. You didn't say it. But this is being discussed in the EVPN. This is pass. Oh, this is can. Okay. Okay. pass. No. You May seem like the EVPM working group, but actually it's their sitting best as he's been. Bye. Sun is on the t, let's go to page 2 or 3 Peace. Oh, yes. Let me see this figure. I think that the if I understand the right, the proposal of this drop as a tool said, we let the multi homing p e, the p both of the T's senders asg joint messaging. Right. It's, not an SG join, as a s SG and advertisement. The s g join is only sent by p3, and but the APC needs to wait for the SG source active route. From someone. And if you've strictly followed the existing RFC, in this case, only p 2 will send that source active route. Yep. And that has a problem for this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:04",
    "text": "p 2 goes down or whatever, how the if that route is invalidated. So if p 1 also sent the SCX source active route, then we solve that problem. So the a general proposal here is that any PE, if it learns the sources on its side, it can advertise their source active routes. Yeah. That answers my question. Yes. I think that is your for you many deployment scenarios. So I think that it's useful and the but I But I don't think, that's the that can be discussed because, if we want to do something for updates, obviously, 6 60 65 for being. There may be some large modifications should be down, I think. So, I think it's, opportunity to reviews all the, contents in, I've seen, 6514. Yeah. So we can do some revised mental file. For the vaccine. Yeah. Right. That's why we're talking about having the next presentation. That texts, So, if possible, our fees RFC 6514 bistrabs came out of a chair's discussion when we we're looking at, adoption adoption requests for two drafts that I mentioned earlier during the working group's test updates. So this reflects thoughts, which shares have We just want to share them here and then see how the working group feel about it. Exactly, please. specification itself for PCM VPN. And also has a lot of follow-up specifications. In particular, the first"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "RFC after that, the 6515, is a clarification. It just explains how explains how we can know whether some, addresses in the routes are IPV 4 or IPV 6. And then there are some, simple feature extensions and and large feature expansions there. I'm not going through those I'll just skip to next one. Slide, please. We do notice that, there are 2 protocol issues in the base spec. The first one is the in the inter AS case, the if you are doing upstream PE seduction based on the unicast routes you may either you may get into traffic black holes If you're using selective tunnel, or you can get duplications if you are using an acoustic tunnel. In that draft, John, be best MVP E between simulcast simulcast enhancements perhaps Section 1.4 talk about those issues, and it also talks about solutions to that. Issues. The next one is if you're using non segment to the interiors, using ipv6 infrastructure it just does not work. Because we need to use the source field in the CMODUCAS routes, which corresponds to the pin joints. We In the IPV 4 case, we use that source CSV fields to include, Upstream PE is address that does not work for ipv6. I'm gonna just keep that proper details here. But there are 2 solutions proposed in that same draft, same advocacy enhancement draft."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "And the another draft's, MVP and ipv6 infrastructure tracks. We have had a lots discussions on the mailing list between the authors of these two drafts. We have not reached a conclusion. Just I think on Monday, I I sent out, sir, not the email to revive with that discussion. At least my personal opinion at this time, is that's, we have a simple solution in the latest, version of the CMOD cast enhancement Drafts. That's just my personal opinion. We need to discuss it further on the many lists. Next slide, please. So there are also, some desired enhancements The very first one is what I just presented. Very simple enhancements. And there are some other enhancements that's including the drafts and lifts did distate here and other enhancements. And those enhancements, Probably it can still be tracked, progress separate. Next slide, please. So if, I I I mentioned earlier that we this this draft was brought up when we were considering the adoption requests for those two drafts that, have separate solutions the same problem. And So The base draft coulds, try to address the problem, but, or that the problem could be, progress separately as well. But either way, we first need to decide how we're going to solve that problem. Next slide, please. So let's just say if we decide to go with a separate with the best script, then we would add solutions for the two product issues I mentioned earlier. We could also, fold that's, source active route enhancement that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "just talk about into this. And we can also fold some of the existing RFPs see content into this piece draft. For example, 6515 that infrastructure address issue that clarification. And the wildcards and the MLDP in effect, including those are the basic, actually, the basic features of the basically, I'm APN. And, Also, RFC 9081, the source active routes interaction they could also be folded into this, but there are a lot of other or RFC's content, they should be attract, separate the day. Next slide, please. So working group discussions, especially on those two outstanding protocol issues and their proposed solutions, need to discuss them, decide what to do with those, and then decides whether we want to have a bit strapped or not. So That's basically the presentation. Yeah. Faniels. Have a couple of couple of minutes for for any comments or questions. So quick question, Jeff, firstly, can you could you just state your name first, please, for Sure. Ali said Jesse. So, Jeff, first, I think it's a great idea if you can consolidate, bunch of this draft into the base, makes it much easier for someone to reference, and, also, avoids duplication a lot. The question I have is on page, page 2, I guess. The list was much longer than page 6. So is page 6, list is a subset of page 2. To do that. Or was it 2, or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "This is page 6. And then if you go to page 2 Right. So, there are a lot of feature extensions I don't think there are some of them should be folded into it. For example, the global tape on multicast And, actually, that could be discussed, but then there is a virtual hub and spoke support interior segmentation, an upstream redundancy. I think those the the the those features could, could be better or trapped separately. And instead of being folded in the single one. Yep. Yep. Okay. Thanks. Okay. Kerava then. Yeah. Yep. First of all, I think it's a good idea, to have a base, version. A question for you, Jeff Reyes, is Is it the, the the goal of the abyss version to have as the 70, the 6514 text, text, with references to the new RFCs for or to actually add a text on top of it. Otherwise, you end up with a huge spec, right? And maybe that defeats, the purpose So I don't know what your thoughts are. Have not thought about the reference, aspects. I we we have some basically software issues to address also have some, existing RFC that's as clarification or some simple enhancements to it. And those will be nice to be having the same RFC. That's how we started this. And as far as the reference, purposes, I have have not. Okay. Thought about that. Alright. And the other thing is, there are a couple of them that are relevant, not only for MVPM, but also EVPM, if you fold them in their best, document, then you're still"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "need to address EVPN somewhere. Right. So, yeah, the the c multicast MAP and EVPC markups, That one covers quite a few issues, including the solution for the MVP protocol. If we were going to do peace traps, I would think that owning the MVPN related smaller issues are fixed. It will be added to the a piece traps. The EVP related or or larger changes is still better to to track them separately in different documents. Okay. Cool. Thanks. It's on the right side. Present I'm looking at agenda the try to enroll Let me let me try and be trying to Yeah. I didn't see it. And the first off security ones, but not Yeah. Let's do this one first then. Are you doing? Yeah. To use Hello, everyone. I'm Krishna Swamy. I will be presenting on behalf of my coworkers, I would like to, you know, welcome both starts"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "Oree Handwan. A to join this, draft. Okay. So this, the EVP and, the first off security draft, was a presented in, IETF 116 and, revision in, So just a quick recap, right, 117. first off, security features like, r dynamic art inspection, end inspection, ipv4, and ipv6, uh-uh source group. So Those today, when we enable it on, AVPN in the in the EVPN deployment. So there are some limitations with respect to multi homing and, mobility. So a new EVPN route has been introduce the DHCP sync route to synchronize the DSCP binding, between the ESI peer, multi home peers, and also to to remote, ps Okay. So the changes in the layer in this particular version. You know, there were a few comments, from that we have, addressed and also made some, editorial changes So you know, we request, the members to provide, any comment or suggestions. And, also, we feel that, this, is ready for a working group adoption. We have an implementation also on, Cisco, Nexus devices. K. Ali? That's what you're indicating. Just want to add that, acknowledged for his contribution. He had some very good questions. And as a result, it helped, the revision of this that we did a lot of clarification. I mean, if you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "do a diff between this rev and a previous rev, you will see the amount of the clarification that we've made to this draft. a result, the And as The draft is in a pretty good shape, especially for the working group adoption. So Just wanted to mention that. Thank you, Ali. Sure. Gotcha. Okay. David Lampter. Are you planning to support snooping pv6 prefix delegation. Which would need to install prefix routes rather than host routes? No. We haven't looked into that. K. That might be worth spending some cycles on. Okay. Thanks. Ericlyn, is this, this is more than just DHCP though. Right? This is all sort of savvy bindings, actually, right, Everything everything that could be a binding anchor for Savvy. No. Not for the salary. But it's essentially all the same information. Is it Okay. So maybe I will answer this question on the mailing list. Sure. Thank you. K. Thanks. Move it. I think I found the slides for that. Chuck. Yeah. No. That's because I'm sharing it. Just just tell say say next slide. I'm up with a different Just tell me what you want on that side. Okay. Next night. So thank you, Hore, for joining this draft and also providing the all the relevant inputs Next slide, please. Okay. So the rev 0 was, presented at, DF 115, and, in this, revision,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:04",
    "text": "we have done some editorial changes, and also we have removed the section 5.1, the gateway MAC mobility procedures, So we are now referring to RFC 7432 base because that already provides the details, Yeah. Next slide. So in the last idea, we are not able to go through the entire presentation due to the shortage time. So we thought, you know, we will go rate again for the benefit of members. Next slide. Type, type So this particular draft architecture and operations, for EVP and a centralized gateway for a first stop, routing for over the, subnets. You know, on a centralized, the, IRB. But there are no changes, with respect to the, the bridge traffic, which is still, located on the layer to, be So this architecture mixes of asymmetric IRB, defined in Rfc 9135. Nephropics, Yeah. Yeah. Let's, look at the control plane, operation, right, as in this, background, the hosts are, in connected to the layer 2 piece. And, we have a set half or redundant centralized gateways. So the the first operation on the centralized gateway PE to advertise the default, Mac, route Right? So now and also, you know, the MAC IP routes received from the, the LTE only PE So will be imported into the MacBook for the for the bridging and, and it will make use of the asymmetric irb procedures for, IP to IP to Mac, Mac Minding."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "Okay. And, yeah, Next slide. Please. Please. Please. Please. Please. Please. Please. What? On the layer 2 gateway piece, right, we are defined rponedendi, snooping is a must. Because this is going to simplify the, the architecture. In a way that, you know, the CAG PEs, they don't need to do any data plan or learning and no need to synchronize the ARP and any table, between the redundant tags. Also, the L2PEs, can also enable this the snooping, right, where they could, store this gateway Mac in the in in the r pandemic as such that, you know, locally they could, respond to are banned, and for the labor solicitation, request. Okay. Yeah. To the next slide. Yeah. So now just, look at the data plane operations. As you see on the right hand side, the L2Ps, if it is a bridge traffic. So there are, no no new changes, Right? Now, the WLAN, if if for the IP traffic, between the VLAN 10 and the VLAN 20. Right? So the L2PE is going to do a bridging, for the traffic, because it receives with a cag, the gateway Mac IP from the CAG, the CAC PE. So on the centralized gateway, we you know, we do an an IP lookup and that will If the subnet is locally attached, or it is part of the the l 2, fabric than, the lookup is going to lead to an, l 2, the Mac. A a adjacency where, you know, it it it does the it follows the asymmetric, IRB procedures and, rewrites the Mac and,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "you know, forward it to the, the L2P if it is and, L3, if the subnet is not attached it to the, to their locally or to the the l 2 fabric, then, the lookup is going to derive an l VP and tunnel, and we'll be forwarded to the the LDP Next slide, please. Okay. So as I mentioned earlier, right, be, referring so we will the procedures on 74, 32 biz. Yeah. That's like Yeah. So there are 2 deployment models, I know we have listed in the in the draft. The one is an, interconnect. So basically, Segregating, the layer 2 only domain with the layer 2 and the layer 3, domains. In this example, it will be the the domain 1 will be the layer 2 only fabric and, tunnel 2, the domain 2 will be the layer 2 on the layer 3. So the cactus will be a stitching, between the, both both the domains. So this model is, you know, is quite scalable because we are segregating the the domains. And, yeah, the CAC B, he's have to do the necessary, whenever they are, advertising the route routing the Mac IP routes from one domain to other domain, you know, change the next app to to the CAC PE and also, update the the labels, I'd like this. Yep. So in this model, right, the the CAC P is, are, also providing, distributed any cached gateway for the hosts which are, directly, you know, attached. And providing the centralized gateway services to layer to, fabric, the host behind the the l 2, L2Ps."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "So this model simplifies the operation where you know, there are no separate domains here. So but most of the other procedures, what is going to be the same with respect to the control plane operations and data plane operations. Yeah. Next slide, please. Okay. Yeah. We request, you know, more feedback and comments from the working group members and also we feel that, you know, this draft is ready and good. For, working group adoption. Himanshi. Himanshu from Sienna. So while I'm I read this. I didn't see anything different Then what is already specified for asymmetric IRB? Is this just a documentation of various network topologies and how and where asymmetric IRB is useful and all that stuff. There's nothing protocol related changes or nothing. That is true. We are not providing any, protocol related changes. Yes. So this is like, you know, we're prodding how this could be deployed. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So this is in informational RFC type of process. I think we could, make it informational, but we maybe, yeah, we can discuss on the list. Okay. Chat for chat for chat So I kinda just get a Maybe a So I sent to the room about who's read this draft. I'll I'll do a quick think it was Start start a quick show of hands, Paul, as well on the on the taco."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "For those who are just entering the queue, actually, you can use the pole So sorry. Can you raise your hands again in the room if if you've read it, k. We've got about the same number. Same number virtually. Okay. Thank you. So, Niraj, Yeah. I just wanted to comment on the you know, whether it should be informational or scans. I mean, we can certainly discuss on the you a bit more. There are even though there are no new, you know, on the wire, protocol or routes that, you know, protocol aspects they're defined. They're certain, you know, there are certain must haves that are defined with respect to, apendy snooping in order to avoid, you know, in order to avoid art syncs and data plane based art learn on the cat piece and so forth. Right? And, so So, yeah, certainly open to suggestions, but, but but that the reason why it was, you know, originally put on standard track Okay. Any other That's good. Thank you. Okay. Thanks. Sorry about the feedback from the mic at the front here."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:10",
    "text": "Okay. So this is, second time, I think in it here. This is for the BGP enabled service for SRB6 and those are the, the Nikos Is it what? Just just tell me that because, That's not plugged into the next Okay. So here's a a scenario. Okay. So in the SIV6 domain, most of traffic goes through SIV6 those are perceived as, secure because the provider managed network but there are some special, flow services like financial service or high sensitive services, require encryption. So this is for this scenario. This is very similar to secure eBP and secure increased all the client traffic over UPN, but this is only select a few, maybe 1 or 2 flows encrypt them and place them onto the enterprise. SRV 6. Next page. So here's the desired data plan. The the encryption is for the payload. And s RB6, SRH header has to be outside encryption. So that a savvy 6 network all the PEs can, places traffic following the particular, policies through the So that's the desired data plan. Let's look at the control plan. So the control plan is, very similar to SF 6. You may have them preset. BTP prefix set. Those has to be there. Only one thing need to be added"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "is very similar to, secure EVP is adding, the encapsulation tunnel, tunnel encapsulation attribute. With the TOMO encapsulation attribute, it can specify which IP stack. I say this particular flow need to be placed into. So the node can inform other peers of them desired IPSec properties. And, we need a new tunnel type, we call it ESP payload. Is basically ESB encrypted payload, for those kind of flow. And more importantly, the, the sit has to be outside. Okay. So, here, just the summary of, what we need We need a new tunnel type called ESP payload, sync in secure E VPN, they have, transport or UTP transport, but this one doesn't need that. We just need a new type. And all the other, subtiers to describe the ipsec is already described in the IDR draft called SD WAN Discovery. They have a defined all the, sub TLVs defined either sending the exact information about the IPSec or pre established ipsec may include the ipsec ID, septist. So that's it. Next slide, please. So, next step. So This is very similar to EVPN, a secure EVPN. So option one is to adding a new type into security VPN. However, the secure VPN drop has been installed. It's been, expired. So I'm not sure if, the authors want to pursue that. If they don't, then this has to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "follow an independent, separately. Okay. I see Ali is there. So I need his feedback on if he's gonna forward with the secure EVP Go ahead, Alex. Okay. Yes. I mean, definitely we want to move forward. Just, the, queue for the As you, you know, the queue is so so long that, our existing is not moving forward. Let alone, the new draft. So However, I'll I will resurrect it, and I will ask for a working group last call. What the As you saw, the working group last call queue, it is pretty long. First, second, comment that I have is in section, 9 so when you're asking about merging with EVP and draft, are you asking to add this, as one of the encapsulation, we have in section 9 Yes. We are asking to add a new, tunnel type you define the 2 terminal types in your secure VPN. Right? So we would like to add a new tunnel type to indicate this particular flow need to be carried by as for RAV 6 and then give them, sub tier ways, which similar to what you have describing the secure UAPN. So, sounds good. I mean, we can let's see the offline. There are so this is very similar with, VXLAN instead of the inner Heather, they encapsulated or encrypted, I should say, encrypted packet to be Vx run packet, the encrypted, packet, in here is one of the ones that, let me see the format that,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "I'm sorry. The format that you have in here I I miss. Okay. I missed the Yeah. I mean, if you go back to the encapsulation backwards. Yeah. At atatat that this one, this is the desired data plan. So only different from your VXLAN is your baseline header is inside, encryption. Inside ESP tunnel. And here, our IPs sorry. V 6 header, s rv6, s r h has to be all site. So that's the difference. Right. So the okay. So the In our packet is good old IP, and the author is IP, 4, SRV 6. Yes. Yes. So it'll be great if we can add a new tunnel type into your you VPN make it, just simple. Just, just another Sure. Let's discuss it. And then one other question is with respect to the Trevor Soul. Have you considered how this service is Is the No. No. No. Because there's a V Six. Does it need to go through the net driver? So and if So it doesn't need a net. For the, even though for the prefixes on the prefix part, No. Okay. So, Let's have a quick, offline chat, and I think, talking about the, you know, whether we only need this and cap to be part of the section 9, or we need something additional additional Okay. Thank you. Sure. Yeah. Linda, this is Darren Duke's. Just a note on the desired data plane encapsulation, this is essentially what already exists for ESP over ipv6. Right? There's no nothing new here. No. There's nothing new on the budget plan side. Yeah. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:05",
    "text": "Okay. I'll move on. Thank you. Okay. Let me see if this phone. Yeah. This. Yeah. Hi. Can we do the other one first? Okay. Trying to find out. Yeah. The Yeah. The the the the view I'm getting on days tracker here isn't the same as the view that listeners to be some seems to be out of sync, but what we thought we had uploaded the LRS That's if you can group policy. You don't have that? And Yeah. found I it. I got Okay. Very good. Awesome. Okay. I am presenting, this is a list of the authors, and I am presenting on their behalf next slide, please. So a little bit about the history of this draft. It is a merger of the two drafts that have been around for quite a while. One drafts with VXI and group policy and the other one,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:03",
    "text": "W Lynn Best Group Policy ID extended community. So one, is On the first one is on the data plane. How to, Incorporate and group policy ID in a VXLAN header. And the the second draft is how to extend EVPM and pass this group policy ID. And, it uses extended community as the name implies. So the two drafts, the reason for the merch is there's a lot of synergy between the two drafts. The two drafts are pretty short draft, and they are complementary to each other. One, talks about the data plan and the other one, the control and it is both, you know, the 2 are both sides of the same coin. So that's why the decision, to do the merge next slide, please. So, The data plan draft, has been around for over 10 I mean, it first got published 2014. And, it has been implemented by multiple vendors. And, the control plane draft has been around, for almost 2 years. And, it also has been implemented by multiple vendors. So although, there you know, the revision is rev0individual, but it is misleading the revision because it is a merger of 2 draft, which has, that been around for a long time and been implemented already."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:02",
    "text": "Multiple vendors. Next slide, please. So the whole thing is very simple and straightforward. We are adding, in the VXLAN Heather, we are, incorporating the group policy ID in the reserve a field, a field And, also We're adding a couple of, flags in the reserve field. From And, you can see the group policy ID on the other right portion of the that used to be a reserve field. And, the two flags on, is one gigabit. The first bit. And then the other one is a bit, which is in the next slide, then we are gonna get to it. So the whole idea of this, I think, the idea of this group policy ideas are very well under too that, you associate a group policy ID, for a number of users a number of applications. And, based on this group policy, you decide based on this, group policy ID, you decide which users, to have access to all the applications and who to talk to who, at the policy ID level. So, next to slide, please. Oh, before going to the next slide, the g bs, again, pretty straightforward. If you have the gbit set, that means they're, policy IDs, present and as defining this draft. And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "If the Jibith is not set, then, you know, you, you treat it just as, the reserve bid, which is 0, and based on the RFC, 7348. Next to slide please. A bit. So David, says that whether, the policy being applied or not. So, if the a bit is set, means the policy has been applied and doesn't need to be applied yet again. But, if it is not set, then that means the receiver should apply the policy. So, next is light, please. Moment. So on the control plan, Again, on the data plane, we have the policy ID on the control plane. We, define a new extended community, to pass this policy ID And the along with it, We, define a policy idea scope to help for the inter domain event. Different group, when different policy IDs for different domains are, basically, they are defined in the context of that policy ID escrow. So different policy ideas scope will have different 16 bit space. And that comes in handy when you go from domain to domain and you need a policy ID translation."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:02",
    "text": "So, next slide, please. The draft talks about 3 cases of backward compatibility. That needs to be considered one is when the NVs, don't so for this group policy in either data plane or, control plane. Second, NV is that support, group based policy in the data plane, but not control plane. And, MV is a support, group policy in both control plane and data Lane. And then Nets Fork can consist of all three of them. And the question, is to ensure network that has a mix of these they can, they're compatible. And it can work. So the draft talks about, these three cases. Next slide, please. So interconnecting multiple EVPM, we excellent, domains in the draft, covers that and says that, the domains can have different group policy ID assignment. And thus, when we, go from one domain to another, you know, the policy ID needs to be translated or a change. And, scope ID, basically, facilitate such translation, because it identifies what domain, it belongs to. So it used for that purpose. Next to slide, please. So,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:00",
    "text": "Given that, you know, This two draft have been around for a while. And, if you look at the draft, I mean, we basically are not introducing any new thing in here. It is Really, the merger of the 2 draft for purpose of the simplification Off. Going through this process. And, making sure that when the reader is The data plan part also reads a control plane in one place. So they've been around for quite a while. It's been implemented by call vendors, and based on all all these, you know, the authors would like ask for a working group adoption call even though it is revs, 0, it is truly not rev 0. I mean, you can think of it. We are asking for working group adoption of to existing draft. You know? Hi. Thanks, Ali. And just, kinda put two hats on at once. Yeah. Yeah. The best best chair and and NVO 3 chair. Typically, Typically aspects of, Vx Landau's plane, been done in NV03. And there is also In addition to that, we I think we can typically do extensions to VX LAN, but she any changes to the VXLAN header are not really owned by the ATF, per se, That was that that the actual RFC for VXLAN was, done through the independent Strange. So I think we need to look very carefully on where that part of this work sets. So it's probably a reason why in a way why drops my 1000 Really? Hasn't been published. Kinda needs a home. So, Jeff, I I see you kinda nodding as well. Shonza. Is there anything from a sort of routing working group perspective?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:01",
    "text": "Didn't book myself to the queue, So I I agree with the, not completely data play and extensions should be done. And then we are 3 probably. If anything and the GBP draft has never been on top and actually considered as a hack on top of weeks long. So even cell drop does exist, and it's useful And their variety of implementation rational vendors, I mean, the IETF process it didn't come to consensus about the draft. Right? So we are the fastest standardizing the implementation, not the lower run. So I understand why you are merging it. It simplifies a lot. But there's work in Nville, and there's existing draft in best So the w lens draft tow. Do we really need this draft? To merge stuff that doesn't really belong in best I'm I'm not sure it's under the chair. So So let me respond. Okay. Good points being raised by both of you. And, if you look at it, that, basically, we've had precedence where we where we needed to modify the data plan, and we've capture it in the draft, and we present, you know, we covered it in the best. And this one is this is, I don't know. To me, it's a pretty, like, a simple and a straight forward. I we had Like, in NVO3, we had multiple camps. 1 on the Jenny, 1 on the VX land and, one on the NVCRE. But within the VXLAN, was a single camp."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:02",
    "text": "And, are you saying that within the VX LAN camp, this, you know, there is there, there are some concerned with respect to this encapsulation I'm not aware of any concerns regarding Bixland, but the So the just a little bit of history on the standardization of VXLAN. We were not able to take VXLAN forward as a standard track RFC. And VX-ray. Right? Because of because, basically, it was brought in by various vendors that that, you know, wanted to retain some control over it. So It went through the independent stream. Okay. Making so I don't know what the status is of making standards track extensions to that? No. So, that's actually a very good point. So, we can change that to informative. I mean, from a standardization. From Yeah. That's let's kinda take this to offline and have a discussion with our AD and and between the authors and us and the ID. Of the other lenders of websites. proper the Sounds good. But, yeah, so I think you're just quickly, okay, Yeah. Yeah. I irrespective of where this is done. I think it's we want or not, the explanation is all over the place, and this is, a good solution for for VXLAN. So that was that was one comment. Alia, I had a couple of questions about the document itself. So in one section, you say that the extended community, you can advertise it with an AD per EVA route. When the group policy ID is associated to the attachment circuit, Is that even without multi homing, or you meant with multi homing."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:04",
    "text": "That's, both Vitol without multi homey. Because if it is on a just, AC bases, then I see where you're going with that. Because the ESI of single homing is 0. Okay. So so that, that, presents a bit of challenge. So sounds good. Let's take it offline on that Maybe it is gonna be just limited to the multi home. Alright. Yeah. And the, the other one is there's a section about each VPN to IP VPN interworking. I understand the, control plane aspect and the propagation of the extended community. But what about the, data plan? Because, obviously, in the EDPM side of things, you you have VXLAN. But on IP VPN, you don't. So that section, I guess, is only valid for the ingress enforcement but not the egress enforcement. Is that correct? So, 3. Between the, the VX, for The VX LAN can be used for also in case of the IRB, right, The VX Land encapsulation can be used for the l 3 routed. We are using the MAC address of the gateway as a inermack. Sure. But I'm talking about, specific section on IP. On the just for L3 VPN, Yeah. So that's for that one, I think,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:01",
    "text": "I, agree with you that if it is just if you If it is just, L3 VPN, I think, it might be unidirectional enforcement. Is Ben on the call? Yeah. I can take that question. Yeah. Can you unmute me? I can take that question. We we can hear you. Just just go ahead and need to move on very quick yeah. Then we because we're nearly out of time. Yeah. Okay. You've you've brought a good question. The reason This is, put it in there. We haven't put a whole content on that because they still need a protocol work because, When we go over from the boundary from BXN to MPOS. VXLAN is okay. You can put the group based policy in there. When it comes to MPS, does not. But we actually, have it's not a spell out in the draft, but whether to translate to us special label or basically different MPS level mechanism when we're still evaluating. That's why we need to go that last time case network, but it's not spelled out in the draft yet. Okay. Okay. So, basically, work in progress. Gotcha. Yeah. Alright. Thank you. Okay. Last comments from, iTunes, and then we have to close. Yeah. I'm from, I want know, to What's your driving force to reactively trapped. And and and as you explained, jobs had, at least about 10 years. So is there any other a new, use case to deactivate And the, the reason that I ask is, you know, We have proper the some other use cases, but the similar controlling and,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:01",
    "text": "for the employee extensions. So I think if There is no auto new new use case for you to draft we we, we want to merger that to proper, together because because our solution is a is similar. So, solution is so I cannot comment with respect to, merging fair to the What the if it is on the v I mean, this is very straightforward. Very simple. And, is being in, deployment for quite a while. So If you want to discuss with respect to, your and what you're talking about, we can consider it if it is mergeable or not, that is fine. We can discuss that. Yeah. The content to properly use the the use case is different, but the solution is very same here. So I mean, is it the VX Landis? Yeah, we also do the big excellent extensive and also the autoplay and extensor. By the way, you you're a different Yeah. Can can we can we can we move on that shift? I think we need to sort of take the discussion to this because I just wanna give Adi, like, 5 minutes because we are we are technically out of time. So We are technicalities, kinda, and stuff. Right. Yeah. So I, I'm gonna skip the my each redraft. For the sake of the other draft. And, Let me give you a few minutes to the last, to the optimized IRB. And frankly, that is Yeah. So, maybe a few minutes should be sufficient. Hey, everyone. Welcome to Chase. They are almost out of time, and that is not fair for, the next presenter"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:02",
    "text": "We are out of time. We are we are out of time. I'll get this so this year, saying you were gonna do this one. Yes. Yeah. Uh-uh. Can you just keep it very short, though? And then Okay. ahead, please. Wonderful. Go Yes. Sure. Thanks, Adi. So, yeah, I'm presenting the all three, optimize IRP and, welcoming, Hawaii to be a new, a co a quarter and in the rev 0 actually has been presented in the F108 and covered over solution, and either today, we're gonna cover rep 0102 basically, we'll provide you a new option. Option b, we card and also propose the IRB flag and in route to, to where add some coby, the the the caveats and also the route, handling and also we expand the coverage to the ipv6 and the message as well. As well. Next slide. Yeah. This is the they're, because of a time constraint, maybe, quickly go through this one. This is the rev 00 recovered. Why we need this, l optimize the IRP and the the fundamentally, the idea is to make their their their, interest subnet bridging as, to to be routed as well so that, from the P side, the PE only need to maintain the local connected IP host map. In their traditional bridging, you, the other piece has to meant, install all the remote host host a Mac and the with the op L3 optimized IRP, the P only need to install the local connected I I, IP host. So that's the that's the correctly improve the scale. And in the in the rev 0, we cover the option a, which is the unconditional ARPA response and, and also covered the interop"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:00",
    "text": "as well. Next slide, In the Rev 1, we added a new option which is the optimization on top of the unconditional response. So in this case, the when the, L3, the L3 optimized IRB We'll only respond to, up request if a host is known. In the previous one, even the host is unknown, it's gonna respond and attract traffic and cause the first, death packet loss. Potentially. And, if this, in the option b, if the target host is unknown, the P will not respond the ARPA request immediately instead, it's gonna reoriginated op request to discover the host across the fabric next slide And once there are the holes, these learned for example, in this case, host, 2 respond and, the, the host tool is learned and advertised via the evpnrt2microcapitroutandthenafterthat all their subsequent are will be respond with the correct host 2s, max so that, it's because no on the P 1 and then the dock traffic will keep flowing. From, from the next slides. And the advantage of the option b is, it's solves the first, data packet loss issue, which might be critical for some application TCP or some, application which is very sensitive to the peculas and also it will not create the unnecessary up cache if the, target host is unknown because option a is gonna unconditionally respond. And in, in the option B, it will not respond if the target is unknown. And she the from the internal point of view, choosing option a and the option B is a local her So it will not create any in top issues,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:03",
    "text": "essentially, the, the target host actually is discovered by the op request either being originated or by reoriginated. So option b is the recommended approach next slide. In the red one, we also proposed the the optimize the IRB flag to be the bit 16 of the existing EVPN are in the extended community defined by the IC 90, 40 7. Next slide. And in the rev rev 2, we, added some new caveats on top of the existing one, like, TTR specify in Rev 0. We added 2 more like the ipv4acd is not supported and, there are not is not supported from ipv6 conveal because fundamentally if we allow those packet to go through, it could, pollute their CE's Mac table. And actually from our L3 optimizer RP point view, they are not needed. Next site. And in route 2, we add to the because, from if you can point view, if you can allow advertising the Mac only and Mac happy route. So for, all three IRP yearly, we just use the MAC IP route. So we add a statement saying PE should not advertise Mac only route. And he must advertise the with the L3 optimize the RFP flag. But if a PE choose to advertise both Mac only and then Mac IP, then both should carry the same flag so that, on the receiving side, the MAC will not be installed in the that plan as defined by the Rev 0. Next slide. In the rep 2, we standard, the, message handed into the ipv6 and the as well. The procedure is pretty much the same, and I'm not gonna cover all the details but, overall,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:06:02",
    "text": "their their the behavior are same as, our, our message with some, ipv6 specific and next slide. So yeah. We are we are solicited for more input on the mail list and also we are asking for the our group call. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. So I I think that brings us to the end of the session, but can I just just ask people to to review this draft and and send any Any comments to the list? And, With that, I think we're more than out of time. Thank you very much, and see you in Vancouver. Can you hold on? I can have There's a very high pitched get your feedback coming through from somewhere. Is it Hello? The state did you hear the state back? Must a be standing wave in the room. Yeah. Yeah. Like 15 k or something, isn't it? It's not really up. Yeah. Yeah. I can help you in. So sorry not pitched. That's It's just email. Unable to have some nice minor didn't you did the monologue and just on the separate outright. You didn't do them on my Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's great. Thanks very much for your help. does. No. I'll as he I'll clean it then as soon Because I already on the the exercise."
  }
]
