[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "foreign hello hmm how are you foreign fine thank you very much excellent boy that was that was a hang time I thought I I you know of course I had my uh I had all my sound off because we were uh I was doing the uh remote participation meet Echo client in the room so I didn't want to screw that up and uh so I was like how many things did I have how many places did I mute this where I need to turn it back on I answered your question while on mute oh okay that that would do that yeah so I would like to uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "thank the working group for uh being here to provide uh um adult supervision now that Michael and I are still recovering from uh our uh ITF meeting last week but uh yeah I didn't I didn't travel so it was just time zone I just stayed up all night yeah like that that's a massive Improvement I actually think it's easier to change your I think if you actually are in the correct time zone you get all the sun reinforcements to changing your clock yeah whereas you know being asleep at 10 A.M and then you go to the bathroom and the bathroom is you know fully Sun lit and you're like oh wait yeah well of course the other thing is for everybody in your time zone is uh calling you in your time zone right so yeah well it was difficult when my kid was little and I didn't understand why I couldn't play with him I was home but I couldn't play with him right have you been bad exactly cool uh so uh welcome to everybody else of course as well and uh so uh I've done a little chewing on the uh agenda that we have in uh headstock uh since this morning so um yeah it seems like you didn't send it so I think maybe a few people aren't here because they forgot about it I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "guess I that's weird because when you post the agenda it's supposed to send it out and I agree it didn't go out so I just sent another message just three minutes ago yeah thank you thank you and I was like huh that's weird Why didn't it go out so um I don't know I mean I did post the agenda to the system so like maybe it just didn't work is this a is this a we need to send a note to somebody about that not working or is would they I think I think maybe we should should ask the question yeah um like isn't the agenda normally go out when we post it um or is that no longer a thing or cool we should start so we have a couple of more people one more person has joined in the last I think and we should probably start typing our names in places want me to do yours thank you so it says say agenda and if we go to list archives okay and I figure I'll type margins uh name in because uh he's uh been he's been typing so busily on flag but uh yeah I guess so so it didn't send it did not post an agenda"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "huh okay all right well while you're doing that um maybe I'll send the mail complaining about why I didn't do that why it didn't send a message perfect perfect and it'll take me a second to get everybody's uh name spelled correctly and so stalling is is working well and cool do we want to uh accept the meeting from the uh except the uh yeah do we do we want to remind people of the no well first and then perfect um so this is greatness and uh okay so that happened so now would we like to um accept the meeting minutes from the last meeting did we yeah this is 10 28 and is that actually what's beneath here I got I thought I said that I thought that I sent that out to the group but um yeah it looks like it is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "I went and fetched it from the data tracker to be sure perfect thank you yeah I just read them 10 minutes ago and things are fine fine excellent perfect so uh accepted without uh objection okay greatness um I updated the uh working group document status and two um large-ish sets of changes um for atrovska it is now waiting for write up because the last call ended and basically Murray should be um as soon as he recovers from his uh ITF meeting he he should be he should be putting this on a agenda for an upcoming um ISD telechat where every everyone will ballot on it uh on the document there and uh actually if we are um kind of walking our way through the Milestone review a little bit and then latroska issues um so uh so basically the waiting for write-up is basically just uh just Murray uh making sure that uh he's happy with the thing being balloted by the entire isg uh and then putting it on an agenda so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "uh on that on the technical uh aspect there there's there's nothing that we are that there's nothing that we are gating on um so um we have a agenda item about uh whether we have any issues coming back from working group last call or ITF last call or random internet reviews did I type that good Lord probably I might have I may have typed it um so um if you look at the data tracker for these drafts um there's a thing that says uh what um review team uh reviews have been assigned and we did get one back from gen art I believe and uh when I was checking about an hour ago um the secure Security directorate review uh had not been filed yet which probably doesn't mean anything except the security guys were at the ietf meeting last week from Jin art it says almost ready didn't send it um that should be that is I think I think they mean with almost ready that the review says the document is almost ready the the review is completed the opinion of the reviewer was that it was almost ready and that review was done uh about a month almost exactly a month ago yeah uh Ellen Davies is good so yeah I I I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:04",
    "text": "remember this discussion and I think that actually he's a little bit he's uh he didn't quite understand some of the parts but um yeah and Andy said that yeah yeah um do you does anybody remember if we replied to this yes I'm pretty sure yeah yeah okay cool yeah I'm pretty sure yeah okay yeah so there was a discussion about this yeah container format uh we changed that to archive.org reference and you responded to this question um about how we dealt with versioning and um I don't know that he understood the answer but he did get an answer incomplete due okay well yeah does it says cool um do they have to review the new draft since I made one this weekend they haven't started so they they should review whatever it is that should wind up reviewing whatever it is that's uh current mm-hmm that so so uh yeah um so I started looking uh earlier today which would have been which was later than I'd hoped and um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "we do have formal write-ups of uh uh this part of the ITF process but uh what what they've been what they've been putting on uh the last couple of agendas was like YouTube slide uh YouTube uh videos of it uh so I wanted to get uh I'm going to and I can do this uh write the nice people on the emoder um folks and uh ask if we can get a copy of the slides just for me to run through that part of this the slides with the with the group uh and that I think I had that at the bottom of a thing for any other business for uh For an upcoming meeting but uh but yeah so you're uh Michael what's your walking everybody through um with the reviews as uh as good good good to know so yes um is there anything else that we need to talk about on matroska um I had a question but more for the future but should we start now a document for a version five because we already had I did a few elements as version five and so we need a document to show them to the world and also some might need an explanation so is it right time to start that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "um I would say that no I would just I would just leave it leave it be for a month or so until we get review comments on version four um and unless there's something really urgent but um I can't imagine that there really is but uh just leave them as pull requests or something like that so uh yeah so uh so the way this works and jump in here anytime Michael is that um the so there are 15 people on the internet engineering Steering group and this is a standards track document so that requires at least 10 people to read the document and ballot either yes or no objection so at least two-thirds of the area directors will be uh we'll be reviewing the document and they have not seen it before so you may get uh you may get helpful comments and you may get somewhat confused questions um when I was on the isg I wrote plenty of both so um Michael is Michael is giving us good uh guy uh advice here which is to um it's okay to start but be ready yeah yeah be well be ready to peel off definitely really yeah can we just have it in GitHub I mean it's generated Hinduism make fun yeah yeah sure yes yeah don't just leave it as as there don't don't don't don't go further with it until until we uh have we're clearly stable with what we have um because at this point we could still put those new features in this in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "version four if you wanted to right as far as the documentation process goes maybe that makes no sense from a from the um uh status on the ground right of implementations Etc but but what I really don't I just don't want to confuse the isg into thinking that there's things that we that there's things that we have yet to do that we we actually promise to do right so if it's just new ideas okay just new ideas right but yeah and uh follow-up question that's for ebma my almost same question uh we have at least one or two features that we want to add as ubml2 one of them is rational numbers I think we are good so technical solution now that we just need to make a document for it so I uh same question should we start making a new document and I think a sentence of the previous I think it's a reasonable thing to to start an ebml uh V2 document now um I don't know whether we want to make this document a a diff so we just add things to the existing document or whether we want to really revise the whole thing as Abyss document um I don't know the answer to that question um and we we've actually we've actually got uh a topic later on the agenda that could uh apply to that very reasonably I didn't mean to shut down uh discussion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "I was just saying uh we might want to think about that as part of as part of a diff a different but uh aligned uh agenda item okay actually uh some of the things we want to add in in Metro Square five will need the rational number from ebml2 so I think we should start with ebml okay that mean it should be permissioned before as well but I mean if it's just update document with new things it shouldn't be very big foreign okay cool uh so so and and I think it's probably worth me actually saying this out loud uh for the purposes of all the discussion about um about um what you know um what what when to start what uh the ietf approval process is going to focus on what's in the data tracker not so much what's in GitHub so if we work on stuff in GitHub and don't submit new drafts or new update draft updates um we're not going to confuse anybody that we need to worry about them being confused yeah I agree with you completely"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "so then there will be surprised when we just upload a document that's ready to publish um yeah and it will be it will it will be all it will be awesome if we in fact do upload a document that's ready to be published that would be awesome I'm sorry I I left my uh some of my uh filters for what I say out loud in Japan apparently but anyway I don't know is there anything else we need to talk about on matruska today I I think what we're doing is waiting for Murray to I'll put this on an ATF an isg agenda and uh keeping an eye on uh anything that um anything that comes in in further review comments yeah and then and then ideally during balloting but I think I think we know what to do with matoska not version five and what to do with ebml yeah I don't have any singers for now cool excellent so um we know what to do with that um and did I get that please please feel free to watch my notes more carefully than you usually do um I have funny stories to tell you all anyway um for so for Flack um so uh Martin did the uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "the uh Flack revision uh to uh what is that dash eight uh eight and Spencer thinks station away is just fine as far as my previous comments go uh we've had some discussion on the mailing list haven't we on on Flack yes and I pulled some comments well I I I looked at the replies and made a made a decision before uploading a new version so okay everything is converged perfect so this was the this was the figuring out what the subset thing really is yes well more what to name it yeah um because I think calling it the subset which is what it has always been called is yes rather confusing calling its these ships it format so um at some point I figured it should be named streamable subset but that isn't 100 correct so I asked a few people I got some replies and I decided to stay with streamable subset ah perfect and uh I just I just have to you know I I'm sympathetic with what you guys are talking about from my perspective um the big thing is it's not you know the new subset which you know then the next time you have a new subset you don't know what to call it and and I mean we we should be better at naming things that we are but sometimes we're not so um we will we will get we will worry about that name uh that we will worry about the next name when we see what the next thing we do is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "but uh cool okay so from okay so from Spencer's perspective um dancing back over to the minutes for a second um does anybody need to look at the diffs 4-08 I think most people most people in the working group have already seen all the githubs oh yeah yeah so I don't think so usually I post a pull requests um of push request what is it and I leave it open for one or two weeks and when nobody comments I just merge it so I assume anyone interested has already seen it but um people not watching the guitar might want to look at the diff yes okay cool um so next up on this uh uh Spencer okay so Spencer here let me confuse you less uh but not zero um the uh Spencer Spencer uh has provided uh comments from the shepherd um which have been addressed so what what I'm doing now for Shepherd right up is not uh reposting all those comments and what happened to them and stuff like that that happened in the working group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "um I'm basically filling out a chef a It's Like a Shepherd uh write-up questionnaire uh that I that I write up and post in the data tracker and then uh then I tell Murray um that uh you know basically I change it to uh publication requested and uh Murray should wake up at some point after that sounds marvelous okay excellent [Music] so at that point um be uh we now have our third document leaving the working group um so let the rejoice and continue um indeed do we need to do we need to uh and I'm going to be saying nice things about a number of uh things on the on the write-up just just thank you all um what do we need to talk about on ffv1 version four foreign I don't think much um have we officially okay so in our last um I think he doesn't have a microphone and Jerome is not here oh okay he says last meeting I promise to send"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "an email Notch to the working group but I hadn't done that yet on fv1 V4 okay cool um and so so I'm reading what Dave is saying as saying um we're doing the prioritization on email and um foreign to the people on the call because he's already nudged us um and uh Dave I think it probably is good to uh go ahead and send the email for folks that might not be on the call does that make sense perfect are we prioritizing these in email or in GitHub GitHub well and Dave is going to send a wake-up call to the mailing list okay cool um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "did I I'm sorry I thought oh I I'm sorry I thought I had moved this uh and I might have moved it back down um Michael did you did we want to talk about so I was I was going to bring up the RC irada process um question on this call uh but I I might have not that I might have decided not to do that because I wasn't sure if you were going to be available at the beginning of the call yeah so I'm yeah so I made it back obviously um so um I think we should talk about it um to me it's pretty obvious but uh it's probably worth seeing what's obvious to me cool I'm I'm moving this up into the again this so I can take notes and perfect so um what do we want to say about this sorry I missed the question so I'm I'm typing Mike uh Michael you want to um uh get us started on framing uh so so um the issue is that um uh once our documents are published as rfcs they're immutable um however uh there's two things that happen one is that um it's possible and this group likes to do that uh to you know post issues and changes and propose text in GitHub um the problem with that is that it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "makes it to some people who don't understand the RFC is immutable then it tends to attract uh uh comments and fixes or additions uh which actually need to go through a process um on the other hand having a uh uh a thing in a document in the GitHub which is you know correct and complete has some value provided that it has consensus on the other hand uh the RFC editor has a has an Errata process uh where we basically you the ads an item to a database and ideally what you do is you provide a this is the old text which is a broken and here's the new text which fixes it and usually I would say seventy percent of the time it's you know uh recognizing that there's a A misstatement in the English there's you know something that's just not quite right and it and it may lead to a wrong technical understanding and sometimes it's just you know what there's some typo and we missed it um so but there are Errata where we need to clarify some existing situation that has a technical impact and people have done it wrong or misinterpreted it um in general Errata are not used for new features so that's a new document okay um so the issue is uh we should uh whenever we have find um technical or editorial mistakes in the document we should file a rata for that and we can also fix them in GitHub and that's fine um the issue is that we need to be clear which ones are uh Errata fixes and which ones may be just people suggesting an entirely new feature version 5 for instance for um um what was it matroska"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "um so we just need to be clear because not everything has the same level of consensus understanding um and probably we should have a branch that is for each RFC as it's published we should probably create a branch in GitHub um and say that's where we would put uh typos and fixes like that that are also written down as a rata that would be the best thing and then you know we can merge that Branch uh when we have new version at that point we do well matroska already has the very nice build system to um well split the versions um I I think for for Flack The branching off would be the best solution yeah even though we have the build system the thing is I want to be really clear uh for people who are outside of the this working group um that you know their when they look at it they are not confused into thinking that some of the proposals are in fact already have consensus okay so should we Branch off the um the stable States or should be branch of the State without consensus because usually people when they look at the GitHub they look at the master should the master mirror their RFC or shoots the master I'm okay that the master is our work in progress that's understood I think we should have a branch called RFC XYZ uh which we branch which only has the the uh erata that we might apply and uh we should probably update the readme for both pieces to make it clear what their there thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "I'm okay with the branch but on ebml which is the RFC we have published already we have a tag on GitHub that says Errata RFC 97 85 8795 four and so that means if you go on GitHub you you click on that label I sent a link on the chat you will see which one are closed the one star Mouse the ones that are refused you can see the ones that are open you have a natural requests means actual code and issues that's actually things that need to be fixed so basically I think just with the label you know for Outsiders you already have a view of what's been fixed or what needs to be fixed okay so um the conversation we were having is a very good conversation for us to have um but um it would be good for us to uh think about I think we're Spencer's opinion is that we're talking about the way things would work if they if the world made sense uh which is not always the case where we're talking about the RSC system um so if I was to um if I was to um paste this uh link into the chat uh oh sorry I don't know if I cut somebody off no I don't know you were talking I I I heard a sound that sounded like someone uh uh yeah there's a squawk yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "squawking and I was afraid of what I had done to someone okay so up at the top of this um that Michael has just opened there is a thing about uh very okay so this is about not filing Errata but how to verify errata and uh this is something that actually happens um from an area director so like basically and because reasons which we don't have to talk about now um we can say um the area directly that people are going to report Arana and the the area director is going to probably talk to us and then say what should how should I how should I uh how should how should I uh process the Errata that's been filed okay so um and you see the thing about uh is this a is it you know is this is this a technical or an editorial uh type of Verona and then uh these here where we say verified means that we have looked at it and uh we agree that there's a problem and we have agreed that the solution that was proposed is uh is uh uh reasonable or you could be reported I'm I'm going through oh and yeah I don't think we need to go to the details but uh well I think that person Spencer though is that we're likely to receive most Errata in the form of either issues on GitHub or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "and yeah that um what I'm suggesting we should be doing is we should be doing exactly like this with these issues with the Errata but what I would like to do is I would like to have a branch okay in this case we would Branch it already um which says you know RFC 8794 and it's exactly the the the base point of that Branch should be the the exact text that we published with whatever rpcc yes I know I realized that that I realized that right um and and then we should apply these errata to uh as as there and the commitment in the commit message for that Errata we should be referencing you know the the Errata that we've uh URL that we've submitted to here so so that the the GitHub and the RFC editor are are are synchronized in in that process um and since the Iran is being submitted by you know one of us the area director will you know will be clued in and know that oh okay this is we're this is the process we're following yeah if you're a director if the area director has comments or questions uh he he can find us easily enough to ask right so it should be easy but but all I'm saying is that is that and then you know so we have you know read me uh the formal and official specification so I'm saying this sentence should remain only on the branch the RFC 87 94 branch um and that the the master repository should say this is a work in progress"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "um and uh that's all that's what I'm trying to get at so that um if we point someone at you know this new Branch I don't know you saying it it virtually exists already I don't I don't think it does but um yes with an R there we go it virtually exists right so if we go to this if I if I go to this Branch then uh it should say this it's official blah blah blah and um you know it should could have uh uh it's one commit 20 commits behind Master that's perfect right so one commit ahead there's something update the powerful to do so okay so we did that right great so that's all I'm saying is that let's let's just do that I think that's the best way to to live the this I think that that many people will come to the GitHub looking for the latest latest and we need to just be clear to them about which parts are have consensus and which parts don't that's all oh yeah so I actually I I apologize for walking people through the list the thing that I the thing that I was trying to uh get to was the next thing on the list which was held for document update and uh hilfer document update really means that uh this is a good thing to do but that we're not going to agree on a fix now you know we agree that the the Errata is is a problem we are not agreeing on a fix now and um if the document is ever revised this is the critical part if the document is ever revised we'll process it then okay so where I where I was headed with that was as Michael said uh what you're going to find in the Errata system as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "verified or held for document update is not going to be any new features you know it's not going to be you know basically this is uh the the deal with the Errata is saying the RC was published at some point in time and what the working group was thinking about at that point in time was this and uh they may have gotten a few the working group may have gotten a couple of things wrong and so we will either uh we will uh either verify them or we will say yeah that's right or we will do a held for document update um and the next time we revised the document in as an RFC we would we would uh we would process it then a lot of those rejected stuff is uh you know some people have uh that aren't really errors but uh I've seen more that tend to be the ones where it's like um I think that this I think that the way this should work is this other way over here which would be better but it's not what the working group was thinking when they published the RFC does that make sense so what I what I what I think Michael is talking about and it's a long way of me coming around to say that I'm agreeing with Michael is that um people will be able to get uh the a snapshot of the next version of the RFC uh by looking at GitHub uh and and what what's gotten merged about saying that right uh Michael we can see the comments but then at least in our case the problem is that you need"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "to generate the document to actually see the the results for example for Metro scale if we make a change in the XML file unless you know how it's going to generate the code you don't know what the document will change will look like so even if you have a branch and you can see the changes we would need to generate a file somewhere on the site so people actually see the actual document it's like looking at the source code and people expect a program right well in that case maybe you can get analogy you can do releases um with with Errata because the router for ebml came in um what do you call them in a bunch so a few at a time so you could use the GitHub release um yeah I was I was wondering about that I I have not had a lot of experience with that uh I've had I've done some but uh I'm betting somebody here knows more about that to me probably quite a bit more but technically for every uh change we do we actually compile the document into the final version and uh it leads available as an artifact on GitHub for each pull requests actually each build you have an artifact that you can it's a zip file with the HTML and text file I think and the XML file that you can upload uh so that the compile file exists the problem is that I don't know how long they are kept so if we make a one now for example we push something it will generate the file the problem is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "maybe after six months they delete it or something like that I don't think it happens I don't know they don't do it for releases but I don't know if they do it for uh interim jobs or something like that jobs we don't know but I think I think it's enough I I think that what what was said uh Martin said I think it's enough that yeah okay so occasionally we're gonna produce a uh a we're gonna render it and uh produce what's going on and and um and I think that's fine um anyway we'll want to do that so that what we can provide um we can provide text for the RFC editor for the for their um um patch process right okay so uh I think I think that we um and I'm just cleaning up what notes I've taken and please like I say feel free to correct anything I'm getting here but basically so uh so our plan is that we would have a version and get a hub that matches the RC as published and we have a version that matches the RC as corrected um and then we have uh we may also have version uh one or more versions in GitHub that matches uh like the next release and I'm so I'm saying like ebml V2 release of uh of the specification which we would love to publish as an RC as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:09",
    "text": "um I agree with everything you said I don't think I have any comments that sounds fine maybe there's too many versions and we have to back off but well we we may not need it we may not need okay so the easy one is we get something that's perfect uh as the RFC and so we're just working on the next version and nobody ever finds an error so we would not need we would not need that but basically for us to be able to come up with something that somebody could find and understand um yeah okay I feel like we're beating this this it's a dead horse at this point uh and I if no no I I I'm agreeing with you I I I I promise I'm gonna do a better job in 2023 of telling people that I'm agreeing with them before I keep talking uh but I agree with you uh do we want to try to set ebml up that way now uh that sounds like a good plan that's also a good way to do this the first time yeah yeah yes and we're not in the it's not something we're in the middle of publishing right now so uh yeah we're not in the middle of doing anything cool okay so I'll just put that in the notes and um do people have time to take a look at this in the next month and actually when I said the next month I mean like the next three and a half three weeks three weeks yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "I should be able to do it okay so we will uh revisit we will revisit this in at the next meeting and see if this is a good plan okay cool okay now I'll shut up it is what other business do we have well Dave said something in the chat about uh no time to wait seven overlapping with ITF 118. they're both in Prague apparently mm-hmm it's a very good overlap to me cool not a bad thing that's happened yeah that means the hotels are going to be expensive I don't iitf doesn't tend to be so big as to cause the hotels to change prices but the ITF Hotel will be expensive yeah but not all the ones around it uh I haven't looked to see if they published where we're going to be but if we're if we're at the same place we've been multiple times um I I've usually been over on across the street anyway so and it's been lovely yeah there's no venue information posted um I assume it's the same one yeah do we have venue information for foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "perfect Dave where will uh no time to wait be hosted uh he's posted a Google Maps link Kino NFA oh you there's no it's just a location it's not a hotel of course way down there so a couple tram stops way yeah there's no easy way to get from A to B oh well anyway cool we have faith excellent perfect uh and uh Dave was also asking any good ITF parties to crash um I'm a soup well we'll we'll talk we'll talk before I say anything we'll talk I can tell you about them but we'll have to kill you afterwards possibly so uh yeah I don't know was there uh was there a scotch boss on Thursday I'm sure that Hank pulled that off right I I am not I am not the uh I am not I'm not the uh right person to ask no okay so traditionally the ietf has a informal Scotch boss at like 10 p.m on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "Thursday night um but anyway you can toast anything you want but you have to end with a toaster the universal deployment of IPv6 that tells you how long we've been doing that cool oh well it's actually only two subway stops on the B on the B Subway between the two so there you go anyway um all right so anything else from anybody um I like I said I'm really happy and uh thank you all for your for your uh support and help any other business oh cool all right thank you very much everybody make good choices thank you bye all right we'll talk beautiful"
  }
]
