[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:14",
    "text": "hmm so as before if you've got the bandwidth i encourage you you share video let's try to make this um an in person as close to in person as possible meaning i would like the general vibe to be that we're sitting around the table talking with each other not that we're passively listening on a phone call if you've not used medico at an interim recently there are a couple of features that have been added that i want to point out um since we've got a small group here i think we can go ahead and beat up on their server and have everybody connected to the the the server that's doing primary mixing if you start sending audio using the um microphone button that's above the number of participants tab in the left column and just leave that open you can then locally mute with a second mute button that's down in your very lower right hand corner if you do that you will remain connected to the primary mixer at all times and your uh you can unmute and and mute"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "locally quickly without having to uh wait for me to go to switch your media sessions on the back end sorry can you say it again at least the beginning of it which will press okay so there are two mute buttons on your screen right now from midiko the one that's in the column on the left under your name where they got the five icons leave that one open okay now there's one look down in the lower right corner of the medical window got it and there's local yeah okay that's cool it's the uk is slightly um interesting but uh yeah and i don't i'm not involved in the the day-to-day discussions on the evolution of this but this is what we've got i like the slightly different microphone icons that really drives on the point that you're doing something different yep okay so some people are reporting that they're having to do reloads to get their media to work we'll wait just a moment more till we have more people online and online stably i will plan to start at five after"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:09",
    "text": "if you've not already done so please skim through the um the notes page for the meeting i'm assuming everybody has that at hand hey liz cabo is carson borman and again if possible um i see we seem to be bound at nine maybe we are still bound with the number of people who can show on the screen i'd like to see if we can have more people join the video if it won't let you and we're still bound at nine then ah good or not that's awesome all right let's go ahead and get started as you know the the notes page is quite long i'm planning to treat most of the uh sections as take them as read unless somebody brings up questions i'll mention them when i'm about to skip over them if you've got something in them that i'm planning to skip that you want to talk about just interrupt me please so i'm planning to skip over the first two items and start with the item on the ietfa refresh unless there are questions on the itf refresh glenn is currently"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "planning to build a new version of ietfa on a different piece of hardware with a different um version of zen i i'm and glinky you can correct me if i get any of my nouns wrong um that would um and move everything that's installed over into that system have the development team verify that everything's working and then schedule a cut over there is an alternate approach that we could have taken but we're not currently planning to which would involve an in-place upgrade of the os that's currently on ietfa running on the older hypervisor and the older hardware the trade-off here is having an ability to check that the moved systems are functional before we have the cut over instead of repairing any damage that might happen from an in-place upgrade versus continuing to run for a few more weeks on an os that is past its point of getting security updates basically um so our current plan is um that glenn will be working on this new install uh toward for the rest of this month with an expectation that we would start development testing on it the um at the first part of march i don't know that we want to have as big of a disruption as a move to a new machine ietf113 so if we continue down this path i suspect we would do the cut over just after 113. um does anybody have any any issues with that you know fully understanding that we've got the risk of running on this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "older os for another six weeks or better glenn did you have anything to correct and what i what i said yeah you're you're muted characterization i think that um i think that growing the uh build a new rod gives it more flexibility more safety it takes a little bit longer but i don't think it will take significantly longer and i think it would be fine i mean i'll provide either solution that the ietf wants the only reason that i even suggested doing the new server route was because of our experience with the last in place upgrade which was not good so i like to be safe i like to make sure the iutf is up so i prefer the the slow short course but happy to do whatever okay so um let's our plan unless i hear otherwise is that we're going to continue down this building the new server um i'd like to track it kind of closely glenn if we if something comes up that's going to delay um getting to the point where the dev team can test at the time frame that we've been talking on please let me know i think he said okay it didn't quite come through it's all right all right yes that is okay i'm going to take moving the um rrc editor lists over to itfa as red on the svn track conversion you can read about the small repositories that we have moved already we moved the xml to rfc repository"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "earlier today and split out several of the repositories that were embedded inside of it into their own repositories xml rsc is now on github it is going to get um they're going to be some major changes in what's in maine before we really start um developing against it um we'll be beating on it today and tomorrow basically cly will become the main branch and the others will become archived i believe that we're at the point now where um any future xml rfc tickets should be um entered as issues in github and later today i'll be working on closing um the track instance to new changes and trying to find a way to put a banner there to let people know if they've got older links to that to move to the newer the newer location so we've been doing a lot since the last meeting on moving to where we're doing our primary development on github nick in particular has built a lot of tools for us one that's very nice based on a conversation we had with dkg that lets us continue to keep very close control of our private signing keys for signing packages at pi by um that will let us um mechanically do um or pushes sign pushes of of new releases into pi pi without with a very low probability of developer and operator error in the process of making those pushes is a a really nice piece of work by nick we've also built out a lot of ci cd on these repositories acting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "using the rfc to html repository which is the thing that makes the htmlized documents as a testing ground so that commits to the main branch are automatically tested um pushes are automatically tested and the right thing a lot of automatic things happen when we when we cut releases all right any questions on that before i move along a quick question when when do you think we're done with the other repositories before vienna or after before i mean the other repositories all that's left all right that is in this particular project is the data tracker right the reason i'm asking is i'm wondering because this will sort of um really enable the community to participate better than they have in the past at least sort of the the non-core people that are on this call i wonder if we want to like uh talk about this plenary for five minutes and basically say hey you can now like go to get up and fix stuff directly that annoys you yeah if it's not if unless we discover trouble before then yes please do so okay so that would be new probably i don't know what the time zones are going to be for you but um if you make me slide i can talk to it or somebody eric might be there i'll i'll be at plenary you know okay whatever whatever time it is all right so let's let's plan for that and uh we'll we'll uh set aside some time there cool sure all right fools.itf.org we're in truly the very last stretch the long pole is bib xml which i'll talk about separately um kasar is doing the um a set of final things to get the author tools into what we consider a production mode instead of a development mode"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "that should happen very very soon a couple of things okay the author's site is essentially ready for being made live i mean jay did you have anything that you wanted to talk about with people here to make that happen quicker no um i don't think so i think we may have a an error in the template to do with the word joiner um discussions taking place um we have a um a number of suggestions from bob briscoe that need to be incorporated into it but those all just maintenance stuff that could just continue on to its life so you know i i mean i don't see anything i'm really looking for external feedback that says whether anybody thinks any show stoppers here at all whether people are comfortable that we should just um just go ahead with it now so unless somebody brings up discomfort i think that we'll plan to make that the place that we really point people for help over the next couple of weeks all right i've made some progress with figuring out how to provide daily dose on an ongoing basis but i'm not planning to necessarily have that ready before we get to the cut over point so if that bothers anybody let me know um i think offline i don't know that we need this to burn time on the call here other than just making sure everybody sees that that one is going to lag similarly kasara is working on a replacement for bap we have it out there if we need it we can just stand up the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "really simple web service that's built into bill finner's repository that bill and paul kizebot worked on but kasaria is working on something better we'll see if it's ready before we are ready to cut over i've been working with henrik i've got the um final set of redirects located i will reformat them and send them to glenn um we'll be ready to go once we are happy with what's happening with the bibxml service now that service that project has a lot of hot and heavy activity going on at the moment where we're we're now pushing um edge cases around ribose is finding some points of discomfort with their use of relatin um has some expected semantics to the names in the relative format that they're using internally that don't mesh well with the semantics of names of things that we have in the ietf um you can follow some of the tickets that i've linked in the thing to see that conversation and just watch the the primary repository which that figure out at edge case links points into to see what the other the tenor of the other tickets look like i do think we're pretty close um and i think that we'll have um we'll be working on deploying it on our own um devices over the next couple of weeks and i am hoping that in the span of three weeks or so from now we can really cut over to it and start the the tools.iatf.org final parts of the tools.ihf.org transition"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "so i will time that to happen after whatever the draft cutoff is i don't remember what that is on the top of my head but it won't we won't um move the rug out from everybody during the um the hard draft submission press any questions on the bib xml service just as an aside to let people know the royalty the lead at ribose also has leadership roles at organizations like iso and has started has raised the question about how iso should format their references into ietf documents we we as a consequence of some of the conflicts in semantics and terminology that we were talking about um he's now in a email thread with the ietf leadership to get a better polish on what that is and i suspect that's likely going to spill out onto other seos all right let's quickly talk about zulu that sounds like a good thing yeah probably no progress was made on zulip in the last month we seem to have deadlocked on who should have the the token to make this thing go forward i believe my unders my understanding of where we are right now is that we need to figure out if and how we are going to cause new rooms in zulu to have the notewell um what that was going to contain and when"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "it's going to be present i think glenn was looking to jay for um direction on configuration of that uh it's i think sorry rob i think yes i think that's me actually i have an um an unanswered email about the stuff now i need to go back to so i'll have a look at that today yeah okay i wanted to reconform reconfirm that we're on the right target with zulup i am planning on um starting to work with midako between 113 and 114 on changing the back end for medico to zooloop instead of jabber if that makes anybody uncomfortable let me know at the last meeting we i suggested that the iab and isg consider zulu the end result in the meeting was a very tentative well we need to play with it first um i think i've been hearing some um evidence of um no we really don't want to do this from those bodies since then and that they want to stay with slack am i am i correct so i then ask you know um for future working groups is having zulu be the place that we plan to have them do work still the right thing if the leadership doesn't want to go there yeah it's not working mars oh no yep oh yeah sorry that was unmuted the whole time um the reason leadership isn't doing it is because as far as i understand there's no way to not have it be archived um and and that was a concern because we actually have slack channels there that are mirroring the isg only iab only sort of lists that we have also archived"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "so private channels so we should look to see if there is a way in the future to have private channels and that might change the opinion that might change your opinion and and the other thing is that we nobody wants to use two tools right because um that would suck so um yeah but you know if we're going to have working groups really working there then you know the isg at least is going to need to be watching what the working groups do there sure uh that's that but that's it for each individual id to figure out right how they want to do that and but the isg overall i think that the overriding thing was that it's not possible to have non-aircraft conversations either or one-on-one which was possible with me with jammer please fact that in those coffee time where everything is removed we are as i said last time we are really used and we get the community feeling over again it's very precious to to keep until we go back in person meetings which is touching actually right so yeah and there's a question whether or not you can get that level of camaraderie with yeah and using a bunch of slack bots to basically help the mic to my queue we have a we have an app for that in slack and i don't know if zulu has any kind of the same app ecosystem that that's like us all right um unless somebody has any other questions on zulu i'll move forward i didn't mention at the front of the call i'll take the moment now to remind people that this is being recorded will land on youtube so um keep that in mind as you can comment okay go ahead jay yeah sorry i just did a quick search i don't understand this thing about archiving missoula zoo it has um uh organizational wide message retention policies that are then overridden by"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "stream specific message retention policies it doesn't tell me in the documentation how long that message retention [Music] minimum is but i'd be surprised if it's much more than a day or something so it looks as though we can do you know stream specific uh uh you know um messages disappearing after a particular period of time so um i'll investigate that a bit further okay i plan to skip over ftp and web analytics unless somebody has questions on either of those please follow the link that i have at that first sentence on tools workshops there's a github repository that is currently in my area i'll move it to ietf tools after the call um there are a series of workshops that we've talked about before we're going to put together a call sometime in the next very small number of weeks um general tools call but anyone in the community will be welcome to join t prioritize and start scheduling which of these workshops we will will execute on if you've got ideas for new workshops you know please please contribute i'm going to move past track wiki migration to wiki js the crowd source and moving things um casara you want to get high points on author tools in the website"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:06",
    "text": "you're coming through but you're very very quiet how about now can you hear me properly you're still pretty quiet but we you know it was better so on other tools now we can have shareable urls for i draft or rfc comparisons that's the high point on autotools on vactel website the high point would be the update of two new active version anyone have questions comments on what's happening with either of those author tools of the whitetail website i'm going to take the common bootstrap theme work is read please follow the link if you want to know more about it for the data tracker the high point i want to talk talk about you can read through all of what's here is we are running behind cloudflare that's successful over the next few days we're going to try to move off of apache and mod whiskey into engine x and g unicorn you can read about some of the major um development pieces of work that we need to do we did make a change in direction recently on when the when we were going to pull in the bootstrap 5 branch we're going to bring that in first and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "start the time zone aware branch work over after discussing with nick and cassara and jennifer we think we want to re-implement the code that's doing that migrations anyhow so that we all are um very familiar with it instead of you know discovering the work that henry could um rediscovering the work that henrik had previously done aren't we going to see quite a difference in look and feel it will be massively different that that would be a pressure i got from what lars said uh i don't know a month or two ago so it seems to me we need to tell the community before we release that one yeah planning to run it parallel to the sandbox for a while and ask for community feedback get people to exercise it and we certainly would not bring it into production until after the meeting and and to come back robert on the cloudflare part have we already seen a performance improvement or less load in our servers yeah it's only for non-authenticated people right there are links um off to a couple of notes pages that i've created that show the kind of improvements that we've seen they are significant they are not massive um there are things that we can do to move them closer to massive but it has been um quite a bit of help already thank you so yeah i do encourage people to follow the the links that say at running behind cloudflare and smoother overall performance and you know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "browse those send me questions all right kasara highlights on xml to rsc the highlight on xml rfc is now by default any local reference for a file in source directory or the templates directly allowed so people couldn't get the errors that they got if there's a fire ent file in the local source directory so we are looking at restricting the set of domains that by default um xml rsc will fetch x includes from um cassar and i've been working out a set of ways and we think that we'll implement this in the next you know in the next release so that will be domains like the xml rsc.itf.org or its replacement um the rsceditor.org other sdos that are providing web xml like xmpp.org and a few wildcarded sites that would let people pull things from their github repositories but might not put that one into xml rfc we're doing a similar thing with author tools with def for where people can pull things by url for arbitrary diffing um so we'll definitely be looking at the the locations in in github for deaf this all comes into you know do we really want people to be able to cause the data tracker to pull pages from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "arbitrary sites once we might run into problems in the long run with the both the content and just the act of doing a get on a particular domain um we might move further later we'll have some conversations about um submit the the submit tool but i don't think we're ready to launch into those on this call um a second before we get to the next tools call we're going to be talking about what we would accept into what kind of includes we would accept into the repository a little bit different than what we currently do now so i saw that actually just a couple minutes ago that the the poll was restricted and what urls it would fetch and um i i certainly am one who does do that uh particularly to deal with uh you know replies to incremental replies to uh particularly to discuss is to show you know it's this is what i did and here's the two text files that i stuck on yeah often it was github and so that should work fine um so i'm i i guess i guess the two questions are what's the process for getting new new urls new prefixes added to that list um how far where does it have to go if we go that do that and the other part of my question is has this really been a problem up to now with the rfc diff have we really gotten you know abuse complaints or something like that from this so um this is all rooted in things that we learned from the security review of the data tracker that found issues in xml to rsc as the data tracker was using it and the constraints that we're setting up are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "basically built around that i can't point to massive abuse of urls and arbitrary domains but it is very easy for me to construct abuses that would would take that service into very bad places and about get mike so i agree with you that that the potential there for you know doing something is is a problem and as we improve the performance of the diff tool actually we will be improving the ability to attack right the more capacity for doing diffs uh you know particularly if you know we start doing i don't know some kind of uh you know cloud bursting uh you know the day before the cut id cutoff date um or something like that to have extra capacity well that's also adding capacity to attack so i i guess i'm quite okay with the fact that we're going to put that limit in i think that my original part of the question is how and who do would we would we um uh get things added to that list um and you know where is that what is that process just a secretariat request is it going to you know have to go the isg is there well what is it anyone any thoughts to what that process is going to be i think that is really going to be an operational decision so i think it would be me and i would certainly coordinate closely with the leadership on what else we would point to um for getting requests in mail to the secretariat or prs against the relative"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "relevant piece in the uh um code would be the right way to ask so is it it's a list of the code kind of i'm kind of yeah these this list will be in the code yeah so okay i'm just curious i could send you an email saying please add my domain and then we're done right that's kind of i'm happy to have it beat on me but i think that's the point here yeah yeah maybe i my initial instinct was that we would use basically the same metric for what we point to now is sort of what we use for um what we'll make references to inside rfcs so we'd be pointing to stable places and sdos and things where we have you know admin that we trust and individuals places like your domain we can talk about you know adding those but there's you know rot that that can come in and bite us later so i think yeah you're right we we should continue to have a conversation about this and the tools discuss list is probably the right place to do that yeah and my only comment was that github we should not trust it right because anybody can put any content there well the nice thing about github is is that you can't while you might be able to put content there you can't really control how that content gets served and one of the one of the attacks that i that would be easy to mount right now would be a uh you provide a url that has a slow loris on the other end so the um okay anything else a machine that basically returns one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "byte per hour but doesn't close the connection yep just one bite often enough and we've got timeouts in place but you can find them so anything else on that topic before we move along and we'll take mail archive the registration system as read you will note some notes in the data tracker section on interaction with the registration system eric would you like to talk about yang catalog yeah and i mean we work with what i call the proponents or the the founder of the young catalogue the bernout clay is the joe clark and and a few others to make a list of about 10 that's the list which is there and basically i am feeding from the top priority uh to pante on the contractor by opening issues and checking what is done so it's slowly working to the list one big chunk is about the system the schema id that's how we can compress long schema id from yang into something much smaller by an integer basically and this is kind of interesting because this document has been approved by the isg if not mistaken but now we discover oh we can do it and we discover problems we are killing two birds in one stone let's say on this so fixing the draft itself and trying to get the right technical analysis and logic analysis on this and how we can proceed so cast on a thing you you are in the course so you may want to say a few words because you are involved in this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:04",
    "text": "oh i read cabo i was assuming it was cast and as usual but maybe not anyway i think it is but i don't know that his audio is working all right any questions about yang catalog you know please follow the pointers there um there's a project in the yang the the yang catalog um organization itself that's useful to follow for seeing what's happening or where the focus is on day to day getting catalog development michael you started to ask something is the issue of uh said numbers with this in uh clearly in your scope there were some questions that did come from i think you eric and benoit last week so i just want to make sure that everyone everyone's uh clued into the the challenge or the whatever yeah and sorry michael i should have thought about you as well uh not only cast and there you are part in the discussion i think we need to get um aid in the coming days a discussion with all the components and for the specific for the seed you castle and everyone that wants it and the people from the young caterer can try to get thing because working on the google doc um i mean it's not efficient right basically so we need to get a talk on this okay never try to find it okay actually nighttime for me thanks thank you all right unless somebody has something else um we can move on to the data track security view which i realized i hadn't typed in things um i started to i'll finish it later the dev"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "team is completing the last actions we needed to work on to remediate the issues that um the security report pointed out we got all of the major ones um before the last call um there are some minor ones that we'll be working with um fixing over the next couple of weeks we'll then prepare a document that um goes along with their final report the report as presented from them still has a lot of sections that say that the issues are unaddressed rather than have them go back and change the report to say the issues are addressed and planning on just putting a companion document along with it um when we publish it that notes how we addressed the the ones that the reports say weren't addressed yet so we do plan to go to publish the the final report um with all of the um dark secrets that it had down inside of it they um are no longer relevant but it was entertaining what um what they were able to extract robert can i just i mean just want to double check nobody has any objection to us doing this i mean i i think it's entirely along aligned with the principle of transparency that we have um and i think this is the normal way that a good you know company would do this or a good organization would do this but i want to you know make sure that we're all along with that plus one from rich i can see in the chat great okay thank you yeah it's a little hard to answer that without having seen the report so i saw a little bit of hesitancy on some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "people's eyes um we can certainly circulate the the report um among the team before publishing it on the website so yeah would anybody like us to do that before we publish or do you think we should just move straight to publish yeah any reactions at all i'm hearing that we just moved straight to publishing that people here are not uncomfortable all right um we're working on the segment work for the next security review which would be an ietf a wide review um i'm going to be in touch with jay um over the next day or so to hopefully finalize that and start getting onto zx's schedule for for that review and everything else i think we can take as read does anybody have something else they would like to bring up for this call so there was a lot go ahead jay no i was gonna say if nobody does i'd like to just finish off by going back to the workshops briefly sure so um the the the lrc public um budget has been um published again and again we're making a significant investment in tools you know there's a strong feeling on the llc board that there is a certain amount of technical debt that needs to be um uh repaid we have um nick and cassaro on board now so we have um significant amount of development capabilities and things and so these"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "workshops i think going to be very important for us um to plan the work ahead and we have clearly two sides to that one is to tidy up and clean up stuff that exists but i don't think that's going to be the majority of the work i think we're going to be able to relatively soon switch to a more forward-looking approach where we're able to do some really interesting new things and so i think it's going to be important for us to um talk about the right sorts of things and have that kind of engagement around that so i just wanted to highlight that that these workshops i think will be important for shaking the future of stuff so i mean just to give you an example the type of things that some people have spoken about in the past are um us uh having say something like um a plug into vs code that um brings you know pulls in all of the um uh the stuff you need to to create an id with those type of things are now possible for us to do um i'm not saying that's the right one but we need to start having those conversations about those things so um if you could look at the workshops a bit add in any sort of um thoughts ideas of the directions that you think you we would we should be discussing please do that um robert and i have done what we can but i think at times you know we're quite operational and um if you know if others have got the border ideas that would be useful i have a question about the call this was quite long they did the take as red approach work um do you want do we want to start having this call more frequently or do you think that calls at the current cadence with this level of content in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "them is um the right level it works for me i mean the one minor change i might make is you might try you've got a little of a consent agenda mark stuff as i'm not going to talk about this unless unless somebody flags it so you can just skip over that you can completely skip the stuff you want to skip good suggestion indeed is as long as the notes go out ahead of time like they did this time it's fine all right we'll stick with the monthly cadence unless somebody has something else i think we're done i thank everybody for their time and you know thank you for being so patient and supportive as we're doing these big technology disruptions um the move the data tracker align cloudflare and the move of the source into github is definitely um big big big things for us so um so far it's going smoothly so yeah it's a big change in operation in design and in future so congratulations thanks for all you do robert and we'll see you all online have one quick question is there a coach print plan for vienna yep saturday before hybrid okay excellent thank you thank you you"
  }
]
