[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "can you hear me yes I do so yeah I think Jody will take take a minute this time okay probably it's uh okay thank you uh let's move on okay let's uh start actually so welcome to uh this Auto intermediate this uh I believe this is the force intermedium focus on OK Google follow-up of om transport and my name is Ching Wu and my coaches and so not aware apply and probably you know you already get a recorded and for code conduct please be applied professional to your uh fellows and also rpr was applying this is the note aware and please follow this if you're not already please release this is agenda for today's discussion and we'll you know focus on two uh working good job and for each job we'll spend 25 minutes and to discuss what is the open issue we we already have and what is the issue we already closed there and at the end we will leave five minutes to discuss the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "uh whether any you know idea about the security privacy we can prepare for the next interim and for since the focus is you know om and transport and for the Next Step actually we uh post that we need to make sure we resolve all the open issue probably uh we encourage the author to prepare the new version other end of this week and we can launch the second working last call for both chapter at the beginning of next next week but we need a additional reviewer for each chapter or and transport and if you are volunteer please let us know and the goal is to finalize this draft negative ready for publication at the first week of the June so any agenda batch if no actually has a move on let's uh have a first topic discussion or the OM Json the floor is yours do you want to share by yourself share a slide hello cheers we can hear you oh okay so maybe I can just start to share the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "slides I'd also replied on the yeah so should I just share my screen oh yeah you can share your screen or you share a slide [Music] okay okay sure yeah we can see now okay so yeah just uh to make some uh update about other progress on the yeah uh how the particles document and we had out of the new version to address the working Black Card reviews and some other comments issues so here's the thing about the extra versions and the copy on the GitHub and also the Yamato is defined by this document so it's a great summary about the current progress is to so we we already received three different laptop reviews from The psvr Young doctor reviews and the of course directed reviews and was a tsvr so this is so this is already"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "so that's not talking is used made by the center so each other already so we have to get a combination to get the response to him to after some clarifications about the text and for the Ops directory reviews so all the comments are having very progressed to have been the response to them and to get the conversation for the young data reviews they almost surprised the comments the questions we start to Andy and get them for the best feedback and put in the snow object that on the GitHub issues tickets we we trust some further discussion so they have to have fun planting issues so we will discuss it later ask for some additional reviews made by working with shares so without detract the progress down so you can have the issue ticket and just perhaps there are two open issues to address but but yeah I think it's not blocking issues but it's also how these three pending interest is just some it helps enhancement about the this document also they have to ban individual reviews by Lewis and if you address the comments so there's a link about the how the GitHub issues so we use databases to check out the common sense of the discussions so we have three perhaps 31 issues in total and because I'm most awesome but there's still three open issues so we try to discuss it today so you in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "this video so for the first one it's about to list open issues about the characters about the New Testament to the introduced in the new version so the comments are actually made by Andy uh reviews so I think we need to clarify some uh the the semantics and the the imported formats are about some typical so uh we introduced two new type device which is a the society and the Roman so they have the pattern continues but we don't have any text to clarify why by the address pattern content so because from some discussions uh uh you don't think we don't find any special reason in the static implementation that uh to uh so so it doesn't they are specific reasons that uh to uh but we also want to put it into the discussing so how to say if any working members have some specific reasons so just think we need the pattern something if not we just simply remove it okay for the first issue and any comments"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:06",
    "text": "actually my suggesting you know I I'm why we need to this uh concentrator for for the pattern design yeah maybe yeah simple solution is just remove this pattern I they elderly systems we have comments from men clearly oh yeah I also come out here mattress matter can you uh other comments in the in in the chat room yeah yeah I think yeah the basic comment here is that we um we don't need to over specify that means that if there is no I would say link with what we have in the base specs there is no need to to the constraints as much as what we have here so my recommendation is that to go remove the group and remove the the current pattern correct Richard do you have additional comments a very quick question is the following uh even if you remove the pattern I presume you still have a type right so therefore Source ID sub type string and you specify lens which is from one to Max and then you're gonna have the only same thing my question is typically when you define these have things and is for example here let's really look at it and here for the source ID is a string from from uh whistling from one to Max and therefore your own name would also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "be from 1 to Max typically as me as a typical programmer and I will look at okay does really mean that the source ID and your name should be somehow at least related at least they should be the same lens right otherwise one is Max second one also Max should sure the first one be Max one second one will be Max two and if they are the same Max that's really mean eventually maybe your name can become Source ID so typically you define uh the philosophy I follow all the time I think that's a that's one thing I learned by by early days in my career when drawing a working people like pohudak and so on they always argue essentially is a major part program language or formal system is you use the syntax to come with semantics right you define the syntax and the syntax trying to convey the semantic here do I really get the the reading that the source ID and your name somehow are related so that's why they have the same moments and if they have the same lens then can you define a single one so therefore that's a single Max less otherwise why do they have the same less let me understand so because the society and donate they had the same so I I also getting better to use it a single common tab design ER test amateur uh it depends on how much semantics you want to do right and uh if you think Source ID and your name are just typical identifier you use just Define identify and then they all have same lens and then eventually you all do that and I think that's the way it works well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "here at Radio type Define you want to come with a semantics and that's a different one right so I'm just only here I'm just trying to really get today why are you in single Source ID and your name you're gonna have a bunch of other essential types of variables right you introduce a new type why this type what's relationship between different types that so this comments made by the younger reviews in every type you use the module you need to despise it by this semantic on the description yeah so I'm gonna start adding a girl name yeah even they have the same encoding format but the the usage of them in the different context so we have a different Technologies you need to use a description statement to inside sure even I'm fine for example then I probably I would Define for example Source ID rhodium clearly as some kind of what they called L value right and left hand side value they Define some kind of identifier so therefore problem maximum lens would be you know identify a name Max identifier less and then your name also similar because you can also have maximum lens from the buffer side right and you can have a variable name you can have the value which can be longer you know typical names you know 32 64 128 and values and you know 4K or whatever I'm just trying to really convey as much as many as possible yeah yeah Richard I think the problem we have here is that we don't have any alternative text to put there to constraint I would say the the semantic not the format of this is to type so we have two options where we go back to what we have in the formal design that's simply said that the source ID and the rule name are just strings but the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "problem is that the young doctors and with the um best practices for iOS certified engineering models they don't like if you just give the I would say just the string and then play with that so that you want to have some constraints and the only constraint for for for these two given the the I would say the automotive specification document we have in the alto is that it must not be a null strain that means that we are it's not as minimum we should you should have one a length of one the max here doesn't mean that you will have the same max value between here the source ID and the role name all what it says is that it's can be a language start from one to the maximum of the allowed type and the type is the string so the question for us here in the um for the working group whether we should we add something more which is not today in the in the specifications or can we just simply see that yeah this is the minimum we can do we don't know if there are other constraints and then we can leave it for for the future and that's the um the the question we need to answer today sure I remember that we had this discussion last time in the last interview and the uh we had a homework from from Jensen to uh to justify the rational why we have the ad pattern and they don't know that we came up with a justification for it so I think that's we just need to be a pragmatic here and move forward and just remove the the pattern uh maintain the temp that's that's always better than the the string for the implementation you can always do a deviation or refinement and so on and that's that's fine I don't think I think this deserves to be I would say more discussion that that we have so far for it sure sure my only small suggestion of course that's totally uh uh according the authors can do is maybe don't by the way what's the value of the max really is really the maximum of total string type by itself or Max is really yeah yeah no this is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "right but a string can be like a 4K right do we want a lot of sources and we are going back to the uh to the question do we have any limitation in the current in the current specification of the lines yes we know that we have some I would say that the string should not be that long because otherwise we'll be consuming a lot of resources um if we have any recommended value we can we can we can dig it but I don't think that we have any random one unless we decide to see this yeah with the um if we do a makeup parallel with the other attributes we have in the current specification and we have a maximum for those let's use the same Max and then we will have a bounded string value there right but did we did we did we have this bounded for the others I don't think so I think that the length one to Max is also used for the other ones if I'm not mistaken Jensen yeah yeah obviously I think it's it's the same language we have for the other ones okay it sounds like if I were Implement her all I want to do for example uh of course and that might be go to the details and sometimes for example if it is I'm doing like a very simple password a young model I probably need to allocated this like a source ID like giant vagina array right that's kind of like a weird yeah yeah okay so Richard [Music] yeah yeah just we get this one before we uh we decided to to move on it so we're in charge what what what would be I would say your uh because whatever recommendation we will do for these two lifts we should be consistent with the other ones what we have there so please if you can go to the I would say to the um to the document um and review it part of the second"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "second working classical that will be a really good to to have more eyes on it um so just as a reminder as she mentioned in the introduction slides we need at least three reviewers for his documents um so far and the director and also the chairs so it will be good to have other ones so if you can commit pleased to to be one of these three reviewers for the UN this will be really great okay great great good idea I'll do that okay so um for the uh for the minutes please if you can just record that we have Richard to be um coming to review the duo in draft during the um the second working platform that will be uh this will be good thank you and thank you Johnny for losing as we are on it can we please have two additional reviewer volunteers for the DUI document yes I think so thanks Richard so I think Matt are you asking for two more volunteers yes yes we need at least two names so that we can we are really I would say good or having three three names and three reviews from fresh eyes and we are sure confident that the um the second book of last call is really a repeating what what the European roles so please if we can have two additional volunteers that will help us move forward yeah so could you could you repeat what's the deadline for this is I think we mentioned at the beginning um yeah the is that this is that for the second working group last call yes yes within a week okay yeah so um so we have on one volunteer which is Richard we need two more volunteers I can try my best to to be one of those and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "any other volunteers yeah I also volunteer to review these I always preferably having one more which is not working with as a chain piece okay thank you thank you but you can always review so that's maybe a lawyer or Sabine can volunteer Sabin how is that for you where is that's something is a good choice because she knows all these like uh variables and yeah I already reviewed the documents so I think I'm not a legend yeah the same thing actually so um yeah so um so Sabine how is your are you available to do this review okay I can take this offline um and come up with uh with two more of yours um for this let me take this as an action item yeah I'll follow up with a group okay thank you thank you Jody thank you let's proceed yeah Jason please continue yeah uh for the second opening Tuesday about the security consideration so uh this comments also made by uh Mis so it's actually discussing down the GitHub feature tickets and uh right now we have the early proposal uh about how to revise it uh about two parts like that uh they need to start a proper uh yeah some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:04",
    "text": "type of so we need to uh set and exam this tension for the authentication related data node and Rhino I think all the uh I think is really generally protected by the reusable groupings it is depart in some other graphs that for some choices defined in this document so it may be argumented by some other extension modules so this will introduce some other authentication related data nodes so we need to be carefully so when they function modules Define this kind of objective nodes so they need to set the number right as time expression so imagine this consideration some days uh new revision and another write about for some writable data notes so we may have some negative tactics is not that properly at least two examples like the fade interval and pull interval uh depending the data cells that there's a listener its operator so you've made some uh may lead to some issues of the system performance and the some other text solution so they definitely some security confusing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "now they other characters documents that's a Japanese universities so maybe if they want to play expresses we can depending configurable threat tools for this conducted notes but I'm not ready to uh so I think this slide also can be uh related to the the sort of an issues about the notifications that for uh for the Concrete Solutions to yeah I don't know if the construction is already enough so because the mathematic discussions answers and other uh actual reviews from the creative I think Jessica here you're really talking about two different issues uh security authentication authorization Are One issues and uh they Integrity or or safety of system is second issue so they are really two very two different issues and you might want to separate into I don't think they are security considerations the first one looks likely to be security uh consideration the second one is more like operational issues right and because second one really is operational uh I do have some uh more comments and about the operation our personal issues for example the feed interval and put into what I can understand right for example whenever you have data type of course it's a young model essentially is only defined uh the uses standard syntax and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "Define something for example feeding table cannot be negative one and that doesn't make sense right so therefore all the value must be valid and it cannot should not be zero what's the meaning of zero or what's the meaning of minus one and so on so I think that's issue number one basically is integrity over value I know sometimes in real systems what you do is uh there are two ways for example because the feeding table oftentimes you want this OEM so therefore you want some kind of unless you when you discuss about operation issues is you might have a for example multiple uh system multiple or uh entities getting involved for example uh one part of management comes from the operator for example the you know the the ISP who really controls feed intervals so therefore they can say that they can set some kind of upper bound and lower bound you cannot be faster than one millisecond or 100 milliseconds per uh poly interval or cannot be lower and so on and so therefore you can put some upper back and then you might have second entity which might really go in and modified variables so therefore essentially it is hierarchical policy but essentially you Define operational or defined in policy so therefore the policy will have some kind of hierarchy and higher level policies who might Define for example some ring and which constrain the second level of policy the second level policy can be no set by a separate operator or separate entity or can be really controlled for example by some kind of dynamic algorithm right for example poor interval will be adjusted According to some kind of learning algorithm so therefore I think those are the issues I don't know if you want to go into the discussion and uh you probably if you really want to do and you really give up about lower bound or whatever Bond essentially is higher level policy and lower level policy so this probably makes more sense but you probably want to clarify what was intended just only gave a upper by lower ball probably not a good right and what exactly is the correct value of upper lower bound okay so so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "yeah you also getting that uh so it's the first flight they start should not be in this security consideration but we had um some discussion on the operations right and then we can pick up some further we can have some further discussions on this one right because basically interval Point table essential sometimes they might be different variables and basically higher level policy is constraint to the scope of second level so therefore you might have separate different variables and control it so at least that's the way it works so operational I I just I would I would suggest right and uh operational and then allow safety so put intervals uh bound you probably make like for example uh controlled by one entity and then but this one actually should be also tied up with your security policy right it's an authentication and authorization who can write which part and upper level can control the lower bound just for the context so what this section is is trying to do is to to identify the um I would say in the um in the young data model the data nodes that are sensitive that means that assuming that you without making an assumption how the authorization is done how the um all the I would say um your system is set up there may be some meditation some vulnerabilities are related to some of the the nodes and just giving you I would say in the chat the um the uh the overall I would say Tom plate which is should be followed by the all the young out designers to call out the um the sensitive data nodes um so it's it's not I would say it's not practical just to go and say yes we don't have any any issue with the with the model because this is not true and we cannot just say that yeah we have the um the appropriate I would say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "management system to to manage the authorization and the um um I would say correct access and utilization of the nodes right so the we don't need to be a comprehensive or exhaustive but only to identified what are critical and the one which is for example displayed by um Jensen here is about the the pointer event it's even if you allow for example a range of values there are still some wind liabilities related to it because it depends there is no recommended value that you can set to be safe right if you set it lower then you can have more frequency in in pulling your reducers if you see it high then you will you will end up having still data in your in your system and then your all the auto Machinery will be based so even with a branch we still have a problem if there is I would say a malicious user who who is accessing to that to that to that data so in place we have the recommendation to use secure means to access to that but in the same time we need to pull out the sensitive I would say information that that should be protected even or without the use of the um the the I would say the access control which is also displayed here by emergency in this slide so I I don't know which is currently your proposal for for the section by introducing the the operational I would say parameters and so on sure uh uh the research additional collaborate actually for this security section we do have you know templates that we can follow young data model security template and as a medical Library we just need to you know focus on young data models that are sensitive we identified insensitive and provide a you know additional description"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "right yeah let me take a look at the uh and the the template and then I can give my share my comment in my review how about that we don't have to okay thank you thank you Richard thank you I think that's good yeah so Jason you can maybe you can yeah become of course so they uh the laptop issues about the notification so there's also didn't come out so consider to add some notifications that can be tracked with some threshold of the original animation up there so right now we foreign by the some other modules for example say alert modules so maybe we can just reuse them but uh so we're still checking this data modules to see how to how to really use them so I also want to uh say some data from the button so if you had some other suggestion about this so Richard you have a comments create a common question and I'm like I said actually review a document but I haven't uh fully would I would talk about notification to add for resource"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "limits uh only or you already have notifications for other things as well for example you know it doesn't have to be to be a resource limit exceeding it can be for example people set a notification value of less than 10 milliseconds and therefore you should be notified someone might be doing something then potentially dangerous so I I will talk about generic notification mechanism essentially anything somehow there's some things yeah so so because we see some other notice for example the other modules maybe they already defined a more concrete more General Solutions about the notifications so we can use them for example that that we'd like to mentioned about the not just the resource limiting also some others yeah for example if if the auto server crashed or some branches of Auto server whatever disappeared or a customer no longer updated or whatever would you also send a notification in your system uh yeah that's a good question right now uh I've done this I also server pressure I'm not sure if the Yamato can handle this uh right now we only can handle some open some information resource Christ but if the the whole server requests um I think we're very interested if they also still request the uh whether they"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "so Jason I guess right so typical for example if I were going to use the Zookeeper or whatever others Google stuff so oftentimes the way it works is and I would basically use your model as a way of you know like zookeeper and essentially is I have a overall structure and I will link the data uh to to uh to the management om system of individual for example I I'm Network one and I have five for example Auto servers and I have one branch or one Whatever brand for every single server whenever that server it is connected that Branch will be disappeared and then I said okay there's a alarm so therefore I will send notification right so that's a that's a standard uh connection oriented design model of Zookeeper that's exactly whenever this information on refresh and then will the trigger alarm right trigger essential State and so therefore you know what happened notification mechanism maybe probably we should take it through the list I think we already run on time for this topic okay okay my understanding is for for the parameter you propose is not a generic is a specific to to some memory resource usage you put the limit so let's take it to the list and move to the next topic okay could you put this question in the mailing list and then Jensen and others can follow up yeah okay yeah uh we already have to discuss our issues with example forward instance we can yeah actually yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "connect that with the GitHub ticket yeah make sure it's linked yeah thank you great great appreciate that okay bye yep uh let me see uh yeah I think this is one wait do you see the screen yes go ahead uh yeah okay okay so uh basically uh today I'm going to go over the updates uh for the new transport documents since the last uh internal meeting for the working group documents and uh this is the state uh of the document in before the last interim meeting and uh uh this is basically the state of the document uh before this intermediate and uh except for the HP Dr review that we haven't uh really uh going down the detail with Martin for the other documents uh for the other reviews we have at least pinned the reviewers and for the Ops uh Dr review and for the TSB art review We have got confirmation from the authors that they considered uh the updates has addressed their comments and for the office they are review I think uh sun has replied uh publicly and but for the tsvr Arts uh I basically is in the personal email to Bernard and he replied also uh in personal email so probably we need to ask him to basically respond uh publicly I think that's the state for the uh document and uh as a major road blockers here I think it's still the HP jar review and uh super so let's intermediate what has mentioned that there are some basically issues pointed out in the hpdr review"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "and uh so after the next after the last intermediate we have made some updates I think for some of the comments uh they can be addressed like uh by some editorial changes for example we have proposed a list of terms to define the uh uh determines that so we don't uh basically when we do the specification we we refine the tones that we for example don't use terms such as should be like and we are using terms for example must have the format of uh I think that probably would solve the problem or like specification by example uh issue and also we have a list of terms uh terminal uh defined in a section 2.2 and that's basically uh we'll solve the inconsistency of terms issue and I think knock learning has replied with Martin about the new design uh that we do not need to actually uh Curry one do not need to involve one round of Curry to actually fetch your data so I think the only remaining issue is uh how to basically we need to confirm with money whether the proposed solution to use hdv2 answer your server push and also uh whether uh and also to justify uh why we want to bond the session to a single processing connection I think that's the only remaining problems until we can make another revision yep uh yeah I think that's basically the current state motivation text to explain rational why we wanted to have a single one do you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "confirm that you have this text in the new version or not yet uh uh I am I don't think so uh I probably need to check the document uh I'm not sure whether for example lakshman or Richard has uh made some updates no we don't have this uh yet so we should really uh add this apart starting exactly yeah yeah we really should add it about uh Matt we send an email to uh Martin Thompson uh times we want to have a very quick chat with some like uh within the next one today which is an email maybe like around half an hour ago a hour ago and uh after he's also okay and then we can add a paragraph of course it will be more having discuss about why session based it makes sense it adds complexity but it is actually awesome time can be very good very good too but it basically means the connectivity is also associated with essentially semantics okay thank you for this update recharge but anyway so if you suggestion to be made please make sure to um yeah to um to ship this by the end of the um of the week so that we can we can follow the the plan we had for the second book last call and by the way um we also need you the three volunteers for the this draft as well uh so people who are who who are on the I would say on the bridge please if you can commit to uh to review this document that should be a really good to uh to have more eyes on on it because I we don't have much reviews from the working of yourself rather than the the chairs and the directory viewers uh so we would appreciate if you can volunteer to uh to uh to review right would be great yeah sure so we use um we do have time to review this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:16",
    "text": "so any volunteer yeah I I can also come here the um some of you guys already did the review like uh let's mentioned I I leave these two documents uh prior to the first working Google let's call I'm happy to do another well uh it's challenging because it's only a few days I guess uh margin here and uh but I'll do my best to do a review um yeah the challenge is the timing I think it's a little bit tight especially because there are many things going on uh so um I'm sure the same situation for others um is the timeline strict or can we buy us a little bit more time yeah if it's okay with you and can we I do know a couple of people who are very good in HTTP they are not a working group but can we also coach those other people to review our documents because they're very good and uh yes yes yeah the the more eyes we have this is really good for for us to be sure and to back up that you're on the the ATF last hole that we have more isolates so that would be great if you can chase them yeah okay okay I'll ping I'll find one around two people because they are very good in xcp they may not be total expert on auto but they're very good experts in terms of HTTP which is what we need as well yeah exactly yeah thank you Richard uh let's coordinate that offline uh and make sure that we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "have a good good number of reviewers um so thank you uh if you want to see me on that Richard and now yeah it's making sure that we have enough enough people yeah and also for the OEM um we'll do the same yeah okay cool okay thanks Richard thanks uh Judy to have to find out in here Okay so the the teams for the um I would say the authors of both drought so the next step would be um to wait for the um revised versions and then we will kick off the um the working class comment next week okay so unless there is in the other ports we can move to the next Point machine yeah uh maybe let me share the chair slides okay we still have some time and I think for for the next step we'll prepare you know another you know intermediate focus on security and privacy and uh I want to know um anyone have a plan working plan to work on this and any proposal you want to share I think IU has uh think about it oh Louise go ahead I say Luis are you Louis your first yes yes may there will be to report some security concerns that we have from the integration of Alto for the telephonica CDN so some ideas that have come to our minds after this integration so maybe I can report on that okay great thanks Luis are you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:04",
    "text": "so thank you as I sent in the email so basically we are now three tentative ideas that we are trying to explore further and we're hoping to receive some feedback and support from the auto members in order to prioritize which are your idea is more relevant and how to proceed the next maybe you you can share some of your ideas further idea on the list to say how this can fit into the auto so richer yeah I just want to give a very quick update uh I would like to write of course working with ayob and Luis I want to write up a little bit security and privacy analysis and a little bit design as well in particular in the context of multi-domain domain and there are different secured privacy for some networks they are most uh important for some other ones for example the CERN and LGC one they're less they're less uh you know strict because they're relatively open openly open public network so therefore I think I would like to add a little bit that particular multi-doming perspective I'll red hap and I'll share with the group okay thank you okay okay we can all hear you foreign is working on some uh basically some an algorithm called"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "gradient boosting which can uh basically generate multiple Maps you based on a single Auto map and then they will still be able to keep some uh statistical uh features of the original map but then it can basically uh generate some other values than the true value of the map and I I'm wondering whether this could be a useful case for uh for example when the clients may have some privacy issues with the network yeah maybe you can share your use case on the list we can discuss okay okay I I think that's all for today's discussion and so Matt do you have any last word no I don't know comments on it so I'm looking forward to CD I would say yeah visited version of the documents and also the structuring of the next entry meeting because this will fit the discussion will have only your future of the working group so please get engaging it if we want to CDM I would say um more activities in the in the future yeah so thanks to everyone I think we can conclude this intermitting thank you thank you everyone thank you everyone bye thank you"
  }
]
