[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "now we'll give another minute or two to see if more people wonder in to allow for accurate interpretation all right at all um I think we can probably go ahead and get started I don't know where Claire is uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:06",
    "text": "so I think our agenda is generally fairly open for discussion for the from the authors was like number one right yeah so the agenda typically follows the um flow of um bear with me I have it on one of my screens uh so I'm signing a note taker um any kind of discussions and updates from the authors who have been doing anything in the um focus times um or in individual conversations and then any kind of discussions of items or issues so um I know there's been quite a bit of conversation in the participant in the mailing list about the um ISO standards and how they may or may not impact our work and then sort of any other items that people want to raise foreign has anyone got any objections to that order or do they've got anything that they'd like to um add to the agenda okay we seem to have four participants at the moment um oh there's a chat sorry I didn't see that Oh Thomas isn't hearing any audio and we'll just give Thomas a chance to rejoin um Alex David John any objections to the agenda or anything they wanted to mention the objections from me this might be fairly short and sweet then which way for Thomas to rejoin and Martin's offline"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "thank you foreign people by the minute um I'll give Thomas another couple of minutes to come back and we might have to call it then thank you okay we're getting more people trickle through just waiting for Thomas to come back and we'll carry on foreign that's good yeah I was trying to figure out how to make it work yep yeah the tool is not exactly uh intuitive although it's not awful either"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "but the microphone and the camera button on the upper left or everything views as well if we raise hand tool if we actually get into a cube if we want to still no Thomas [Music] well in absence of Thomas does anybody else have material that you want to talk about today um that we could start with Thomas is probably the main the main actor for the day but um nothing for me um is there an update on the vocabulary slash um glossary that we were putting together um so last I checked the GitHub repository was submitted as part of the material risks and and the vocabulary is just part of that it's in it's in the GitHub are we confident that we've got a fairly comprehensive collection of terms in there or is that something that we need to review um I think we're fine I mean Thomas and Dennis both contributed to it uh so I think I think we're good but yeah if you want Clary you can have a look as well I think one of the key things that we should decide or where how are we going to publish it in the long term so I think the two options three options that we have are one just leave it the GitHub repository and will be consistent about using it uh that's probably not my most preferred um two we could actually make it a standing internet draft on its own and uh you know as as part of the set P output we might need to get permission from the area director to do that and change the charter a little bit because he noted that it's not in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "charter at the moment that's really not a big ask nobody's going to object putting on a vocabulary document to to get that done and the third thing we could do is include it in the architecture document as a section of the architecture document but you know my personal preference without my chair head on my technical chat on is you know we should publish it somewhere right it should go into a document that everybody can refer to so we use it consistently within all of the documents yeah I I prefer having it either as a separate document or part of the architecture one um so maybe I can catch up on the mailing list with Thomas and to see if we can coordinate that lovely um can we assign a a note further I can take notes clear okay thank you you just have to do all the Talking cheers Fab um so that's a quick update then on the vocab glossary um Thomas are you in and can you hear us well now thank you that's not a good sign Thomas can you hear us at all nope okay um last call for any agenda items and then um open the floor I think for the um any kind of conversations from the authors of which I think Thomas is the only one that's with us today let's hear me yes we can hear you sorry uh sorry having is having some serious browser issues so was that a question for me uh yeah can you hear us and sort of uh just in terms of our general agenda flow an update from the authors so yeah all"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "of our documents have been adopted now so if there've been any changes any Communications um and where are we with them um sure sure yeah yeah I can talk about the um sappy core you know the error messages that we're doing and also with the Gateway identity identification work with uh shipping and with Dennis so that's that's even better should I should I should I speak now yeah if you're happy to sure yeah sure uh yeah so uh error messages uh so you've seen the set of uh you know small number of emails back and forth but uh I'm working with Raphael and also having some calls with Martin to just go through uh some error messages and uh basically right now just just collect them and then we can bucketize them you know later on but uh we looked at um you know using the model that the TLs has for how it describes uh error messages and we thought that would be a good um a good model to follow and so so that's that's not a work in progress perfect okay and and Gateway identity shall I say a few words on that yes please yes have to add before we move on nope yeah please do uh yeah so so uh uh shipping is online but shipping Denison myself are on bi-weekly like our own little subgroup call if anyone wants to join us most most welcome to do that uh but uh we're discussing a couple of things uh first is how to uh you know address this this problem of uh get to identification and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "Discovery uh and what's the model is it is it hierarchical like DNS is it you know a large database like the Trisa you know architecture is using for the uh you know virtual asset service providers uh and secondly sub question is uh are the structures that are available today such as the verifiable claims and also the did is that is that the suitable sort of uh vehicle to uh capture and and put put is that that is that the right data structure to put together for you know the identity of the Gateway at the device level and also the uh ID of the owner and so this is by the way if you're wondering why there's this discussion on the mailing list about um you know application to application context and so on you know it came from this sort of discussion that uh you know when you talk about Gateway identification uh you know do we need to also identify a know or convey what types of assets are supported by a Gateway in which case you know we need this that um definition and remember we talked about asset profiles so so I believe Dennis uh uh who's not in the call he wants to continue to work on asset profiles as well because it's it is going to be needed uh you know going forward but that that's that's where it is and um and you know shipping if you want to jump in uh please feel free kill homie yep we can hear you yeah I think uh uh all the stuff and we make we captured we try to reversing the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "current version already expired we try to new updated in the future soon okay so so that's that's on our to-do list right um shipping is is provided next uh update we we know it's not you know it's not part of the work item list but it's it's something that I think the group will need down the road so in a sense it's a we can see it as a side project but you know a relevant one and um wherever I go so so there's been separate discussions you know with a number of you know what what's called layer one blockchain you know systems out there you know polka dots and Avalanche and so on and uh you know the ability to number identify networks is is it's not just our problem everybody's got that same problem and this idea of gateways are slowly you know you know catching on so so for folks who have not heard of the monetary authorities of Singapore uh they had a five-year project called Ubi and ubin and I think last year or early last year they produced the the final stage report and you know they they there's this massive diagram but at the edge of it there's this block is this Gateway right and so what they're trying to do there is to provide support for multi Network multi-blockchain multi-currencies you know this is the the ambition of Singapore is to be you know kind of the next Switzerland but it's interesting that that they understand that there needs to be gateways to you know be the point where they enforce policies whether it's uh asset transfer policies you know currency International payments"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "policies and so on and so on there needs to be this this this box and they call it a Gateway without it I thought was revealing and kind of confirmed at least to me that that we're on the right track okay okay that's that's all I have uh was and clear okay thank you um was there anything more on error messages or or Gateway Discovery um which I know is is a slightly out of scope of the documents but useful kind of uh context before we move on uh sure so sorry to look at the just the the stages so the easiest way I I've discovered maybe you know more simpler than what Raphael was suggest you on email is just to go through every you know stage used to be called phases but every stage States particularly one two three and see what things could go wrong and and if you if you were the I.T guy if you're the engineer that was running a Gateway a set of gateways for your organization and and one or more of them started misbehaving or the the failure rate of you know uh you know interactions increases you know what would you do what kind of information would you need is as an I.T engineer to figure out what's what's going wrong right and so I invite people to to to look at you know that problem from a perspective of stage one two and three is that something you'd like to have a bit of a workshop around or is that something you think people can do in their own time it no it would it would be good actually if we could have like you you know even like a little Zoom Workshop you know discussion um you know and so on and so on I think it would be useful okay we can certainly look into setting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "something up in terms of a a workshop to to get that progress ready for review at the the more formal informal entry meetings um is that something you'd like us to to look at Thomas or are you happy to set that up uh well happy happy either way uh yeah we could maybe Claire and West we could take this like offline or email and just figure out you know Logistics so the the simple Logistics having just got it in in back from a heated discussion with the IAB and the iesg about this particular topic is that it should be an interim meeting um so it could be it could be a separate one or we could do it as part of the regular monthly meeting and have more of a more focused conversation where we actually have uh you know material to actually go over and review and and you know we have a full hour and we can spend an entire hour sometime on just the error handling you go through stage by stage that's probably the easiest thing to do but it doesn't have to so interim meetings do not have to be on meet Echo um you know they tend to to work well too we could do Zoom or something else but officially it has to be an interim meeting to to do that level of discussion with you know conclusions out of it okay no that's that's good so so so if that's the case well why don't we shoot uh for the next at the next interim meeting uh or or you know create one earlier before the next date just to have a full hour on the error messages and just have a just a discussion um and and I don't know how people feel about Zoom I can provide the zoo it's an easier interface to be honest with the meet Echo oh there's there's no obligation that we use meet Echo for in our meetings we have to you know publish it where it's going to be but we can put that in the minutes and put it in the announcement that's not really a problem so okay now is that is it too far off like the next interim meeting is what a month"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "right is it is it like should we try and have one in a couple of weeks in three weeks or is the next month okay with with you that's really up to the the people that need the conversation you know I would say it would be easiest to do next month but there's no problem creating another one in two weeks I think it's the minimum timeline sure okay I would say you know unless yeah I think we need to do it we wanted to do a call for interest in terms of people to be part of that conversation yeah yeah or the default is just happen in the interim next interim meeting and we use the whole hour or a large percentage of it to support error messages yeah and we can update the agenda well as soon as we weren't really to say that the agenda for that meeting will be a working group okay yeah why don't we do that yeah it gives the gives the pressure on the authors including myself to put the hours in you know and get coordinated good stuff lovely okay thank you okay I've had a message from Rama so for those who aren't aware of his most recent updates I'll skim through it's it's quite a lot of content so I'll share it with the mailing guest list but just so we've got the high level um the research on ISO 222 um in summary so I'm reading as I'm talking um is that it doesn't impact or doesn't necessarily change what we're trying to do um it's more to do with message formats rather than the assets themselves"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "um so John might have more he He suggests John might have more to say um but his understanding is that um we do need to compare and contrast a bit to make sure that we are clearing how our protocol is unique but the iso isn't we're not duplicating the iso standard um and that it probably best seats situated inside the architecture draft so an invite for comments on that and then also mentioned Thomas who by name um in terms of the multi cbdc scenario in the use cases um and that has sparked a conversation with Andre um and he will update the document in in near time with that was there anything you wanted to add to that in terms of the He suggests you might have an update to give in terms of the multi cbdc use case no updates for me but but yes that that we want that in the use case document perhaps it looks like the use cases we're Gathering new use cases so that's that's Grand and um some clarity there about the iso standard so I'll share like I said I'll share the message but just to kind of give the high level updates from um standard says more or less that you want to do something for example I want to send an asset to to Claire uh on your account given my account but it does not specify how this is done it doesn't it's not a protocol so uh uh but it has a wide wide range of assets and facilities for example you can have reconciliation of bank statement you can have a payment payment orders into bank payment orders customer payment orders and so on and so on it's sort of a channel mechanism how they translated the Swift messages which were in Arcane format to to XML"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:08",
    "text": "would it be possible to use that ISO messaging for um like phase zero or whatever phase minus one between the applications you would I think you would have to to find other messages within the or Define other messages within the iso 20022 so I don't think offhand it could do that it's worth exploring if we can use some of the iso messaging I mean why would we not want to use messaging that's already been agreed and as a standard that's adopted by a lot of the institutions that we're hoping will use our protocol but it's good to get the clarity that the I said in what you've said John very much mirrors what Rama seems to have said here in that it's not a protocol it is more of a messaging standard um with core messaging created rather than a protocol for transfer um so I think we're clear on that and that's really useful information and I thank you yeah I I think one of John Levine's comments was could that messaging structure be used even within this ATP protocol right could that be the messaging format so that we don't duplicate something else there are some tricky elements of how to refer to another document that is normative from these you know the ietf doesn't refer to external documents all the time for stuff that is not easily referenced within so if it's a if it's we need to figure out how to so let me try to enumerate the paths forward right one we do our own thing just totally ignore it and we come justification that you know really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "they're not because they don't have a protocol you know we're just going to do our own thing and use Json or whatever that we're going to do to do the transfers and whatever protocols we're going to use to do the transfers and leave them with ietf specific criticals the other option is we could do something that is at least collaborative so that they could interoperate and I think that that's always a good thing to do even if the messaging structure is different we can use the same sort of Concepts to make sure that they they can align align within an implementation and then the third option of course is to actually use their messaging structure and their messaging uh formats XML or whatever it is within the setpee protocol so in order to do the protocol of actually doing a transfer are there enough messaging components in in that existing you know ISO body that we could reuse as the messaging protocol within the satp result does that make sense yeah that's a good good idea yeah um okay no it makes sense I mean I I see it was at the very least the at the stage zero what what triggers the whole you know transfer unit direction from Gateway One Gateway two is this messaging thing has occurred at the application layer and now the gateways know exactly what to do and this is the carrying aside at the very minimum that's sort of one uh place where we can interface we could reuse what they have but but you're right I mean if they have a you know a message structure that allows us to carry like this what is it the the lock assertion and the receipt assertion coming back that yeah sure I mean so so okay so uh we'll have to look into that uh I don't know if anyone is is uh you know willing able to spend some Cycles looking at that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "really difficult because it's an arm an enormous standard it's it's really it's huge I know it's huge all kinds of messages there might be some Arcane messages similar to a local surgeon but who's going to find that you know Martin is anyone in swisscom you know that that does this you know for like no not really on uh I know a company which would do that it's uh bottom line it's an American College actually Boston or american-based company um who yeah you will find I I think I think the risk of these huge standards is that you will find somebody who who tweaked and twisted it to do something similar so but it's probably not their real and they have a a completely different sort of standardization cycle and approach which is probably multi-year and and whatever so yeah okay so so Martin maybe maybe you and I can go and uh search for somebody who knows who who knows that you can answer us in five minutes like you know which part of this gigantic standards uh documents should be you know look for this yeah yeah okay no thank you Martin let's do that sure a comment on this for a sec [Music] um two a couple things number one is is that it is vast"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "um and it's all about you know various messages between Banks and you know it's all based on currency not based on on digital assets uh second thing is is that they themselves are working on a Json version of it so it's a pretty you know it's XML generation so it's it's very verbose um and they're my understanding is the same committee is is looking at you know kind of a Json version so if if we were going to do anything that might make sense and my recommendation would be primarily just look at some of the data field descriptions that they have and you know may as well adopt some of them but not the message structure itself but you know they've got encodings for various kinds of data fields that they've standardized on you know whether it be country code or currency code or or whatever and they've got a you know they've done a whole bunch and that's kind of the approach that um that I've taken in a project that I've been working on is is you know if they've got you know everybody has to have coding for some of these fields and if they've already decided on it may as well just use the same um but I don't think you're going to find anything you know in ISO that you know that in that standards directly corresponds to what we're doing um and you know because it's it really is about moving around you know currency and and moving around stocks um but not digital assets"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "yeah no thanks John that was that was my understanding that you know this idea that if you have a tokenized asset and you do you know burning mint but but I like your idea but just reusing the the codes right because you know uh I I presume they have codes to identify not just the bank a bank but also what network and what uh device you know the Gateway is so if you could just reuse those codes that would help a lot I think but that's a great idea yeah I'm I'm not sure you know there is only one network and that's the Swift Network so I don't know whether there's really any internet working setting there but there's there's plenty of codes for all sorts of stuff there's codes for all sorts of stuff and they're also also networks so they are for example the the Swiss interbank clearing networks uses the XML standard the iso standard but has different codes for banks but there's the Swift Network which has a standard identifier for banks and I think they have some semi-standard identifier for companies and the way for example to structure addresses uh street addresses which is not in our domain at all but they have they have many sort of codes because they come from Swift which is full of Arcane code so I I just added the link to the chat about the message definition which gives sort of an overview what they do and they have what does it say seven 739 messages about all kind of data but yeah it's it's not really fitting yeah one would not call it a lightweight protocol no it's oh Hardware right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:05",
    "text": "so probably not right for us then you say there are messages for to manage ATMs and ATM cards and uh and stock movements and cash movements so and networks themselves so you can do a lot thank you thank you okay then you know if we're going to pursue this at all probably the right way to do it is is to talk directly to Swift I mean they do have uh um Innovation group you know that's that's probably where the intersection is and that they were they're undoubtedly working on some things in terms of digital assets but you know that basically would mean meeting them at wherever they're going next as opposed to trying to Backward Compatible to a spec that's been around you know they only recently got wide adoption um for it and it's it's taken them you know 20 years because it's basically out of the XML world but that got them out of the the ASCII 89 World which is how the how they were working for for 30 years or whatever yeah thank you thank you for that Insight that's that's really useful um if is there anything anyone else would like to add on that topic no brilliant um nothing if there's nothing else that people want to bring to the table or I'm happy to move to any other business I have something on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "um satpe protocol itself and I guess it's an open question um but this is regarding the end points of the gateways so in particular uh do we want to keep the gate the endpoints um simple just as in the current drafts or do we want to propose a different endpoint for each stage of satp I guess that's that's one of the options that I was thinking of so for example have an endpoint for the commencement have an end point for the uh lock have an end point for the uh lock assertion and so on and so forth but that's just a proposal um what do people think of that so so I can tell you our 2.0 has uses that so there's a there's an API endpoint for the initial like registration the dynamic or static registration of the client and then when you're trying to get this access code then there's a yet a different this is our rest apis but it's got you know different name in respect and then finally yeah token validation so we we could I mean we could you know name each of the stages you know we could split by stage you know stage one endpoint or or as you said maybe more relevant is to the uh you know the the actual uh you know weight of the messages you know transfer commands is maybe less weighty than the than the uh you know or is that lock assertion message yeah yeah because I'm just thinking about uh potential implementations and if there is one end point um just for the Gateway obviously that endpoint will have to be able to handle lots of different messages for every"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "single phase versus if it's different endpoints it'll be easier to implement but yeah maybe we can take the one in the main on the mailing list and if people are happy with the suggestion then we can look at updating the drafts proposed endpoints for each one good idea you know I pose a potentially silly question yep that sitting within the scope of the satp protocol or is that going into Gateway design uh no it's for the protocol itself yeah it's about a product called clear like it's just you know um I think does that uh um it actually helps the other thing right uh correct me Alex is it allows some degree of of load balancing because because you know it's the same endpoint but actually it's behind it it could be two different machines yes exactly and it's also easier to comply with rest standards as well if if it's yeah thank you cool I'll propose on the mailing list and let's see what people think about thank you um anyone else with any other business uh for this we got this review messages from this Lucas part you would I think T3 D3 already discussed this or so it was a lengthy message on April 28th and one of the points I think where he's he's probably completely right is that there's considerable overlap between the architecture document and the protocol specification but maybe I missed something and that was already discussed once no I've not seen any open discussion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "about it on the mailing list the overlap shouldn't be surprising and yeah we could we could we could trim down once we're happy with the with the protocol we can trim it down yeah but he's right yeah there's yeah it's not surprising right uh comment and review about our our drafts about our use of HTTP and things like that so and I think there was not that much reaction uh so a little bit of background on on directorates within the ATF so that was that came from the HTTP protocol directorate and normally um there's multiple directorates that you know there's one for DNS there's one for the security area um things like that and and their job is to review drafts from a perspective of a particular expertise so obviously the security ex you know area directorate reviews drafts looking for um you know issues with security so I guarantee they're going to look at our draft but it surprised me that that one came in so early normally uh they do not jump on stuff until you actually sort of get to last call with you know hey we're we're actually wrapping up this document it's ready to be published and that's when most directors review um I think that the HTTP group has learned that many people don't get the HTTP semantics quite right and so they try and jump on early to make sure that people understand it uh so you know there are comments around this draft isn't ready yet I'm like well if you know I responded and said of course not right it says brand new draft it's just coming out um but I would definitely you know to my advice to the authors would be to to read that and do take it into very careful consideration and then there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "will be multiple reviews in the future and one thing that we can do as a working group as a draft is getting ready to progress is that if we want to reach out to a security to one of the directorates and ask them hey can we get an early review you know before it goes out to our etfy last call to get their expertise uh they they do support that and we could ask them that group in particular and possibly the security group to come back and see what the results look like you know before we get to the point of okay we're really really done and then to find out the last minute that they found major holes in our approaches uh so this comes it's completely from a perspective from HTTP okay I see that thank you good good to raise it and have an open discussion then yeah and I think we probably need to look at it again and uh and see what we need to change or how I think it's more that he that we we are not clear in his mind on certain aspects and we have all the overlap thing is I think quite true foreign thank you sure and with 15 minutes left is there anyone else I'd like to raise any other business at all no if no one has anything else I'd like to talk about or would like to bring up then happy to give everyone 15 minutes of their day back and um uh whereas we'll share the the minutes when he's we need to type them up and we will get the agenda change for the next interim meeting the next one will then be also or shall we say on this one best you said Zoom is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "entirely possible so I think some of it would be easier for some people yeah it uh Zoom is entirely possible if we're more comfortable with it there are some advantages of this one it's more integrated with sort of how the ATF data tracker works and things like that uh it can be I this I believe will be automatically published to YouTube and that doesn't happen with zoom it can be done sort of after the fact if we want it done but um there's some advantages to meet Echo it handles cues and stuff but we're a smaller group so that really doesn't matter so it seems like there is preference for switching to zoom in which case um I can or Claire or Thomas you know one of us can make a a more permanent link do we want to switch all future or interim meetings to zoom is that sort of the uh the preference that I'm hearing or is it just a matter of getting used to it um once I got the hang of it now that you mentioned the benefits I don't know yeah as well yeah I I'm happy to stick with this sorry is this is this uh today I was having difficulties vlogger but that was all my my bad on my side seems to work you've never had a problem with zoom not once right Thomas correct it seems to work better on Chrome that's what I at least on a Mac that's what I'm discovering today yeah yeah I'm on I'm on uh Firefox on an iPhone right now that's why I don't have my camera on one of the other benefits is that meat Echo is also integrated with our blue sheet tracking system which many of you are probably so know that you don't know what blue sheets are but we used to pass"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "around we had to take attendance for legal purposes of of who actually you know was in the room and because the um the meat Echo is integrated with the data tracker you actually get an automated list of of who is you know attending the meeting and things like that I'll be honest I prefer Zoom too but but the the the the weight of some of the other features do kind of you know this is the ATF has spent a lot of uh actual Financial um effort to help boost the meat Echo team and it's kind of unique a lot of the stuff that exists in medeco only exists because the aetf is asked for it even though we're not their only customer like the raising of hands tool and things like that it's entirely yes so okay so it sounds like now there's a little bit leaning toward roll stay with me Deco until we decide that it's problematic good all right Claire's another last call for any other remaining topics wearing my Claire hat thank you so it suits you have um going once going twice and um everyone welcome to 11 minutes back in your day thank you Claire thank you very much [Music] bye everyone thank you"
  }
]
