[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:18",
    "text": "good morning folks if you\u0027re not interested in segment routine now is a good time to leave the room Adrienne thanks if you are interested it might be a good time to leave the room still but you know it\u0027s so welcome to spring 105 we have a fairly packed agenda as usual so we\u0027ll get started if you haven\u0027t seen the note well here is the note well it\u0027s Wednesday I expect you\u0027ve already seen it we need a minute taker and a JavaScript do we have any volunteers the minutes we can do anything apart as usual any volunteers for a minute taker please so so so ok but that\u0027s not great we can look here if you\u0027d like somebody to watch Jabba patron thank you very much indeed Stuart suggests that we need a working group secretary volunteers for that I\u0027m not gonna block on right now so the document status oh and thanks BK the documents later since last time we adopted SIV six network programming I think we\u0027re pretty much they would adopting the SFC drafts that we discussed last time - and the RFC editor is very close to publishing this large cluster of documents that we\u0027ve had all in sort of in dependencies between their references so that\u0027s the MPLS base therapy enter all a bunch of MPLS documents that though that are related some pc ones and then the IGP extensions so this represents a pretty good step forward what this book gets published we were the stage of debating what they are what the order of the RFC numbers should be so I\u0027m thinking at this point where we\u0027re pretty much done with these this is this is good because it also closes off some of our milestones so this is the set of milestones that when we eventually reach arted last year we kind of reached the SR MPLS document we\u0027ve sent YSG that\u0027s great we had this milestone for MPLS anycast this document seems fairly dead and so I think we probably should conclude whether we actually need the document or not and if we do then it is be brought back to life if not we should remove this milestone the yang conflict model "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:19",
    "text": "we\u0027re pretty much there with I think there\u0027s the author\u0027s have now addressed all outstanding comments on it so we just we just need to progress it through the working group process then we have a set of things where we have documents and we just need to figure out what whether we whether there\u0027s an extra work required SRT policy there\u0027s been relatively limited review of the stock I added some comments by it would be good for folks to look through this because it\u0027s it\u0027s a document that most of their other HP HP extensions the PC extensions are dependent on so it would be good to get a detailed technical review on this from the more of the working group face our MPLS so a.m. and performance management we progress some of the LSP pink work in MPLS who this other path Prakash is presenting on today I think what would be useful is to figure out as a working group whether we have anything outstanding there is there anything that we\u0027ve or we need to specify for performance management Bernard is still kind of discussing and would welcome inputs on where we should progress this work should it be done in there Alesso ppm or should we do it here in the spring and sr b6 now programming Cameron is going to give an update on today and policy yang model I don\u0027t think we have a document for this at this point cameras and Cisco Systems yes we do have a document as submitted a dot has expired it was renamed and has been submitted we asked for slot I will probably get next okay that\u0027s great and then the stateless service training work we\u0027ve got the two drafts that we agreed to adopt last time so we\u0027re progressing through some of these I think it would be good to just kind of focus our work on making sure that these milestones get get completed we have a quite a lot of proposals but new work we\u0027re not and not necessarily a bunch of progress on some of these things this is something Byrne and I were discussing yesterday we\u0027d like more technical review of documents working group I think we\u0027re going we have a number of drafts where we we kind of adopt them and then or they come to the working group when we don\u0027t necessarily have have detailed technical review on them so what we\u0027re proposing to do is to have two technical review a gate that says two technical reviews adoption must be done before we consider working group adoption and there wouldn\u0027t last call so what we would say there is like if you\u0027re an author of a document you would like please find some folks that are also interested in your working area and let\u0027s make sure that we get get some review as to whether this looks like the right thing I think we want to make sure that we surface technical disagreement earlier in the process rather than necessarily getting to the stage where we\u0027re late in the process and then folks disagree technically on what the right approaches as we\u0027ve seen with someone today so any comments on this is a particular as a if if we introduced this as a requirement in spring is there a strong "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:19",
    "text": "disagreement to this or any disagreement or agreement okay silence is consensus so this is the silence is not consensus it turns out a cylinder you know you know you can request the chairs can request routing directory reviews both that at both points absolutely I think one of the challenges is the the trying to make sure that the documents get iterated on in the working group so the director I think is great for giving us that that external perspective but it doesn\u0027t necessarily like I don\u0027t think we could sign those folks up for helping with progressing the documents so this is also to train like give us a wider group of folks they\u0027re able to help progress work through the work but thanks easy so this is the agenda we as usual had a lot of requests while actually not as usual this was we had many more requests for this meeting than we had for the previous ones so brunai webpack had looked we have about five hours of requests for two hours of meeting time this time it makes our job particularly difficult especially if there\u0027s been no discussion of the draft and it\u0027s a 0-0 we end up then inevitably having to add things to drop things and and and prioritize the work it\u0027s it please try and make sure your craft is discussed on the mailing list please try and make sure that you\u0027ve got it some import it\u0027s the earlier the better you submit your the draft I think so if you haven\u0027t got a slot on it and please introduce your work on the mainly Liz let\u0027s have a discussion just as a transparency thing the way that we prioritize the agenda is that we first look at whether we have discussions for things are already in adopted by the working group and then by things that have interest in the working group which is usually indicated by what happens on their mailing list if your draft has not been discussed on the mailing list and it\u0027s not a working group item you should probably expect that there\u0027s it\u0027s it is in the bunch of things that we\u0027re not playing that we have to make a prioritization decision about okay so unless there\u0027s any last-minute agenda bashing then I think we\u0027re ready to kick off your hobby I found question so why not we arrange another session for a working group it\u0027s not clear that we I mean we could have added another session we could have added two more sessions but it\u0027s not clear is actually a good use of time right so if we if the reason to have an additional session is just to introduce a bunch of 0/0 drafts that we haven\u0027t got any kind of clear consensus that are interesting to the working group then what\u0027s the bound so I actually in my opinion it\u0027s better for us to have less time and prioritize work the as such that we make forward progress on it rather than we have a bunch of drafts in the working group "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:19",
    "text": "which don\u0027t go anyway hi I\u0027m Bob Hindon just if it\u0027s helpful what we do in six-man for drafts that have not had discussion or new we give them five minutes at the end no you know basically title slide three content slides no discussion it\u0027s just a way of introducing the work and that that\u0027s how we manage this we were proposing to Stelio process with credit okay [Music] okay hello everyone my name is Carmen I\u0027m going to give a quick and short update on a service network roaming draft list of main authors and lots of contributors I think they got chopped and this change but you can look at the draft so we had presented this draft last time in last Montreal ITF ITF one or two so this is really an update since then and it\u0027s like please so so in after Montreal one or two right we have a network roaming indeed your draft version seven based on the feedback from working group and chairs that this was splitting into two document that we took the illustration out of the document and submitted a 0-0 version draft for the illustration and after that the remaining part of the draft basically was adopted as working group document during last ITF so we resubmitted as a draft ITF 0-0 after Prague the next slide since firaga after submitting to as an idea working document we updated this document frozen furthermore the key e changes to the document version zero zero or ITF to version zero one or basically we we added we reposition of the services locator broken into block operator block and a network ID part this was added as request come from control in protocol I think is as president in LSL working group in is is a city structure TLV as well as best working group yesterday for a service itself is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:19",
    "text": "a draft which also used use it as a city structure TLV so this BnB : n repetition of the locator was done based on control pain request we also added a normative reference to SRH insertion draft that was to take take care of a comment that came as a last last ITF we also clarified the use of no next header for ipv6 which is value 59 I have a for the slides to discuss this little bit more in detail but we change our text to clarify a little bit more and also we updated the registration process procedures for our endpoint registry in IANA it was originally specified as ITF review but since other non ITF bodies like 3gpp they can also request the allocation of or requests some endpoint behaviors so I think based on that we change our assertion procedures from ITF review to specifically required as per RFC five two to six guidelines and we also made some under a duty rich base to our version zero zero X like this so so that is version zero one that data stands today what we plan to address in our next revision or so is basically align our network priming draft with Sigma routing header draft which is in osg right now in six-man it has updated sudo codes and behaviors so we plan to update or network roaming to align with with those changes that mean it will be a larger torii other changes to update all over pseudo code to make sure the align with a sh draft after it has gone through I further is your review so that is what\u0027s coming in our next revision and there are future items that we can discuss later next slide please okay so there are the two two main open issues a one was a definition of effective next header field I think this will be no issue once we have already aligned over dropped with the surest draft in the next revision or so then the definition of eh it will really be non-issue because our pseudocode will will be aligned with a Suraj so I think that issue will be solved will not be actually no issue going forward the issue number two is I think though the the main issue that we want to bring to the into the working group is the use of next header 59 which is no next letter for ipv6 so our reasoning for using this in order original proposal and original specification is that the city itself basically defines you know type of packet processing and what is underneath the underneath the ipv6 outer header or a suresh after a setch headers so the basically provides the context of the you know what you need to process after decap saluting the ipv6 and the extraction address and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:20",
    "text": "basically no next header type II V 6 identifies this there is no further no further IP you had to process in the packet it does not necessarily mean there\u0027s a Ethernet header underneath and I\u0027ll talk about that a little bit later so there was a loss of discussion on the mailing list both in his spring and 6-man working group without any clear consensus there were a few suggestions that were that listed here there was proposal to use next set of 97 which is an Ethernet you know base if their IP specification RFC 3 3 7 8 but that that brings some comprise issues and you know then they cause an extra extra alter IP address between ipv6 header and an l2 frame on encapsulation side so there\u0027s that that it has this this descanse there was a proposal to allocate a new protocol value out of Vienna protocol internet protocol registry to specify something like next ID or equal to Ethernet there\u0027s again no clear consensus on that there was also discussion to basically redefine the meaning of 59 and the last but not least is to keep keep using the current use which is 59 so these were all four three or four proposed of that that went back and forth on the mailing list with no clear consensus next slide peace so additionally I think one we like to highlight that most of the solution that were provided you know do not get that - basically ethernet frame or unstructured videos because in cases of 3gp specification under ipv6 encapsulation in ipv6 order header you can have on a structure videos which do not do not necessarily have to be through net frames so they also are using fair value 59 so even if you you know we will define a new type or whatnot the the I think 1 1 specification cannot handle both cases so so that is one thing that is also to keep in mind that we not only have to worry about if the net frame under ipv6 header but maybe Ana structured video is PDS as well 3gpp and maybe of some other feature work going forward and since we already have a 59 which says no next header you know defining another thing that says the same thing really I think doesn\u0027t seems very reasonable to us so at this point in time I think between authors we recommend to keep using 59 you know and as well because some they\u0027re already implementation in progress and probably completed which are already using 59 with the semantics in mind yeah like that says next slide please yeah I strongly disagree you should not be using this no next header an ipv6 means no next header period doesn\u0027t mean "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:21",
    "text": "something else you should do something differently I\u0027m fine if you get a new allocation but like you know this should not break current ipv6 usage and I think this will I mean as we said this fair quite clearly on the mailing list so I disagree with what you just said okay just to reinforce that I do not think the working group can adopt this document with this usage of 59 it is a violation of existing RFC\u0027s and you can pretend the RFC\u0027s means something else they don\u0027t this is very clear there are vulnerable possible alternatives or you can find another alternative I don\u0027t care but you can\u0027t just hijack an existing code point and change its me Tom Herbert so I think there\u0027s a similar issue with extension header insertion so the the draft does update the reference but it references the document that we did describe on 6-man briefly but the conclusion may be the conclusion was you really can\u0027t insert extension headers into packets without encapsulation okay I\u0027m thinking Lorenza kalevi I was I wanted to think you know wanted us all to think about you know how much ipv6 address base this paradigm will need I am you read through the draft and it says well you know the examples here where we allocate a 32 a / 32 for every ruder but we don\u0027t like say how much we need so a 32 / Rooter is very expensive right because if you want to have some sort of reasonable number of rooters you\u0027ll easily end up saying well you know with with some moist edge you end up requiring a large address block just for this now I think saying the exact amount of the draft says the basically the exact amount of space is unspecified depends on whoever deploys this I think given the excessively large amount of space used any examples I think there are two problems first of all we need to give some examples that won\u0027t cause operators to use very large amounts of space and second I think the draft needs to have a credible discussion how much address space is actually needed for a useful deployment of this model because if it turns out that you need a slash 16 to make any of the useful stuff in this document work then it\u0027s not gonna fly unless we get I an Adele to allocate a slash 8 for this right so if on the other hand it\u0027s fine to do it\u0027s fine to say well you only "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:22",
    "text": "need to slash 64 for the whole network then there\u0027s no concern my point is we can\u0027t say this is just a parameter that we\u0027re just gonna move it left and right because if we move it too far to the left that means that basically we\u0027re taking a large chunk of the internet and throwing it away I are you commenting on micro segment Micra see the draft that\u0027s on the draft that\u0027s on the screen right network program draft it it assigns the example of scientists live city to for every ruder loop back through the loop X right no I I just read in example you sing just for Darren Dukes room Cisco Systems just for clarification that I think he\u0027s referring to the example so if you were to use a 2001 DB 8 it says nice 32 it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s a examples are given for brevity and the number of characters it yeah exists just examples they\u0027re just exist examples but I think I think maybe he had another point where he asked for a credible discussion on address space this is a point if you\u0027re okay so if your example is a slash 282 for every ruder a people are likely to follow it and that\u0027s ways tool and be somebody reading it might think that you can\u0027t do anything unless you unless the actual amount of address places on that order of space and that is kind of wasteful and we need to think carefully about it if that needs to come from global space sure we can collaborate that thanks yeah Jenny yeah I like the second what Lawrence is saying because I read the draft and initially to be honest I was confused because I sentient the draught might be confused in ipv4 and ipv6 by assigning / such a two parallel back I was thinking it\u0027s a typo in your surely alright and but the draft keeps saying that is an example and it\u0027s not example met it\u0027s actually a colon colon 1/32 and then be a concur on the 1/32 so you it looks like you\u0027re clearly providing an example of / 32 without any real justification and people tend to follow RFC so I do believe we need to have some discussion on address space which is actually required why it\u0027s required and where it\u0027s coming from so I\u0027m not otherwise had you to go and start working on IDE 12 deployment scenario those are mostly for readability convention what definitely can take this comment and now an update Austin here I just wanted to second what Cayman remains have said but I also wanted to raise the point here that we\u0027re talking about address space here perotta but if you look at what network programming does it talks about endpoints right down "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:24",
    "text": "at the egg mmm that makes this whole worse than a 32 perimeter because this then becomes per docker container I\u0027ve got to be able to share and program all the way to the end and in the context of the examples even if I was using a 48 there the amount of space that I\u0027d be burning would be absolutely you know so this is something we really really need to look at okay so can you send this on the mailing list and we can continue there but we I want to get back to you now it\u0027s a next under discussion first you Brian I want to talk about okay so I was looking at the registry there are about a hundred of these things for the entire life of the internet which we hope is a very long time it seems to me that if you do anything you should put an indirect operator in there because I can see a whole lot of pseudo aisles going over here I can see a whole lot of programs go I can see many constructs so if you go for a new type you really should use that to introduce a shim which you can then play with as long as it as much as you like thank you I\u0027m Banneker Juniper Networks I\u0027d also like to talk about the effective next header two comments first RFC 8200 calls the effective next header the upper layer header might as well use the same term as opposed to redefining a new one second they\u0027re about nine SIDS that require access to the enh to process I\u0027m thinking of SIDS like end dt4 and d t6 when the effective next header follows the SRH it\u0027s easy to know what the effect of next header is when the in some cases when the effective next header does not follow the SRH the only way to know what the effect of next header is is to chase the chain all the way to the end and then go back and process the SID in some cases where there\u0027s an ESP between the SRH and the effective next editor you have to do addy caps of the encryption operation to get there it might be a better idea rather than putting those SIDS in a routing header to put them in a destination options header so the effect of next header will actually be the next header and it\u0027s easier to process there\u0027s no reason to put a destination option in a routing header okay so now your admission that a signature only headed off is getting updated and then E\u0026S you will not be a problem in our next revision but I\u0027ll let their income in mode from my set aside yeah there are Duke Cisco Systems the pseudo code in the SR header drafts you know walks through how and SRH is processed and any subsequent headers are processed Mike Cameron said that that pseudocode style and mechanics needs to be adopted by the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:26",
    "text": "network programming guide no one that does I think your questions well they\u0027re answered simply because the next headers get processed in order well still the process B SID you need to know what the effect of next which means you need to look well beyond the routing header to know what this amazin again in the SR header graphs we describe how that upper layer header is is processed and when that same pseudo code gets used in network programming then this question will be will be moved it won\u0027t exist because it\u0027ll it will describe how that happens the complexity simply goes away people in the destination option there now okay you introduced many extra things if you put something in a destination option either kill the person blah blah blah but you know like we said the pseudo code will solve that yeah and I think we\u0027ll take this for the route to milling list but for NH 59 how do you recommend we take it to mailing list and continue from there so there is suggestion tool to ask for a new door cutter can do and we\u0027ll try that okay so I think other can meet and and all up get on the mailing list thank you anyone who hasn\u0027t signed the blue sheet so I want to thank the chairs for letting me to speak here because I did oh thank you I did submit this draft late I have to say a couple of things one is I\u0027m trying to be helpful you may or not may or may not believe that and the second is this is just a proposal because the idea of managing especially Global\u0027s heads manually or through funky ways teen appealed to me and then because for the ring thing I was going to introduce more of them I decided we need to just tackle the problem the second thing is I just subscribe to the spring mailing list I think I\u0027m going to unsubscribe right now I don\u0027t know what kind of these discussions what enh and stuff is like I don\u0027t know actually I should confess I don\u0027t know DHCP I don\u0027t know ipv6 and I know very little spring but we\u0027ll manage okay so yeah the problem set is basically you need sage to be unique certain types of states that you want to be unique unique in a certain domain maybe an IDP area maybe in a and then a s and so you definitely don\u0027t want to allocate the same said to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:28",
    "text": "two different routers unless you\u0027re doing any caste which is a special case and ideally as a router that resource for some reason should get back the same set now if you do it by configuration you will but if you use other means you need to kind of try to it\u0027s not a master it\u0027s a very very should if you can do everybody should so you can do this with manual management but there are problems and then as the number of such types of shades goes up and the number of paratha goes up this the manual approach doesn\u0027t look very good so so this is sort of a four-man sketch of how this would work it\u0027s yeah it was it was it was a nice you know animation thing but this is fine it\u0027s pretty much what you would expect is a couple of things I want to highlight initially all the routers are provisioned with srgb s which is the same as today and potentially a DHCP server address all those you know some of our discussions are it words putting that in eius eius or something because you know got everything else in a size might have uh put that in because we\u0027re going to use unicast dhcp for this so then any router that\u0027s configured to do a node sales or rings heads or whatever will make a unicast DHCP request for a set of whatever type at once in the the DHCP server basically I mean it doesn\u0027t really care any of the semantics of this all it needs to know is did this router already ask for this it in which case it should give it back if it hasn\u0027t then makes a binding and then it gives us it so it just thinks of this as a block and you know your alligator said you say that that\u0027s it has been allocated to this router and then since its DHCP you have release time but you can keep that to be pretty high and then you reply that said and router or loopback address binding back to the router and now the router can advertise it into IGP or whatever it wants or advertise it so essentially this DHCP loop it replaces a configuration step and then the one thing that you have to do if you\u0027re using DHCP is before the lease expires want to renew your lease and if the router restarts it needs to you know well the DHCP server should make sure it gets back the same said so there\u0027s a timer for the lease and then there\u0027s another timer for how long you want to remember the router to set binding which could be much longer than the least time or it could be the same again I don\u0027t know DHCP but the point is you do want to keep that sticky you do need a back door in case that router is never going to come back or whatever but you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:30",
    "text": "know you could just have that binding unless you are really tight on your sit block you could just have a binding be for a really long time so typically we would use this for notes is anneka acids rain cells which if I have time I\u0027ll talk about it could also be used for all these other compressed sets that we\u0027re now at least having a discussion about the the second part of my talk is I\u0027m sneaking through the backdoor the ring the use of seeds in rings before I go there though I do want people to comment on the use of DHCP for this I see Adrian getting itchy and and and I mean like I said this is trying to be helpful so I you think that this is not a good use of DHCP I should also say that I know the DHCP RFC one of them says don\u0027t use this on routers so of course I want to use it on a router but that said if you have any reason technical reason why this would not be a good thing or if your alternatives I think this should be discussed but trying to get anything that you can make not manual is a good thing I think so Adrian uh hi this is from Jabba I\u0027m not two questions in Java first one is how does this work when you need to SIDS for a device it\u0027s a very good question you want to SIDS for the same prefix yeah it\u0027s not it so it\u0027s it is a good question we\u0027ve had this discussion but not enough and I don\u0027t know enough DHCP but but I do specify that in the draft that if you were requesting a said ring SEDs they come in pairs so you get a clockwise and anti-clockwise so I just want DHCP to do that now can it I don\u0027t know but it should be able to for other cases if you want to SIDS but you have only one prefix we probably have to do an extension for that right so it\u0027s a good measure maybe the person is raised this point can contact you sure off list because you\u0027re not on the list no I\u0027m on the list I thought - I might be on the list at the end of the session in there and the second one from Robert Zoo is why not use this mapping plane instead of DHCP I\u0027m only the messenger to my limited knowledge of DHCP it\u0027s a very good tool for saying up a block of things you want unique allocations I can do that for you DHCP servers over the years have become you know quite clever at doing these things so I think it\u0027s well suited you could use a number of things there\u0027s also a suggestion that we use a s RMS I don\u0027t know what that is but you can use that you can see them really well worse in spring but it is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:31",
    "text": "spring thing so there are alternatives I think it\u0027s great to have a discussion if you take it out of the configuration and put it into one of these protocols I\u0027ll be happy I\u0027m not where it should be at CP just ensures optimum so you\u0027re keen on university sounds like option 82 you don\u0027t really need locally defined sRGB have a central NBC P server and just get right one you don\u0027t need to have configuration and device up from DHCP server just make it ephemeral into it so making it ephemeral is fine srgb s are typically going to be unless you really want to move it it\u0027ll probably be per OS or per release or whatever it\u0027s not something that changes very often unless you have a specific reason for doing that it\u0027s the SIDS that are the problem not the sRGB actually that\u0027s a connection I have to make in the draft that I say that the DHCP returns srgb gama said i think the gates you know you handle asaji B\u0027s as you do today and if you stamp that out if you have like three types of routers in your network and you have three sRGB it\u0027s not a huge thing to configure configuring individual SIDS and making sure they don\u0027t overlap or they don\u0027t clash is a bigger problem that\u0027s the one I\u0027m trying to solve next but I mean again everything is up for discussion I\u0027m going to now lean on the chair I I know we had a big describe this yeah it\u0027s definitely arranged how do you see we use a mapping between the seed with the algorithm is it part of your DHCP request or will it be managed locally base or outer yes what you said I understood the words but I didn\u0027t understand anything so I have to think about that I will I will consult with people who know and will come up with an answer but I mean I think that whenever you have sheds that you want to be global so these are the flags I\u0027ll go sit there possibly flex I\u0027ll go oh yeah you need to know at least locally also hotel to which always yeah so so then it sort of goes back to the previous question that how do I get two or more SIDS so so then yeah I think the request may be more than the prefix of the blue back of the router so you might have other fields so that type may have to be more than that type you might say I want to flex I\u0027ll go but I have a subfield which is the actual I\u0027ll go hmm so yeah all good questions and I think we can extend that okay and regarding the manual manual allocation we are talking about we are not really using manual things today because we have resource allocation too so you are doing your request to get already your seat from a tool which is completely automated the process and then it goes to an automation which will publish on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:31",
    "text": "the scene which is fine yeah but I\u0027m not reading this is about edits just another way to do it right so we can standardize that using DHCP if people think that\u0027s the right thing or we can do it with less for SRMs or whatever but I think it\u0027s good for us I mean if we\u0027re if the spring working group says node said or these unique sets are important I think it makes sense to at least have a recommendation maybe not a mandatory you must implement it this with DHCP but here\u0027s a recommendation from the spring working group of how to handle this unique request okay thank you yeah yeah okay in fact at the beginning of the second routing I already proposed as the SIDS should I be allocated automate automatically and also we proposed the solution based on the piece F under the PGP we believer that\u0027s the PGP I am he say not only the see the allocation but also other functionality can also be used either our network but I think that you you the DHCP I\u0027m seeing little we are the to me I seem like we\u0027re yeah yeah the second one I think well I proposed she said the PGP they produce the Challenger they think the notice idea they seem there\u0027s always this day typically either not always that anomaly it would be allocated so I think that there is a leasing this and maybe not as suitable for that enemy but maybe some of the Pythian say the awesome this can be dynamically allocated this is the second opponent the third point I sinker because you use the DHCP I also think that this a services or maybe some kinda weather you know that\u0027s the ipv6 address for the Rooter I mean so not let us see how you use it you also you that the other CPU to allocate you were you seeing that the cedar either shouldn\u0027t be allocated dynamically by the DHCP server I think the reuters ipv6 address should also can be dynamically used the bad DHCP I completely agree but I\u0027m gonna get short if I say that the thing about ipv6 or any loopback address people want to know what the mapping is from a loopback address to a device and the idea that is allocated by the DHCP server seems to scare them but these SIDS don\u0027t have the same semantics well I\u0027ll be careful how I say this but typically they don\u0027t have the same semantics as an IP address and the fact that this loopback belongs to this router that that sort of mapping is very important to for operations so I think this is well suited I\u0027m totally in agreement with you that ipv4 ipv6 you know loopback addresses they should all be allocated by DHCP I\u0027m not going there but I yield the rest of my time for those who so you have another question on this I deserve a quick comment on all these like from future way so I quite understand why you have this unicast "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:31",
    "text": "DHCP DTV is very clever understanding how to have backup servers and so on and so forth and if you\u0027re gonna use DHCP you should use DHCP which at least all the cast if not broadcast or whatever okay I\u0027m totally happy with that when I actually learned what v8 CP is I will further answer that question having said that I will just sort of have this plug for those who are interested in the RMR use of segments roaring it\u0027s in the rest of the slides but I\u0027ll skip that because we\u0027re wait thank you again for giving a slot and I will start a thread thank you okay give me ten minutes okay Ron Bonica and I\u0027ll try very hard to be as funny as Creedy um let\u0027s go back here we watched SR v6 developed for a while and we talked for closer to the mic like this okay we watched SR v6 developed for a while and we worked with customers and there were parts of SR v6 we liked an awful lot in parts that we felt needed to be improved upon and our response was SR v6 + NS our v6 + we make a very distinction between topological instructions and service instructions taught let\u0027s say thank you a topological instruction is executed on a segment ingress node it causes an action namely to forward a packet to the segment egress node some details it overwrites the ipv6 destination address with the destination address of the egress node and it forwards the packet to the egress node either through a specified link or thoroughly ska staff and it\u0027s encoded in an ipv6 routing header a topological instruction and SRV 6 + is the moral equivalent of an end instruction or an index instruction in SRV 6 by contrast a service instruction is executed on the segment egress node so topological is executed on the segment ingress node service on the segment egress node and there are two kinds of service instructions one is a per segment service instruction it can be executed at the egress node of any segment and typically it doesn\u0027t influence routing an example is expose a packet to a firewall rule expose a packet to a sampling rule and we encode these in a destination options header "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:33",
    "text": "that precedes the routing header another kind of service instruction is the per path service instruction it\u0027s executed at the final segment egress node at the path egress node and typically it influences the d\u0027emic demo be encapsulated a packet and de-multiplexing its payload for example you get a packet pop off the ipv6 header and all its extension headers and forward the payload say through a specific interface into a VPN or maybe get the payload look up its destination address in a specific VPN routing instance and forward it to the next hop you find in that routing table we encode these in a destination options header that precedes the upper layer header now why decouple topological service instructions from well topological instructions from service instructions well the first is so you can use the most appropriate routing header routing headers and or for encoding topological instructions they\u0027re both intended to an effect routing that\u0027s why they\u0027re called routing headers they both execute on the segment ingress node the do h preceding the RH is good for per segment service instructions they can have scope beyond routing for instance they can carry OEM instructions firewall instructions and both are and they\u0027re executed at the right place at the segment egress node do H preceding the upper layer header are good for / path service instructions they can have scope beyond the routing header and they\u0027re executed at the right place we also have a simplified CID semantics a service instruction I a service instruction simplified identifier okay a service instruction identifier identifies a service instruction it appears in the do H it\u0027s not pollute polluted with CID or ipv6 address semantics a CID identifies a segment and the topological instruction that controls it it appears in the RH and it\u0027s not computed with si polluted with Si semantics or ipv6 address semantics an ipv6 address identifies an interface just the way it says it should in the ipv6 addressing architecture it\u0027s not polluted with SII or CID semantics an identifier identifies exactly one thing and we don\u0027t pollute our identifier z\u0027 with each other\u0027s semantics and we never copy an identifier of one type into a field that\u0027s meant for something else for instance the SID that appears on the routing header is never copied to the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:34",
    "text": "ipv6 destination address header there\u0027s a layer of indirection that mediates that and lets you have to go back a second let\u0027s talk about that layer of indirection for a second in a routing header when we encounter a said that\u0027s it as an identifier into a s fib a CID forwarding information base the CID forwarding information base has an ipv6 address that we copy into the ipv6 destination address and it has a forwarding method either forward through an interface or forward through a least cost path or whatever okay so let\u0027s do a little cost-benefit analysis what is the cost of this architecture well we have one more layer of indirect when we encounter a CID in the routing header we have to look in the S Feb to map that CID to an ipv6 address this is required to main separation between the identifier types however it\u0027s not so bad we\u0027ve modeled this on our Asics and we find that even with that extra lookup we can still forward at line speed another problem is we have one more routing routing header type s our v6 defines the SRH we define a CR h they\u0027re both ipv6 routing headers but our routing header type a simpler has fewer fields in it it only has one field that does not also appear in the SRH what are the benefits well we have a simplified routing header we have no need for the tag field no need for tlvs thus it identifies but does not contain an instruction therefore the SID can be encoded in relatively few bits because the CID is short the RH can be short the routing header can be short even when the SID contains a long list of segments and there\u0027s no need to augment ipv6 om because what appears in the ipv6 destination address is always an ipv6 address paying traceroute they all work because from the point of view of the ipv6 header nothing has changed more benefits is you can do some mix-and-match with routing headers and destination options for instance let\u0027s let\u0027s say that you want a packet to be demultiplexed at the end point but you want it to travel the least cost path from ingress to egress well all you need is the destination option options header you don\u0027t need a routing header at all let\u0027s say you want a packet to be traffic engineered from ingress to egress "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:34",
    "text": "but once it gets to the egress you\u0027d like standard RFC 8200 demultiplexing behavior for instance you\u0027d like to use oh maybe a VX land header at the end point fine use the routing header omit the destination options setter mix and match as an option another benefit if you want to use the full set of ipv6 extension headers you can right now the segment routing header draft says the authentication header is undefined with the SRH and this strategy the authentication header works just fine so you get overall simplicity the existing draft covers the subject in relatively few pages and here now granted this was done before this was submitted on the same day that the micro set was submitted so this doesn\u0027t take microsite into consideration this compares the size of the SRH and the CRH with cid depths of various sizes let\u0027s take 8 as an example and the CRA chesed can be encoded as 16 or 32 bits so for an eight SIDS we\u0027re comparing 136 bytes with 24 and 40 so there really is a significant savings we have some implementations we have a complete implementation on Linux that\u0027s both for the forwarding plane and the is is control plane and we will have a Juno\u0027s proof of concept very soon and I see Ravi smiling um anyhow next steps I would like to bring the overview draft draft Bonica spring SR v6 + to this crap group for a call for acceptance and in six-man there are three other drafts one that describes the CRH the routing header one that describes the destination option option header at the end that\u0027s the VPN desktop ssin header and one that describes the destination option header along early segments that second point those will be presented in six-man tomorrow and at that point I\u0027ll go to questions I won though that\u0027s because they are the hopefully the products for this walk I\u0027m sorry could you say that again I mean so the you their angular control Canaan walk yes there is control plane work in fact I think I have a list of no I don\u0027t have associated drafts there was an is is extension that was presented in LS are there are IDR extensions by Sri Hari and IDR and Alliston Andrew Allison has "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:38",
    "text": "another IDR draft the one that\u0027s missing is OSPF that has to be done by the next IDF so my comments are follows so first in our opinion because we I think Edessa you the the purpose of order usage of the SRH or the SR video as re-save class I think maybe the similar I think a you philosophy the infer information carried by the packet is a Yukon no matter you to encapsulated the SI actual or encapsulated the future class the RH so I think there is a from this point of view I think you as are actually the already deployable or already implemented there did we need another set of the future of the effort to define the new set of the control knie are the forward in place the question is is the incremental improvement of SR v6 + / sr v6 sufficient to justify the work and I\u0027ll leave that question for the working group to answer ok i think that ii upon to you that for the shorter days of the header from our point of view if you compress that one butter you master to introduces a state in the foreign inflamed because you must a map at the cedar to sum the ipv6 address I said absolutely that\u0027s what the s fib is but it is not her path state is per segment state and given that that state is easy to to propagate it\u0027s not so bad if you take a look at the is is draft it\u0027s actually a subset of the SRH is is support I think different of ramen this is the design original design the purpose the 4s are actually the state release I justices that\u0027s one the set upon I won\u0027t say that for the shorter header I know that\u0027s why in fact and you now we can already supported up to ten layers of the SRD see it\u0027s the segmented stack from our point of view I think this and not a bigger usual so I think that\u0027s the evil you synced as if you needed to compress that the SI reaction I think we also need a measure that we the elite oppress instead of a huge amount okay you saying you support ten SIDS and SRH that\u0027s a hundred sixty eight byte header yeah okay Jim Jim Iran Jim gives your future a couple of comments you mentioned about the note e of ease required so as you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:41",
    "text": "know there\u0027s plenty of use cases where we may want to carry metadata with the packet and obviously right now we would use the tail v in the s rh to do so if you remove that then you\u0027ve got to carry it somewhere right and what concerns me is if you\u0027re going to carry that before the routing header that could be very very large before you even get to the routing header to be able to do any kind of forward in operation so that\u0027s something to consider if it\u0027s short then you\u0027d go with the destination before the routing if it\u0027s long we\u0027re not trying to compete with nsh no no that\u0027s not my point my point is that your slide said you don\u0027t need T RVs right we don\u0027t we don\u0027t have cases where you probably do unless you want to carry it before the routing header and if you do that then you know that introduces a problem in and of itself yeah if if metadata is bigger than that and it\u0027s time for the nsh okay the second comment I made is and as this slide it\u0027s a little bit misleading but I think you said that yourself because there are ways very simple ways to compress the segment list just so happens that that hasn\u0027t been pursued up until this point so the the use of these one there\u0027s another actually simpler way of doing it that just got published as well and they\u0027ll give any kind of mapping neither of those were published at the time so we need to compare it with that as well as human that that we can do that compression with a second place and it kind of overcomes that yeah that\u0027s for the next next presentation Tony Tony P jeepers yes I think this address is to elephants in the room which so far have been you know painted translucent one is that the five G bandwidth is not free right so it\u0027s wonderful you can build something that does it no 200 bytes headers and maybe even steam power it but ultimately the amount of header you carry will determine the economics of your bandwidth and not only of your bandwidth but also we have a limited amount of power it can push into Iraq and then limit the amount of gates right so they will determine how dense you can deploy something so it is an issue it just determines your economic how much of the bandwidth you carry you charge the customer and how much is just funky overhead you are you caring so do one consideration the other consideration is this is decoupling the service from the transport right which admittedly is not only how we scaled networks up right it\u0027s also something that tends to protect you you have a really large networks and something\u0027s usually melts out right the layers prevent you from having one huge telephony switch that is crooks connecting the whole planet and you have to reprogram an se failures so whether "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:46",
    "text": "this solution we were on something else I think this is just addressing those two big elephants in the room that so far happen just pretend not to exist Thanks thank you I don\u0027t guard Agra a LinkedIn I\u0027m speaking as an operator the the whole idea of actually having SRH is already implemented into a yard where\u0027s it\u0027s already out there with customer deployments with very large scale deployments and then also as you admittedly said there is a micro set which is there which will help with efficiency of MTU I don\u0027t see any reason of having another routing header there isn\u0027t anything which is being added in fact I think there is a bit of a complexity being added over here by adding another header over multiple other headers we have and even for service chaining as you\u0027re saying we need another header which is nsh so I\u0027m very interested to hear technical objections the objection that there is already another solution I\u0027d like to draw an analogy once a man had a horse and he said his horse does everything that the automobile does already so he doesn\u0027t need an automobile that\u0027s fine but there is already there is already but it is already that automobile already has multiple versions out there okay Tom so I\u0027m wondering what your view is on the relationship between this and canonical segment routing is is this intended to be complementary would it be a drop-in replacement for the network programming I\u0027m sorry I missed a word between this end segment segment routing proper that\u0027s our MPLS so is a complimentary two to be a follow-on how does it interact with all of the rest of the segment it\u0027s it\u0027s a complimentary spelled both ways it\u0027s complimentary and that both should exist both work for some sums group of customers and it\u0027s complimentary in that the SR v6 + architecture mimics the SR MPLS architecture in ways that s our v6 does not SR v6 + mimics SR MPLS in that topological instructions are executed on the ingress node it mimics it in many other ways that s our v6 diverges from it so is the implication of the + meaning this is somehow superset no it\u0027s complementary with the complements been spelled both ways women Oh Bob\u0027s next really good tonight after I Bob ended so I\u0027m here with my six-man co-chair hat so I would like to ideally I would like to hear clear feedback on this from the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:47",
    "text": "spring working group as the weather year this is going to progress or you\u0027re interested or something or you\u0027re not it might be more importantly you\u0027re not interested so we don\u0027t have to repeat all these talks forever in six-man - so be good if you could figure out how you\u0027re going to decide how to deal with this or not I I don\u0027t have a strong opinion one way or the other but we would like to know thank you okay women we magnetics from McKeon so if you look to the current state of affairs with as our v6 I think there is multiple proposals what what has been done so far you see that if you really implement with full flexibility there is probably some performance penalties you will have in certain hardware elements if you want to run them at high speed all right I think the the question I have is and this is mainly question to the working group not directly to yourself is you will see that we need probably an optimization from what we have today with Azure v6 right meaning as a rich base right - something more optimal which is more performant and doesn\u0027t have the those drawbacks potentially and in certain hardware element and the question to the working group will be do we want to adopt multiple of these options or do we want to have a discussion okay which one is the most preferred more optimal and more hardware friendly rather than trying to boil the ocean and come up with multiple multiple alternatives because if you look to what you are proposing here there is today even working on complement its MPLS based but it uses so it\u0027s segment routing and pella\u0027s over UDP which is using a v6 destination address which is actually doing exactly what you do here it is using MPLS and cooling but it uses 32-bit which is an MPLS label which is actually doing more or less the same thing what you have here and the questions which I have to the working group is mainly do we want to adopt like all of these different options because we\u0027ll end up implementing all of them if we have multiple options and I don\u0027t think we do an industry a favor because we will end up competing into the market and we will have to implement them all and it will take a longer time to actually adopt that towards the industry so it\u0027s more working group type of computer bring it brings up an interesting question there are three ways we can go we can have a shootout among options we can try to merge options or we can let all options grow and let the market decide right so this is a clear question to the working group ian\u0027s yeah I think we I give us exactly the last call question yes and I even work group adoption question I think the question is actually what does the working group wants to get out of this I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:47",
    "text": "do believe that there is an optimization required from what we have today and I would be of the opinion to basically try to come up with one proposal on how to do that optimization rather than trying to follow the ocean and let the market decide okay Andrew I\u0027ll say at front I was a co-author of this but I\u0027m going to take that hat off for a second and speak as an operator when we got involved in this draft we did so because we looked at the network that we run today and frh with the overheads when we get the calculations on our package per second rates and the overheads and the numbers of since we were stacking and everything else the overheads were untenable keep in mind though I run a very large network in a place where bandwidth is not expecting it is not cheap you know there were places where I\u0027m not getting bandwidth the 20 cents a mega pay $50 a MEK that overhead starts having real impact at points and so when we started looking at this I just wanted to say that that cost of that overhead has a fundamental impact and we talk about operators and operator positions within the working group - as the previous speaker was talking about from my perspective as an operator I could not justify deployment of SRH today because of the overhead and when I look at the other things with regards to this drop I know exactly how with this draft I can stitch between l1 and l2 segments I know that the Strasse is not going to inflate my IGP which could happen potentially with lightness it drops there are a number of other issues but I just wanted to say that as an operator that\u0027s why we got involved in this because we looked at it and looking at the market that I operate in and the very large network that we operate across all of those countries I couldn\u0027t I could not work with SRH in its current form and I saw what because of the overhead conclude things first we could Zeleny for so we could delay before you because right okay we don\u0027t you know be briefed on short okay so I say you know there\u0027s a career that\u0027s the the operators opinion so my opinion sau the week I used the messer that the elite who press so that\u0027s the first the second or I think that is regarding these of the key loading efficiency usual I think this they are so the possible way like the Pythian cedar or some other can solve this one and also we see in Cadiz the pillow the efficiency but I think or five years ago the Akio the thunders of the label had "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:49",
    "text": "the usual by the weary trail will trail back the ipv6 we should not renew the sixteen bias at the crest or maybe we need a lot of the external header but we must agree the requirement so just a comments about the name of the solution so based on my understanding about this craft I think it\u0027s a different from the current service a so I think it\u0027s better to have another name for this assertion I\u0027m sorry I didn\u0027t understand the last thing you said yeah it\u0027s better have another name for this oh I couldn\u0027t call it anything you like you know David Melman from Marbella am I totally identify with the the issue of the the size of the the cid list and you know Marbella the silicon vendor we certainly see the pain points as well in supporting a large sit list but I\u0027m wondering whether the approach of doing MPLS SR MPLS over IP couldn\u0027t isn\u0027t already an acceptable solution for doing sort of the compressing Lee the CID list using MPLS labels as assets well that\u0027s an argument and in that case for getting rid of both SR v6 + sr v 6 + we see that there are some operators one who just stood up who is going to make his case for needing an 86 okay I\u0027m gonna read his mind he\u0027s gonna make his case for ipv6 as is exactly the case that everyone who\u0027s spoken in favor of SR v6 + thing they need an ipv6 they state data plane well SRM pls over IP supports an ipv6 data plane correct in terms of the forwarding well more than that okay so you asked for adoption we think it\u0027s too early okay could I ask those could I ask at least for the reviews to get it on the on the path or at least people what\u0027s that yeah but he went on the line after because that I enjoy to be fair so the rule is the same for everyone okay so what would the next steps be so it\u0027s too it\u0027s too early for work sensing for my concealer or any other extension for sanding just to remind the working we already have a solution music that depend on its color Savi 6rh suppose six man on spring I\u0027ve been working for five years on it so we starting from scratch we do have a solution so if it\u0027s not good enough or something is missing we need to understand exactly what the issue is so is it specific to a specific deployment needing a lot of seeds so coming back to your pure figure what is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:51",
    "text": "the limit what the norm of seeds you need same questions wind with implementation what exactly are also limits other constraints is it specific to one implementation or is the issue is a large for all industry so winds we need one is not the problem compared to what we have both the service six on SRM pls and then we can discuss if we agree that there is a problem on we agree on the constraint then we can discuss so we\u0027d ask them for people who see a need for something else to speak up on the list yes but they need to understand to specify our example this is a wonder what is their limitation what was the problem something for deployment what is the requirement determine of number of theta because in the end we will have to and if he goes what is the right value for the city for us I guess it was easy we took the size of the embedded seat which is 20 bits for a service 6 we choose a ipv6 address which is 128 if we define a new seed on our own we have to choose the values the size so we know we have to know the constraints okay so that sounds like not so much a mandate from the chair to go away but let\u0027s bring the conversation to the list yes we need to understand what what is the problem compared to a service 6rh in working on 4 5 0 on SR MPLS on SR impedance in UDP so we are ok done already I just want to make sure that I understand the direction I don\u0027t have a comment for Ron I just want make sure that it\u0027s in the direction that you\u0027re setting what I think you said is that for now the workgroup has a solution but we want to understand if there are holes whatever something needs to be done which sounds like you\u0027re leaving the door open to say we could have a different solution is that I mean after a proper discussion in here I think the challenge is we probably don\u0027t want any improvements over time right it\u0027s fine for us to look at technology and say hey this is not right but we need to understand what the constraints you want to engineer within are like two boys the product the set of problems we\u0027re going to solve what the constraints are and then let\u0027s look at the solutions that we have out there and say a is the advantage of them significant enough that they\u0027re worth progressing called like adding into the industry or and if if they are then we progressive if not you should but we don\u0027t want I think for a nice yesterday we don\u0027t want ok like his sov 6 plus and here\u0027s s7b 6 plus plus and his IP 6 plus plus plus that works perfectly for me I just want to point out that I believe that six men already working group that\u0027s called and sent to the ASG the SRH document so if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:52",
    "text": "we are going to think about it maybe we need to let so whose power is possible for that draft know that a little bit doesn\u0027t mean stop completely it means as you said we might think about it for a little bit and then go back and say yes keep going or something I don\u0027t it again that\u0027s why I want to clarify what we are thinking I think we have I think that\u0027s an interesting position right those so for us to say that we need to say the current SR v6 ISM actually useful right and I think that we\u0027re not necessarily the there\u0027s it didn\u0027t sound like you\u0027re saying entirely that you think it the existing thing is not useful I think you\u0027re pointing out limitations and then potentially improvements on top well I I tried very hard to be neutral towards existing SSR v6 the one thing that I\u0027m most concerned about is that because we\u0027ve gotten where we are we are now ossified and that we will obstruct any more progress i wanted assurance we\u0027re not there with that assurance I\u0027m fine with SRH progressing is Krishnan talking us into ad 84 six men so I\u0027ll tell you what my working assumption is okay so my assumption is I\u0027m sending sr v6 forward unless I like hear screaming from the spring side so that\u0027s my working assumption like I\u0027m I finished my ad eval like the others are fixing the stuff and it\u0027s gonna go into ITF last call so that\u0027s how I see it and we also gated nes our v6 related at work in six-man until the sr h was done okay so there\u0027s like a bunch of drafts that it\u0027s going to get some air time tomorrow like talking about extensions today okay so maybe that\u0027s something we can play with but I really would be worried about pulling the plug on this at this time okay so analysis like some catastrophic even telling me like oh like this is like we totally screwed ah blah blah blah I\u0027m sending this forward like as the ad for that and the second thing is like Bob kind of alluded to this right like we are kind of looking for guidance from spring to see how s our v6 + related work is going to happen in six-man so like we are expecting spring to say like hey like you\u0027re considering this da da da so we can then we say can you do like headers or like options and six literally 6 plus so similar like we are we\u0027re treating SR and si we 6 plus the same way so spring tells us like this is that picture we are considering it now do the things for that right like I have this chat wrong as well right so the idea is like so the SRB seat stuff the SRH is going forward like unless like something drastically changes and all the add-on work for SL v6 is going to be considered at some point right like you don\u0027t know when if we\u0027re just doing lightning talks at this point because we get at this for two years so that\u0027s kind of my working assumption so if you think some office off like you know kind of taught me and the six million shares and so so I know like you guys had a good conversation on how we distribute the work between six nine and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:52",
    "text": "spring but I think if something has changed like we would like no hi I\u0027m Daniel void from Bell Canada and I\u0027m going to be presenting the asabi 6 micro said on behalf of a few authors to say the least okay so the srvs magazine concept is a new network programming set behavior it follows the normal and that are already defined it\u0027s seamlessly combined with the other method gave EUR it\u0027s fully integrated with the network programming and the SRH and it offers incrementals for deployment in SRV six network it also enable there\u0027s a v6 scaling for massive network with optimizing to you so how does the work yeah so the Mackinac Blessed behavior it\u0027s another variant of the Antoine behavior it\u0027s a ad bit argument that contains the next macro said in the macro said carrier so basically upon receiving a packet whose ipv6 destination address is a local Mackinac it said the node would perform the following the 16-bit following the active macro said with inside the destination address if it\u0027s set to zero then it will shift the 48 200 into a bit 2 by 16 bit to the left and then it will set the last 16 bit to 0 then we\u0027ll forward otherwise we\u0027ll execute the end to the code and that\u0027s pretty much what we have to understand from the micro said the n2 the code is defined in the section for the one of the network programming draft so few benefits just like any other service our v6 and point behavior it\u0027s a new instruction for the SR v6 network programming it\u0027s SRH compliant there\u0027s no new ipv6 extension required it has some efficiency in terms of empty usage it\u0027s scalable for the SRECs with 18 source routing we point in a 40-bit 40 byte SRH sorry the version that we just published last Monday the little difference is the last bullet here we made it any ipv6 block available to Annabel can be used instead of the ule that\u0027s the difference between the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:52",
    "text": "version 0 in division 1 re benefits it\u0027s our friendly so for us a lot of operator there one from my previous slides it\u0027s kind of key that that we can be in control of the asabi 6 appointment on the legacy platform as as an example the Jericho one and orderly gives a platform that exists so if you if we have already these platform in the field now with this option in this proposal we can keep running a savvy success deployment there is no control it\u0027s pretty much control differently there\u0027s no mapping table there is no writing extension regard that\u0027s it the before before we go to questions I think most of the comments on the compressed either applies to you to the proposal so thirsty what is the problem exactly with SRS or SIDS we need to define it so there are number of claims every every time sites are web friendly but site was supposed to work so it\u0027s forcing horizontal plates so we need to understand exactly what what is the problem so the SRH were supposed it is working on many platform we have a couple we have a draft that shows some deployment but it\u0027s more on the legacy platform and anyone that has some Jericho wants and their networks unless there\u0027s something specific with some vendor or some other legacy platform will be able to run a saw v6 with those proposal Devon but we knew that when we definitely Raj we knew the size and Suraj we knew that those legacy platform will not support it so what you so just dare nukes Cisco Systems the just want to point out that there\u0027s the this still uses the SRH as its defined it doesn\u0027t change that yes RHS RFC I can carry microsites there just to CID like any other CID the SRH draft also says that additional suits can be defined in the future and it gives a way of defining those suits this is this is just another SID so it\u0027s it\u0027s normal operation for SR v6 yes we use this a rich from the design its it does change forwarding on ipv6 packet and that\u0027s even be played music packet because just like so like any other you look at is their agent you know well except for the other part that says else execute the end pseudocode the and pseudocode describes how the SRH is processed and they believe there\u0027s a reference in the draft to the to the programming craft as well so yes sir H is used within a with by a micro said if its present reusing the cirrage does not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:52",
    "text": "say that doesn\u0027t mean that we don\u0027t change anything them for my IP six don\u0027t point so ya know if we work on that we we need to work with six pen tool to see if it\u0027s fine for my success and in a joke and hit it yeah this is just another it\u0027s just another sit maybe I\u0027m not following the question it\u0027s as any other city receive it you process it you do the action thats it says to take and go to the next city which is carrying the arguments okay Chung from Maui and first of all I think it is the right direction to enhanced as a HBase s up the six case we what are we has done in the right in the same way but I don\u0027t think this solution is flexible enough cuz each time when you introduce a new ceased and you have to make toys implementation for the normal seed and you seated right and that all the seeds would introduce the the root which means the roots are knitted 4-h seats including the you seed no and you see such as HSN C HSN Cu CT yep so my point is only supposed to loose tea right now and if we want to support like Street te then new seats new uses are knitted right and the second point is I saw the profits is changed from 16 to 32 pitch does that mean people cannot afford the 16 bits professors it will burn all the artists in that block right since the the address shifting and and the last one is I don\u0027t think the 80 beats argument in da is correct yeah yeah maybe you should use an arrow name it is no argument and finally I don\u0027t think it\u0027s supposed to reduce mode because when you use the reduce mode and the post information will be lost and by the way we have post draft to define a new solution yep do you expect I answer all your points or we can just okay it\u0027s okay okay no if we can take it offline and it\u0027s better to fill it up like the times limit Thanks no stiffens hi Andrew here from I wanted to just say you know I was listening to what you were saying about it just being another SIL type it\u0027s not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:55",
    "text": "and here\u0027s why if this is just another sip time I\u0027m not having to distribute it in my IGP if we know that I want to steer through in a way that is going to end up in my standard v6 foot which when you\u0027re running low from devices on the edge you are going to dramatically dramatically increase the size of my AGP which could have consequences serious cost consequences on on the ITP when you\u0027re adding more and more and more because these are v6 addresses from that perspective and we spoke I was listening earlier when they\u0027re talking about legacy hardware and support this because it\u0027s nice for legacy hardware because it doesn\u0027t have to do label processing but look at the counter-argument to this the legacy hardware is slowly ferb small devices and the very thing where you\u0027re helping on the one you\u0027re shooting it in the foot on the other because of the increase in the third size and that to me is a really really major concern I saw from the address space you\u0027ve got issues with the address space but that inflation of the IGP that this will cause from the way I read it is is a massive problem and it\u0027s not just another set that\u0027s an address because it\u0027s being propagated straight in from my normal v6 third there\u0027s a couple point in what you mentioned the IGP scale I think there\u0027s I think it\u0027s not correct I think there\u0027s techniques to address that and the second point that you mentioned is small legacy things I think we should probably step go I find to really go in deeper what you mean I\u0027d be pleasure to do so after this workshop yes so if I can just add one other thing that I forgot as I was walking away yeah ingress in order to reduce first normally we use a lot of l1 l2 areas in a v4 world we can stitch you know labeled unit cost yes or MPLS etc can you explain to me with this because I couldn\u0027t get it I really try how I\u0027m going to do that kind of l1 l2 stitching while preserving the ability to sphere across both without flooding my l2 area because I couldn\u0027t understand how to do that I really looked and I couldn\u0027t grasp it in the context of this maybe I\u0027m missing something I said we\u0027ll we\u0027ll take it offline because I think we\u0027re gonna stand here all the way for 412 but yes there\u0027s techniques for that I\u0027ll be a pleasure to discuss one good point sorry that Iran as common as the Cisco Systems Dan said their techniques you not do not necessarily you know impact your GP scale there are techniques where you can advertise one prefix that covers both and by the way will you\u0027re saying we are go time is it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:55",
    "text": "we are not advising sit in it is locator which is the ipv6 prefix what we can continue more on offline Stephanie from Orange so question is not for you how the chance because I I don\u0027t have any opinion what would be the good solution okay so I completely agree if you approach that we need a kind of Purim statement what kind of current do we need to have to solve today but what kind of information are we really looking for to know what is a problem I think what we need is what are the other limitations today and what even if it\u0027s not really a limitation what is the extra cost and the basic production to get a CH working properly all the use cases that we need at line rate and do you really expect the vendor to disclose this because for SMPS we have never been able to get this information while today we still have some other issues with existing platforms that\u0027s a good question it\u0027s clear that if everyone says that they can do everything that\u0027s not true yes but if they do say that there is no problem tom of hardware and we can network solution right limiting the internal hardware yeah but I\u0027m already worried that we will never be able to know that there is a problem to solve so do you have a suggestion and fortunately we can we can just get information today that a7p we are not able to do everything that we want today with existing platform with SM MPLS so we can foresee that with SH with it which is using bigger lengths of seed we will have bigger problems that\u0027s what\u0027s wrong but yeah such just a statement we are not sure because we are not able to get the right information so the issue is a Jewish issues with 10% of deployments or 90% of deployments on same thing we have issue with 10% of hardware or 90% of hardware we have to know some kind of information because we got accept 20 solutions what you\u0027re trying to do do you want to do work kind of animal survey to the vendors and operator it\u0027s a good point right but it\u0027s the same discussion we said we had about like oh how long does this in stack look in MSRP less at the start right like I think when I was I was at an operator that was looking at Jason cease its pecking and we had debates about this I think we have to rely on the working group to bring Anik data if it\u0027s not definitive data right like this this is the you know some some indicative data about what the constraints are and we know it\u0027s not going to be perfect but the problem is if we say okay there\u0027s no "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:56",
    "text": "no data at all then like at what point do we do have a problem like mmm one solution could be say well make it look as much I guess our MPLS as possible because we know what the constraints are MPLS ah and there\u0027s these folks deploying it we probably want a bit more of a guidance than that to be able to figure out what the right things but the point is completely about it and that\u0027s the challenge we have here right it\u0027s very easy to stand up and say hey this thing isn\u0027t optimal but how important is it not be not sure comment on the previous question so they\u0027re tourists if that define MSB and it clearly state heavier when they\u0027re communicating to machine to machine interface what your platform supports that could be advertised in a GPS and P set bgp so your PC can actually compute path properly if you\u0027re a customer operator demand here when they\u0027re takes process limitations I think proposing to advertise in MSD so ability for each footer to be able to push many accuracy exceeded so apparently there is a willing to advertise that such out where value in the a GB in which case it will be prediction in which case we can send it to the Imperius around MPs or as a springbok know Ron Monica Juniper Networks one of the advantages of ipv6 paste segment routing over MPLS based as you retain retain a trace of where the packet has been you don\u0027t pop every label off along the way and micro said is there a way to retain a trace of where the packet is and what is the cost of that in terms of encapsulation size yes in the network programming draft I think there\u0027s a section for that 13 that describes like if you want to do like a trace char or something like that when you have or what is the cost of that well a common is a Cisco system if you don\u0027t do the reduced version then Dennison SRH although you can have a shifted forward and updated destination but asserted you still have the actual destination okay so it\u0027s 128 bytes then the next question is in the draft and the example in the draft the only thing that the SRH carries is an NB t for that is to be that has nothing to do with routing it\u0027s actually a destination option why is that in a routing header given that there\u0027s no routing to be done by that routing header it\u0027s a good question maybe you can write it in the in the mailing yes I know I\u0027ll take care to reply to it okay Carter darling then speaking as an operator I think this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:58",
    "text": "a step in the right direction especially all the simplifications which comes with SRH even though and also this handles the MTU efficiency which is what Dan was also referring to is the for the legacy hardware so I think this is applicable at least in our scenario sorry we couldn\u0027t hear you if you can send your question on jabber maybe genuine cover just like dimensions as comments we we made regarding the network programming draft actual applies here I am glad to see that you la usage I was removed from the draft but I still think we need to clarify on the draft Awards address space you need what the size of it and because currently it\u0027s unclear you said any address space - I see so it could be 32 / 48 can it be / 64 like so I think more analysis meet on address space and where is it addressed voices coming from probably a as long as I mentioned in my request special block from Ayana which is not publicly routable and could be used by a network - in basically concern about using too much of address space without proper justification so we\u0027ll clarify that in upcoming versions but the short answer is yes it does apply to a many type of prefixes so obviously the shorter it is the less you said you\u0027re gonna have but put clarify that so my question is with respect to the end or TT force if that appears in an example in a seperate SRH in the draft so this also comes out of the locator space so can it also be a micro search so it appears as part of micro site rather than a separate are saved in the SRH did you get that yeah that would be future work in the draft [Music] in fact I insisted as the if we want to solve this circle usually so the concern I think that\u0027s oh we need to press I think that that\u0027s for the US Army are so they are already you the Pythian see the solution I think this is amateur I singly so first of all the second why human you the SRX sure this compression we proposed the word draft that\u0027s the user can compatible with the SR action without user control click extension I hope that you can refer to this one okay thanks thanks it visca so i just want to make a comment on only andrew\u0027s comment about the HIV exploitation with a microchip there\u0027s none there is no difference in advertising the mic receipt and a regular see if you have any concern i would like to know we can take it offline and talk of the meeting I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:41:00",
    "text": "Monica juniper a minute ago we said that we could put the NDT 4 in the ipv6 address along and the microstate along with all the other SIDS if that\u0027s the case what do we need an S RH for outside the scope of this lecture maybe I can that brings a another question that is probably for the AE given the conversation we\u0027ve had around the interaction between micro seeds and the network programming draft and CHS actually gonna sorry run if I can answer your first question like we already said that you can put multiple microstates at NS our header ok if you need to be frozen yeah yeah add more ok you want to be only actually do you want to maintain the state put in yes our header yes our header draft and definition is still exists and this is compatible with it so don\u0027t for use in cases where you\u0027re bent your you need fewer than 7 SIDS you wouldn\u0027t need any college right now LDS our header graph says that nests our source node may or may not add an SR header and that\u0027s already in the draft and that\u0027s something that we\u0027ve well with it\u0027s been in there for a very long time it it applies to this microstate at a place every sit so there\u0027s no I don\u0027t I don\u0027t think there\u0027s any discussion to be out there but we could take it in the milling lists formally providing them and then the rest of my comment is probably addressed to alvaro given that we\u0027ve discovered these new interactions between micro said and other SIDS and other things it kind of makes me wonder how far the network programming draft is from being mature maybe a working group but far from mature so so far micro Celia has not been inducted so it\u0027s zero the one presentation so so far there is no interaction with working document you willing if if you willing to contribute in the micro said you can discuss we care anything else now let\u0027s move on to the next presentation [Music] my name is Chad I\u0027m gonna talk about detailed procedures draft on behalf of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "my co-authors so since the last presentation we have new co-authors contributing to the draft a short background on what this draft is all about so the mpls tres loud procedures uses TTL expiring mechanisms to visit every node so it needs some kind of a special handling for PHP cases and this this draft is talking about the solution for penalty might hop nodes for trace route so in this version there is an update on how the TTL procedures need to be handled for binding sites and the next few slides talk about how it is done for bindings it so in short there is no big difference from how it is being done today for other hierarchical LSP cases from a 0 to 9 so it\u0027s just a clarification for binding how it can be done for binding sites because from last presentation we had questions you know that how this is done for mine exits so we see here a set of routers R 1 2 R 6 and there\u0027s a path set up using two labels one thousand and six and eight thousand one eight thousand one is a binding set that expands in two thousand four thousand five so that that\u0027s the SR path that\u0027s being built so if you have to do a traceroute procedure for this so there are two different modes in which this can be done a uniform mode and a short pipe more uniform mode would visit the nodes in which is concealed by this binding set and the short pipe mode would would take a hop from the from the the node that advertised binding set and would not reveal the nodes that are that are represented by that binding site so so in in the step one if we see here we the r1 would send to sits that is one zero zero six and eight zero zero one so that would go with the top one go would go with the TTL of one and then our two would it would visit our two and then it would look at the eight zero zero one and inform of extract change as defined in RFC a zero to nine and then the feck step change would would have those two facts 4 1 0 0 4 and 1 0 0 5 in uniform mode so the next step our one would increment the TTL and send it to our two so the TTL would on our to the if you look at step two it comes in with 2 and then it get TTL on it it it doesn\u0027t one gets decremented to one which gets "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:47:01",
    "text": "copied onto the new label stack that I got pushed which is a thousand four and thousand five and the validation for thousand four would happen on r3 and r4 which is very similar to what\u0027s already been discussed there\u0027s no no change and every the packet visits every node the TTL on if you see bindings it keeps increasing which gets copied on to both the labels that got pushed because of the vinyl set and that\u0027s step three the thousand four get popped and that gets the the TTL gets copied on two thousand five and when thousand five gets popped in the step four it says it\u0027s it\u0027s a PHP and then sew the bottom label on r1 gets incremented to incremented with one so you receive a packet on file with a thousand six with the TTL of one and then the the facetious continues for a short pipe mode you don\u0027t really want to reveal the network which is concealed by this binding set so you don\u0027t copy the bindings it\u0027s TTL on to the other labels so you continue with the TTL of 255 so you the traceroute would not visit r3 r4 and r5 and the packet arrives at our five and then it directly looks at a thousand six and then that\u0027s how the traceroute will continue so this is an MPLS working group so we will send a request to MPLS working group to adopt this document questions in comments the form Cisco Systems I have just one comment is nothing new right this is known this is how it is do we need to document this so basically the it seems like the this is how it is to be done is not very clear in in from the existing documents and that\u0027s the comment we got that you know it needs clarifications so that\u0027s what is being so there are two things the PHP stuff that that needs to change and that is this clarification which is nothing new but an explanation of how it is to be done yeah they just want to find out you receive coming from customers that need clarification yes yes so actually this was a comment from last times presentation that\u0027s why the so basically this document mostly should address the TTL procedures things that are not clear from the existing documents Berger I guess this might be a comment more for the MPLS working group since that\u0027s where the document is something that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:02",
    "text": "would be really worthwhile to clarify and maybe it\u0027s a little too big a scope for this document but it\u0027d be good if there was clarification on what srte is you reference a document that doesn\u0027t mention te at all as the defining document of srte I think working that may impose working group would be great but we need a definition of it if we\u0027re gonna use that term yeah I mean actually to the chairs you did reference an srte policy document and I looked and there\u0027s no SR te there\u0027s no te mentioned in that document as well I don\u0027t mind using the term but let\u0027s define it and I think if you want to do it and then tell us it\u0027s awesome yeah sure yeah it\u0027s just they didn\u0027t do one pls te next is the farm I believe so in Siena it\u0027s going to be clear that we are not going to two to zero or agenda we had a long discussion on that program in Ian which is an important complement so I think it was important but a long discussion and do we need to do something to reduce the side of the size of yessuh basics cedar which I think was important or so but so we have to apologize to the fara rakish of Zeebo apparently we there\u0027s no way we\u0027d be able to to prison many many things sorry great Thanks so this is the SR v6 onm job that I\u0027m presenting on behalf of my co-authors this is next next yeah so basically the work this work is started two years back this has been reviewed and presented to six men and spring working group multiple times there has been revision and comments on the mailing list and all these comments have been addressed there was some offline discussion as well a meaning of frank discussion alcohol on the draft so from that is draft has been very stable there are deployments they are there is a draft that describe all the deployments is a public information the deployment of Softbank channel telecom they deploy a lead network and their additional deployment in preparation and this draft is part of the deployment from implementation side we have at least 10 platform shipping this information there are other known implementations and public information information is publicly available at the draft mentioned here and there was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:53:05",
    "text": "interoperability done at EA NTC back in march and then it was showcased in a pro at MPLS for congress we we have also done some additional private interoperability among multiple vendors and some of the details are in that draft that I mentioned for deployment status for draft summary and it basically defines öbut slacks already are defined in SRH so it defines one of the flags as the öbut is defined the usage that flag and it defines to onm sets and dot o P which is for you receive a packet and then you have enduro peace if you want it and when the Oh end or OTP which is you receive a packet this time is Tamron punted it then defined usage of this these toolkit for ping and traceroute and it also extends the path monitoring which is in RFC 8284 or three for a servicing network the main point that I want to discuss here is that where the chairs would like to proceed this draft we can take to position one position is that the flags are already fine in Salvi six network programming so other working group can define a flag in its usage and so spring can define that for example and or with obviously review done at six men all the expert reviews done a six then the other option would be that this draft actually get proceeded at six men but at the moment at this idea if you would really like the working of adoption we don\u0027t have any preference whether it happens here in six men or it happens here in spring or it happens six men but there has been multiple implementation and deployment if this graph is been there for long and I presented multiple times if India for two years actively discussed so it\u0027s time for the adoption for this draft so waiting for this work to finish from from be stable so it\u0027s now it\u0027s moving to is G regarding whether it\u0027s to be turning spring on six manner we don\u0027t have an opinion by by default it\u0027s it\u0027s like basically a extension so six man has priority okay but so we discuss with six men trails and destroying I don\u0027t have any approvals yeah so we will this is on a gender for six men so I asked that option is six men and you for this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:06",
    "text": "stuff yes you can also take it it\u0027s expanded say that excellent thank you any questions comments okay thank you I think given that we only have four minutes we want to try and ask somebody to squeeze their presentation and that was ten before so nothing else then I would propose this is closes string for this meeting Oh ragosa\u0027s that he can cover in four minutes there we go okay so it\u0027s left four minutes to go we have a short presentation on Frank good morning everyone my name is Lucas Kennedy and I\u0027m presenting the IOA m4s our MPLS data plane on behalf of the authors and contributors listed so requirements and scope procedures and next steps so basically this is carrying the iom data fields with the sorry MPLS and capitalistic encapsulation what that means is their way i am information carried by the data traffic so we are using the data fields defined in the i ppm working group document so far we\u0027ll be looking at the end to end io am and we will add hop-by-hop iom in future so the end capsaicin has indicator label as well as the data fields defined in the i ppm working AB document so basically encapsulation node inserts the indicator label as well as the IOM data field in the header and d-cap node forwards the packet but takes a timestamp copy of it for IOM and it also removes the indicator label as well as the data field so there are three methods that\u0027s possible for the indicator label allocation the first one is the ini allocation there can be a global label that\u0027s allocated by a controller or a signaling mechanism so we can take the feedback from the working group on which matter to go with there is some implication on hashing as well the couple of them listed here definitely if the indicator label has the end of stack get set then the zero four zero six type II protocol there the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:59:07",
    "text": "IP hissing looks for that so that may not work as well as if the hashing is using the labels then now it may include the indicator label as well so next steps we will add some more details on the ecmp hashing we can also include the hop-by-hop iom if there is interest for that work we welcome your comments and suggestions and we are seeking for working up adoption thank you one question have you present it to MPs working group have you present either yeah I presented this on Monday okay approve it it\u0027s a bit easy on the MPs extension so probably should be in a police work group we can discuss with yes sir yes the feedback was that if you\u0027re going with the matter one which requires the IANA a location for a special purpose label and that is in the MPLS working group solo I mentioned that this can go to MPLS or in so do you want to figure out which option you want to peak before or otherwise it might be food probably going to be any less fucking good yeah so I think we would prefer the matter one but if working group has any feedback then we can look at the option towards which when come on Jeff I believe it\u0027s covered for by some IP I\u0027ll contact Erickson to review this but we have discussion before at the same button it will cover exactly this case secretion all that there is some lawyers do this okay thanks and I cry Snow White\u0027s we need this work because I think IOM cost a lot and if you want to do IOM in amperes and postcard based eternity would be better muster okay yeah we can talk our plane okay with them thank you [Music] "
  }
]