[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:35",
    "text": "okay guys we are going to start so this is IP wave session let\u0027s start with the initial initial slides one thing that you have may notice Russ is not here at this time so I will be chairing this session alone so the usual stuff on IPR policies and not well you should be aware of this no please take a while reading the slides then before we actually start while the blue seats are circulating so please sign those blue sheets we have ready if done no takers so thanks for volunteering and we are missing someone helping with the jabber is anyone that can do some JavaScript okay thanks so we are all set so this is the agenda as you saw we have only one hour this time the reason for that is that we want to really focus on to work items to be really progress and to be done hopefully by next ITF so that\u0027s the main reason that we only ask for one hour this this meaning the I will start with some administrative updates and then we will have two presentations one for the ipv6 over CB draft Alex will be present in that and one for the use cases survey and prana statement as I will later describe there is only one graph we have merged the two ones that we had in one single document and Chris will be present in this so working group esta toes update so we have these two documents in working group a state we have the transmission over IP C of ypc packets over OCB we will have a presentation from Alex on the version 11 so we had a lot of revisions of the document wish working good last call we got some comments and we believe that we really needed was a new updated aversion and we will follow up with a short bulking move last call just to be sure that all people that provided comments the comments were properly address so we want to keep it short and hopefully submit the documents to IG in one month or less after the IDF so that\u0027s the goal then we have the other one as I mentioned we have the survey document and the promise team and document that originally were two different traps but we believe that there was some overlap that made easier to focus on one and single document so we requested their authors to to merge and they nicely accepted and provided a-- and did the exercise to to combine in one single document that we will be presented today the idea with this document is to really focus all the energy of the group in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:36",
    "text": "next few cycles to to make sure that we probably in London we we are able to work in last column that document this is the basically the picture of where we are we have we are a bit delayed on with a couple of milestones but we believe that on the apt six of our CV we will be we should be done by December and on the other one were basically made 2018 was the day goal for the second documents you who emerged I think that we should be able to achieve that milestone by May with the merge document as well so as I this is basically what I mentioned before next steps to to be done with the first document on and to get reviews for the second one the one that has been merged in order to to make progress on and to be done by X idea I just realized that I forgot that beginning to do some agenda version so I don\u0027t know if there is any any comment on the agenda that I presented here okay so well basically that\u0027s it from the update so we can proceed with Alex presentation Alex hello my name is Alexandra Petrescu and I will present the advancement of the draft transmission of ipv6 packets over 802 dot 11 networks operating in mode outside the context of a busy service set the version of the draft is 11 I am the speaker my co-authors are Nibbana marjoram hurry Christy with Emma J H Ernst and a few others we are in Singapore the contents of the presentation I will introduce briefly the changes then I will spend more time on the changes themselves and these I\u0027m trying here to highlight the unresolved issues so these are the two unresolved issues right now are we going to request or not request a group ID from Ayane and is neighbor discovery adapted for OCB or is not adapted for OCB these are the two issues that are still under discussion and if there are any comments on these "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:36",
    "text": "two issues maybe you can make them now or because later I\u0027ll go to the changes not any other thing shrinking the value Cisco so Alex I thought at least for the the group ID we are at good amount of discussions so in my mind I thought there was a clear consensus you know at least we were not able to explain why it was needed right so that is one point this I don\u0027t hear you excuse me I don\u0027t hear you well so yeah the discussion is closed you mean with yes yes it was it\u0027s not needed yes there is not enough justification as as how why it\u0027s needed I agree there is no enough justification at this time to request requires group ID from I am so yeah okay so no second part right he is indeed a bi I don\u0027t I\u0027m not understanding what that sentence is but right now we are making assumption that this draft assumes that the indie indie will be taking care of in some other document right so with that anything around and D will be remote or whatever right so is that so I\u0027m not seeing what they shoes yeah that\u0027s the only open this guy so both of them could be considered close I think yep okay so now for your information we will go through the changes to our version of the document this is the overview of the changes since September and further during the last call the draft was reviewed in detail by seven reviewers Jose Santa Lozano\u0027s three gunda Valley Sandra\u0027s pedals from sistema Abdul Salam barrio Margaret : and Michelle better Walt so the these reviewers provided detailed comments we analyzed them and we solve them and I\u0027m going to show the changes all this has already been reported in the drafts and the all these changes are listed in the changelog section of the draft but this changelog section will disappear once in the later phases okay so this is maybe the last chance you see this changelog section so my goal in presenting these changes is to for you to see them and I would like to get confirmation from especially from the reviewers that their comments have been addressed correctly so these changes are grouped in different categories first are the technical changes which are the most important ones ok we will show the technical changes one by one and that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:37",
    "text": "where I will spend most of the time then there are some changes in authorship many changes in the references what are the documents that have been referenced some terminology changes and some sections that have been moved out or put in the appendix and a few changes about security this is the overview of the of the changes so I propose now that we go on the first topic which is the technical changes and they are all grouped into one slide that you see here and I will go in detail one by one on each of these topics and I hope each of these resolution addresses correctly the comments from the reviewers many reviewers have already expressed satisfaction with this but like if any opposition - so we had a comment on the link local addresses so I clarified that by adding text that suggests that the use of link local addresses is easier on the buildings rather than globally unique addresses that need to receive a prefix link local addresses are easier because the we know very easy how to form them the prefix is universal and there is no need of a router that sends the prefix okay so we are the brief text that suggested that it\u0027s easier to use link local addresses than global addresses on the same link then earlier the draft has they had the speculation on the adoption of TSA messages TSA is a 2.11 message stands for timestamp advertisement and yeah in the draft we were saying that if these TSA message is going to be implemented then it\u0027s going to be a good indicator for handover but we moved all the handover discussion out and also we prefer to refrain from any speculation on adoption or not adoption of TSA because it is a link layer message okay we don\u0027t we don\u0027t know what what the link layer message implemented implementers we\u0027d implement or not so we remove that phrase we had also briefed rules that said that the neighbor discovery protocol is used we add it but it\u0027s in the appendix section if you search for our neighbor discovery protocol it\u0027s somewhere deep in the appendix and we said that we are it\u0027s going to be used and also some brief phrase about how to station\u0027s discover each other but it is really one or two lines is no messages or no protocol that defines it in in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:43",
    "text": "subnet structure section we added brief phrase that says that the external network is the wireless network between cars is relatively ephemeral and has these problems of subnet structural of OSI be at the same time the internal network the in-car network is relatively stable because very often inside the car there is Ethernet many kinds of Ethernet time schedule Ethernet advanced feature Ethernet and but that\u0027s more stable inside the car the problems of subnet structure may be happening outside the car between cars that\u0027s all CB we added a phrase also that explains that both dot eleven data and dot eleven QoS data headers are currently being used on OCB mode and also in the future they may be used it\u0027s two different kinds of 802 dot 11 headers okay it\u0027s data and QoS data a very important point that resulted in our destruction in our discussion is the removal of the per channel ipv6 prohibition text after now we had the a statement specifying clearly that ipv6 is forbidden on some particular Channel but there was argument and counter-argument between different parties about which of these channels are allowed to do ipv6 or no and which are dedicated to safety and whether or not I P v6 is safety or not safety and whether in general IP could be used as a safety capacity or no so in the end we decided with advice from specialists from these other organizations to just get rid of the this prohibition text because it really does not exist so we removed the per channel ipv6 prohibition text also another removal is we had earlier a statement that suggested that for routing purposes a prefix exchange mechanism could be needed between cars and we removed that text because it sounded too much like a requirement and this draft does not implement that requirement we remove the text that suggests that for routing purposes a prefix exchange mechanism should be needed this does not mean that in the future we we will not will not look at prefix exchanges mechanism because they are important at least for ISO we remove "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:43",
    "text": "the text requesting a new group ID for multicast for OCB this is clear we added a clarification what means 3 3 3 3 in the section address mapping multicasts we added a note that states that the manner in which two stations set the communication channel is not described in this document in summary in the appendix we added a time qualifier to state that each node is represented uniquely by to each node is represented uniquely at a certain point in time this is somewhere in the in the appendix about identifying knowledge and so and we shortened the paragraph on forming and terminating the 802 dot 11 OC Billings so basically these are the technical changes and now it is time to still discuss on these technical changes whether you are happy or not happy in the way they have been addressed I believe most of reviewers are happy with this way and yeah so sri again so Alex I thought on the cue list of I thought at least the input was not to touch on that right not to yeah not to not include any explanation on that unless you have sufficient that as you know how Q s is going to see you need we don\u0027t have a link model we don\u0027t have you know we haven\u0027t discussed that in this document right in the absence of that I don\u0027t know how the wmm caused works and all of that so at least my recommendation was not to touch on the the Q s stuff that was at least that\u0027s what I remember saying that is silly I don\u0027t remember having discussed Q s with you I took all your comments into account and there was no comment about us there was lots about submit structure yes nothing about Q s but the Q s data headers are used in some diploma in some deployments okay I can send you a packet captures from my ps4 G dotnet and this reflects what some deploy trial deployments use so is it so when we say Q s here right we are not talking about any of the WM m AC or any of that what is the what exactly is the scope is it just saying are we just saying that on the driver we love puffers our water and we are maintaining three cues is that is that at that level or what what does QSR mean it was this means that he won\u0027t walk us theta headers okay if you look at the dot eleven headers there are normal dot 11 headers and dot 11 us data headers okay two different kinds of headers in 802 11 and at this time some people use just dot 11 data "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:46",
    "text": "headers others use dot 11 QoS data headers okay so this is what is in some trials so just to complement my understanding that this refers just to the encapsulation from 11.11 of the ipv6 packets not to any US actual implementation of the data plane right yes nothing we don\u0027t say anything about traffic class or flow label which are IP headers or divs or no we don\u0027t know that just the dot 11 day traders okay we don\u0027t modify them okay so on the technical comments as I mentioned before we plan to do a very I mean one week short working group last call after right here just to be sure that all these changes people that probably comments are happy with that so please once issue the working group last call just say okay I\u0027m fine with the changes or something that requires to be to be done okay so now I\u0027ll go to more the other comments which are more for example the changes of authorship we have updated the affiliation of one author and we updated the authorship on the first page and the contributor section the goal here was to have only five authors on the first page and have the contributors listed in a separate section at the end of the draft and also we also have an acknowledgment section this is to follow guidelines in a specific RFC that points to got two good recommendations about how many authors or editors and authors and so on yeah so that was about authorship references there were many many comments about references I will go through them one by one we added the informational reference to it sees ipv6 over do networking document added more references to ITF and let\u0027s see security protocols updated some references that evolved from ID to RFC because when we started these drafts many months or years ago even since then some of the internet graphs that were recited evolved and became RFC\u0027s so now we refer to these RFC\u0027s instead of their internet draft form also some old RFC\u0027s became new RFC it\u0027s the case most "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:46",
    "text": "notably with our base ipv6 document which is RFC 2460 became recently RFC 8282 0/0 so starting now anybody talking about ipv6 should be talking about RFC 8200 we added also a reference to multicast extensions to IPSec architecture RFC this was a suggestion from three added a reference to a info into a personal submission of 2464 B\u0027s ARIMA I remind RFC 24 64 is ipv6 over Ethernet and it\u0027s a very old RFC and there is a personal proposal to an interim internet draft called RFC 24 64 bits we removed all informative references to FCC documents because they were not cited anymore we updated the reference of a 2.11 OCB document from - 2012 this is the year member to the I Triple E 802 dot 11 2016 which is really the most recent reference of 802 dot 11 that cites the OCB in the L in the link local address section and the slack section added text and references to opak interface identifiers and to stable AI interface IDs these are also new RFC\u0027s that came out in the recent months removed all the references to RFC 3920 9rs these are mobile IP and name references neighbor discovery they were referred in the handover discussion section because earlier we had the handover discussion section and we decided to move out this handover discussion so these documents are no longer cited here and it\u0027s not good to cite to refer to documents that are not cited finally we updated a reference from an individual submission that is now a working group item there are survey documents that has joined with a problem statement document so we now refer to this document which is a new working group document moved the draft ite to 2.11 to informative references which is a working group item but it\u0027s not an RFC so it is an informative references so these these are all the changes about the references that we believe at this time with these references in the draft we are up to date with everything with all the new RFC\u0027s with all the new I Triple E documents with all the new "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:46",
    "text": "Internet drafts and it\u0027s very complete the terminology this was again some new modifications here we added a new OBU term which is actually OB r u4 onboard router unit improved the roadside unit and definition removed the ATTC term stands for expected time i forgot exactly what it was but it was not really level irrelevant for IP it was for money mainly for drink layer we replaced all occurrences of 802 dot 11 p and nato to cater to the space OCB with a tour 2.11 - OCB so starting now we only talk about it or 2.11 - OC be no more 802 dot 11 p we define that there are Wi-Fi now since we removed this country level text from somewhere else we added that any implementation should comply with standards and regulation set in the different countries for using that frequency band we added it in the turn definition worried if I sit at 11 OC be in the RSU term definition other the sentence that explains the difference between RSU and RS are you in terms of number of interfaces and in terms of IP forwarding replaced with at least two IP interfaces with with at least two real or virtual IP interfaces and added a term in the terminology for OBU since we removed it earlier but this OBU definition here is left empty since we had several remarks that say that OBU is defined elsewhere not at IDF so right now we have this OPR you defined that ITF and OBU that is defined elsewhere in other organizations we added a clarification that it is an OP you or an OB are you in this phrase a vehicle in barracks and of you or on OB are you we checked the entire document for a consistent use of terms of BU and OB are you clarified what it means no association needed added a note other than note that verifies that in Europe the original T is not yet C but ECCC EPT based on European norms from its other note says that B is a letter "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:49",
    "text": "that identifies the admin ontology we moved many sections out of the main part of the document basically either we put them out of the document altogether or we put them in the appendix section this was following many suggestion that says that draft should be really short and the meet that\u0027s the main part of the document is really a few pages long 12 or 13 pages how we achieve that is by moved we had a packet capture example and we moved it in appendix in cold implementation status we added a yin-er consideration section but we removed all requests of OCB interfaces okay we move the EPD description to an appendix on its own EP d stands for ethyl ether type packet this sector and it describes how I Triple E believes the distinction of ethyl type should be happening it\u0027s still and it\u0027s a good view but it is an I Triple E view it\u0027s not the IP view so we moved it in a separate section the tutorial section on OSI b-mode what all CB introduces to dot 11 has been also moved to an appendix and references to two RFC 3986 section movement changes that have been performed and that allows us to have a really small main part which is only 12 or 13 pages long and of course whenever we prepare a draft - for submission ysg we want it to be very well readable and we want it to be an invitation for iesg to read and - to agree with it and this is why we did many changes for readability as many as we could for example we cleaned the abstract we reformulate many phrases for better readability many many typos graphical errors several times through the document with spell checkers and with human spell checkers I take this opportunity to say that we we also worked on this draft in a cooperative way we put the draft in on a github repository which allowed us the authors to find and modify concurrently typographical errors and now I also heard that there is some mechanism to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:50",
    "text": "submit directly from github to the ITF which we never tried but it\u0027s a good it\u0027s a good news for for us to submit directly from github and we shortened significantly their address mapping sections by removing the text copied from RFC 2464 and rather referring to it we added figure captures figure numbers references and replaced whenever it said section section with just section and shortened a few paragraphs substitute a lowercase for capital shower or Mastan yep and this is because it was that the appendices should not contain capital should and capital must and that so we put all the should and must that are in the appendices we put them in Flour case finally we had few changes about security we had to add the risks of spoofing and hijacking a small text that was suggested during the by the reviewers this is the last light of the changes and I think we addressed all the comments from all the reviewers I wanted to thank the designated reviewers and the voluntary reviewers about seven public reviews many more or some other also in private and yeah we addressed all the comments in this with these changes this question - eleven is like 802 dot eleven okay thank you so as any any comments or question sorry I\u0027m Charlie Perkins I just have a very small question it\u0027s about not defining things like OBU that\u0027s very surprising to me I mean you can make a definition and then a citation for the you might say authoritative definition but really that if you want to make the document readable you should allow people to know what the words mean without going there somewhere else to figure it out yes so W is a term that is defined outside the idea and that definition is not consistent with what we see as OBU providing a definition means that you are assuming the normative ownership of that definition you\u0027re just defining the term and if you make a citation to some extra document then it\u0027s clear where the definition authority really is but default definition of a view is different than the definition of a view by other organization people are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:51",
    "text": "confused this is why they insist these other people he said not to use the demo but then you have to balance how much can you confuse them by providing the best definition you can versus they have no clue it\u0027s hard to persuade somebody whether or not he or she has no clue so okay well then I\u0027ll just speak for myself yes I have a hard time you know with reading things like that yeah it\u0027s also my case sometimes so but what would you suggest no I would suggest making a definition that just says what it means and then making a citation for that the standards body it created the term it\u0027s something that is doable but then it shall have to be defended [Music] yeah I agree but if I could I could add the definition of OBU if for example you suggested that definition I mean that name the work group is IP wave and ITF does not own wave okay but one clarification question you didn\u0027t define I\u0027ll be you because you are using the AVI you are you right now we define OB are you yes and you are not using I\u0027ll be you in the draft we say we say W in the definition section that is OB you : obvious defined elsewhere and some are in the text we say that for example a car could embark an OB are you or an OB you okay so in in that case I agree with Charlie that we we need to at least reference whatever you is at least and then we can clarify that we are referring to the other uru term because it is and this is something clearly specify them defining the document Eric Cline I have a sort of a random obscure technical question purely because of my I Triple E ignorance it\u0027s about appendix F 4 where it talks about Mac adjusts generation it says you can basically generate them by generating 48 bits of total randomness and then setting locally administered in unicast is that actually true my understanding of I Triple E o UI allocations was that even when you got a 24 bit o UI or at 36 bit o UI you still had control of your so that nominal control of your space even with the independent of the of the globally locally assigned bit is that not true so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:54",
    "text": "yeah if you are asking me programmatically speaking anybody could generate a MAC address on the computer now whether I Triple E suggests it or accepts it or not I do not know it seems to be recommended in f4 therefore I\u0027m not sure this is actually like a legal thing to do I don\u0027t I\u0027d like to see a citation for right I actually document says whether or not this is really a cool thing or if somebody knows do you know from what I remember I thought that text was around generating the identifier the 64-bit I 95 is based on the MAC address I didn\u0027t remember that is 36 remaining that\u0027s the random I think I don\u0027t know why that should be there yeah so I think it is this something that you think would be clarified by removing the thermal mark and putting ID instead of Mac i generating an IP address is a separate thing right that\u0027s address formation there other ipv6 standards to that like in six-man this this is this scene section seems to be about MAC address formation and I\u0027m not entirely sure it it complies with what I should believe wants to do with their identifier space obviously anybody can do anything you can send any packet you want it\u0027s just software but we shouldn\u0027t recommend against something that\u0027s in there identifier space I don\u0027t know what it is at which as which is why I\u0027m asking I think that it\u0027s worth checking with you guys as far as I remember you can only change if you change the bit for the global local thing otherwise you cannot change but this my my last what I know from the last check last time I check and I know that they have a group working on a specifically that kind of changes for privacy so I don\u0027t know if they change or recommended a different way because of that that work but before you could only change if you change that bit I mean it is local you can change otherwise is yeah if you\u0027re gonna randomly generate you do have to set the local bit but what I don\u0027t know is whether or not you have you can override all the other 46 bits or if you have to respect some o UI boundaries I think you could change the 46 that was my understanding [Music] okay yep suresh krisshnan I think it\u0027s worth checking but like I kind of think like same as Carlos but Jody\u0027s here so I can talk to Joey and yeah but I can probably like talk to somebody like this like a bunch of people here like maybe Bob is here somewhere so I\u0027ll take the night up for myself to actually check this to make sure it complies "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:58",
    "text": "hello miss avatar well I don\u0027t want to reopen the discussion but that can you remind us why the multicast specific addressed has been dropped I thought it was a very good idea to identify the vehicle network in case of multicast and broadcast the group ID for the OSI B right yeah yeah at least I mean my my understanding from the discussion is that we the group agree that is not required this we didn\u0027t identify or agree on having a reason for that also there was an argument that having a group for unity find a space alien air specific technologies was not a nice thing to do and what I suggested that we leave that out for this document and if there is any additional discussion that proves that does require we can have a different document addressing that point but at least now my read is no consensus on this and there are some concerns about our having that group ID okay so it is not a final decision CAD miryo point yeah it\u0027s a final decision for this document but is it\u0027s I mean if there are prove that is it require a Constitution they were in the group we can discuss in a different document yes okay that\u0027s fine thank you and otherwise Michele all your all your other comments are okay now yes okay thanks Alex I have one one question - today - sure - on the procedure I mean as I mentioned I will issue a short working group last call for the document but then in our Charter we have that the document will be reviewed by six months so how do you want to do that after that working blast call subscription so I I think I can do like a peril wouldn\u0027t last call in six month if that\u0027s required and but before that happens I really want your comments like to be addressed and before the document goes forward and because I had like very very similar comments right like and this does not read like a standard like the way it\u0027s written today right like it like that\u0027s my field so I like Carlos probably has the same Lea as me right so it\u0027s so if the goal of this is to say like okay this is how we map 802 11 OCB to Ethernet and then use 24 64 to do the rest that\u0027s fine right like but I didn\u0027t think that\u0027s what we were starting off to do and but that\u0027s perfectly fine like I\u0027m not gonna like you know like dispute the working group doing that right but that\u0027s probably like something in the tone of the document that\u0027s needs some change so I\u0027m not talking about the content itself but like how the document is written probably needs some minor modifications before it like gets out of the working group so just take a look at Carlos\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "mail and then we can take the document forward I don\u0027t see any technical issues with the document itself right like it\u0027s most of those things have been proven already in the field I\u0027d like V we all know like you know how we are mapping Wi-Fi into like Ethernet emulation and everything so like a lot of these things have been proven so I don\u0027t have a concern about the content of the document itself it\u0027s just probably like some wording changes here and there that needs to happen okay thanks okay thank you so then we can move to the [Music] okay I\u0027m gonna start mmm hello everyone this is even shin or you can call me Chris from sending one University South Korea the this draft is closer draft with Jae Hong jeong-ho Navia Sandra Jeremy top boom pay or Charlie Alex and even Misha Turner just one interruption since we we are a bit late with the general you have only 15 minutes okay okay so since last meeting so we have updated out draft we merged out previous two draft into one of previous to dub the networking so me and problem statement now we have IP way week Euler networking so this draft so we also updated several text issues and clarify some terminologies and some terms and also we are surveyed the more papers research papers related to routing and the mobility management for teacher that the first one is the for the routing section actually we added a new location new research paper to analyze the routing issue and also we moved our paper from routing section to the mobility management section based on reviewing and also we augmented the gap analysis and a problem statement in this subsection so we also had a lot of other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:01",
    "text": "commands and modification about the draft so I just since the overall content sauce same as kind of almost same so I just briefly introduced through the draft so the purpose the objective of this draft is to survey the the ip-based of equal or networks and also specified a problem so we have and we have along this draft we have several assumptions so here I need to emphasize is that so we not we focused on not only the 11 P or DSRC a physical link we also focused on cellular links and also other we can say that visible light communication so so this is the IP layer that you can be applied to any other physical communication link so and we also have some roadside unit as we discussed in previous presentation so and also we consider a traffic control center which is can the can manager the vql network so this is the current sections so we have we merged the two traffic together so we have several topics architecture standardization or the auto configuration IP address auto-configuration routing mobility yes naming and service discovery and security and privacy so we are for first we have a use cases we have we have several use cases in this draft we surveyed navigation systems intersection management emergency network system pedestrian protection system we also have we to be use cases which are driving safety system automated driving system and the b2b watering system so as you can see in this picture its figure so we we may have so we have a b2i communication and a v2v communication so we have a several issues here so how do we assign IP address to each vehicle and also how do we manage the mobility since the vehicle network has its features like first move morbidity and also are we also have a service discovery so we imagine that in the future in the vehicle each vehicle it\u0027s a moving network so there there could be multiple hosts in a vehicle so how do we deal with the service discovery as you can see here as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "I just described inside the vehicle there could be a movie network and also this it\u0027ll be to be two vehicles cases so yeah so most part of this contains our same as previous one so we have a high P basic addressing issue so how do we deal with ipv6 address and also so this that is for v2 and this is for v2 v also here we have the neighbor discovery issue so since the vehicles mobility is high and dynamic dynamically change and we need to deal with how do we kind of find neighbor service and how to find the neighbor router yeah this is our next topic its IP address auto-configuration and another issue is that the s name in service for actually we actually we thought if we imagine that in each vehicle there could be several in each vehicle is a moving network so in in the week we could have DNS server or in ICU as you can be also move fix network in RC we also can have the DNS server so how do we deal with this year\u0027s issue and also another important issue is IP mobility support so we so far we for the ipv6 we we have the mobile ipv6 and the proxy mobile ipv6 on write them into two categories so one is centralized another one is the distributed the way so therefore this vehicle environments how do we we can like come up some new or some new mobility management issue or do you have the question yeah just comment right I think okay see the problem you know I I raised this issue as part of the other document review like we don\u0027t have a clear explanation on the link model okay you know once you know we don\u0027t even know what is the host ID prefix we don\u0027t even know what is it what exactly is a link because nodes are always moving right how the link is formed and is there a concept of a router who is hosting that prefix any of that discussion is not there now in the absence of that I think that is the main issue if you lay out certain assumptions saying that this is where these are my assumptions then you can build all of this problem list now without that all of this problem lists are like I don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:04",
    "text": "know how to review it so I think though I think that is the fundamental issue have like you know the DNS many other things are not being sense to me okay so yeah we will discuss three I have a question if we if we add something about this MD problem about who is the router who hosts the prefix about this kind of subnet structure problem inside this would this make sense at least I have there will be some basis right at least I can assume things identify the issues in that context right now without laying out those assumptions I don\u0027t know I think I think that the document should identify those issues because this is supposed to be a promise statement in addition to a survey so and this links also to the discussion that we may have in the future about what to do next in the group so what to do next in the group\u0027s we should be identify in this document because is supposed to be the prana statement so Eric coin I think also if you\u0027re gonna continue to have the problem statement talk about neighbor discovery stuff you should maybe rent it by six men because among other things there are some things that are not in here like use of optimistic addresses is not discussed and that makes some things much faster than deeds like the HPV 6 right so there there\u0027s a lot more to consider than is actually present here in the document yeah we look into it so ok so in love five minutes ok the neck topic is the service discovery so we know I mean we can you use NPS for the service discovery and the wall so we can use that ts based services recovery and also we can use the neighbor discovery extension for the service discovery also we noticed that in a DNS st working group they are working on extension of service discovery based on MDS so then we will look at look into that their work and to see if you can get something and ok so this is the kind of example for the service discovery so imagine that we have in you know vehicle there could be many animal components NJ and cruise control so how do we so for vehicle to vehicle how do we discover those service so to provide better service to the in the application there and also we compared MDS and the service recovery and we cure in the neighbor discovery process numerically next issue "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:08",
    "text": "is security and privacy so we have talked about this we utilize the authentication and access control and also we consider privacy support for peer a change of Mack and IP address yeah so this topic was discussed a lot in last meeting and okay also how do we secure those confidential data when we co exchange because our v2i exchange the packet so then they summarized the whole document so we can conclude that we can utilize the IP wave or DSS he has I PP 6 in the weaker Network and also we we should adopt some new service discovery mechanism like we can you utilize the ipv6 neighbor discovery to do the service discovery and also we we want to a kind of the need to support that ipv6 link concept another issue is how do we deal with the IP address auto-configuration eventually so we have a routing and the mobility management actually this is a very important issue for in current problem statement so next step so since the Alex chaffed changes a lot so we need to synchronize with ipv6 ipv6 over 111 OCP so we can like for example ICU so in this document we just use I see you as OCP yeah those terms kind of different so we need to synchronize and also we in next step we also need to enhance different in from the different aspects from industria automobile companies and the car to car communication consortium and 30 aught emotive association and all those yeah also we we were enhanced the terminology section so based on can to review some authors are reversed kind of have questioned about different terminologies different terms so they kind of get confused so we we also need to enhance that part and also based on in the emails in the email list we also need to include the physical communication constraints and I think the Erik\u0027s has some comment about this and also with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:08",
    "text": "our plan is in the next item met meeting so we will have the call thank you okay thank you so they\u0027d be used to try to get reviews for this document and keep in mind that we need to for for future work that we can take in the group that should be reflected in the program statement so and once we are done with the ipv6 over CV document we want to open discussion for potential researchers in topics but those topics should have been addressed in this document so please those that want to bring new think in the working group say can review this document and ensure that those topics are reflected here that\u0027s it that\u0027s all for today thanks a lot for coming and what are they blue see what is what is it thank you [Music] "
  }
]