[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "[Music] phenomenal introduction justin thank you yes the clock has just ticked over uh but i don't think we have a hugely packed agenda so i'm not gonna quite be in a hurry to start i think we've neck is only showing about 70 people we might get a few more trickling in from the gather town hallway i think the suggestion of uh working group theme songs might be something we have to talk about in the future maybe at the open mic i just saw in the chat yeah so think i have to talk about that so thank you deb cooley for helping us with the notes if she could have backup we'd greatly appreciate it we do have the the note sites there in the really looking for just catching the major action items we don't need the blow-by-blow we do have the the video and we still don't have a volunteer if someone can help us with jabber ben and i are both kind of watching it but you know a third set of eyes is always really great jonathan is happy to watch the chapter be good perfect thank you jonathan and michael richardson as well so we've got a good crew all right so we've we're up to 86 people now i'm showing so might as well go ahead and get started so i'm ben caduck um and my co-id is also sending everything so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "yeah yourself yeah so hi i'm romeo yeah here are the security ids so this is the security area advisory group the open meeting and let us get started so of course this is the itf meeting and we're under the note well uh it's already thursday so hopefully this is not new to anyone but we have a number of authoritative bcps that lay out the sort of ipr regime for which that applies to the itf meetings idea contributions so please note them well uh next slide also we want to remind everybody about you know the the itf guidelines for conduct that we want to aspire to um so if we can always make sure to be respectful and courteous to other participants and to remember that you know the the background and the assumptions that we bring to the table are not going to be universal like different people are coming in with different uh environments that they run in and different needs for their technical situations and so we want to acknowledge that there are going to be different assumptions and perspectives coming in and we want to try and understand those and work to the best solution overall all right uh next slide so again this is the thursday session uh which is supplementing what we had on tuesday so down the bottom of the slide we're going to have the usual mistrivia agenda bashing and then working reports the ed reports and a talk from the tls chairs so would anyone like to bash the agenda"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "uh please join the queue or just start sending the audio just a reminder from our sec dispatch chairs on the on the big itf agenda we had two split sessions one on tuesday that we ran us as a split today on thursday we are on the official agenda is also running a split session with sec dispatch but there is going to be no sec dispatch portion today yeah we did not have enough content to need the second half for sec dispatch uh seeing nobody coming up let's keep going to the working group summaries so we've asked of course the working groups to send a summary to the mailing list which helps us use time well for this session so we've tried to get links into the slides when they exist to mail archive so ace is all set let's keep going acme i think just met earlier this morning cozy did meet uh hopefully we can get a report from them or or just to mention uh the mic uh today as we keep going uh gene app i think met earlier today as well i beseck me was good shape lamps matt oh hi is still welcome to come to the mic to give a report as well open pgp we heard good progress from the design team routes have one session and there's another session uh tomorrow second i think just met or just sent it in today dispatch we had a good outcome uh suit is good chaos we had a good session we'll be hearing from the chairs again as well and then tomorrow we've got a few groups meeting so richard go ahead and jump in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:09",
    "text": "[Music] i was going to provide a quick summary on ohio we um spent most of the time reviewing the proposed starting point drafts and i think we've uh we did an adoption call at the end of the meeting which was pretty favorable um confirming that adoption call on the list right now documents i got a little bit of a compressed audio stream there but it sounded like we had a good meeting with some adoption calls coming out so thanks for that it'll be exciting to to see the progress going on there uh so i think we can go to the next slide uh yeah actually just barely slip over onto two slides of groups not reading um but if you go back to the first one i tried to remember a few notes on that so curdle is probably going to close once the last document gets through the rfc editor it's in the queue there um and i think many of these groups are holding interims uh whether dedicated or periodic regular interims uh so it's not like they're they're not doing any work at all and then back to slide two the second event group is uh probably also going to be closing scene there was we finished the chord drafts uh some time ago and then there was energy to work on one more related draft and we should either finish that up or just to declare victory and close so i will be trying to talk to the chairs and working group about that in the coming weeks uh sean go ahead yeah hi as ben noted we had an in room"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "for mls i did just like seconds ago send an update um to the mailing list so people can see it um the the nutshell here is that we're about done with the protocol draft the next version is going to probably enter working group last call sometime in december and then hopefully we'll get enough reviews on the architecture draft so we can work into a blast call that and so then we can send both to the isg you know hopefully in the first quarter of 2022 great yeah it'll be definitely good to have both drafts to look at together okay i think we should keep going so let's see related work i didn't want to call out uta because there are i believe is documents for both 61 25 and 75 25 which relate to your recommendations for certificate verification and also just general tls usage parameter guidelines so this would be very much of interest to a large part of the community and thank you to the utah chairs for for sending that note to the list as well um there also has been some noteworthy activity going on in the model t program from the iab and i believe yari is going to send a summary uh later today i think but it's not in quite yet so this is a opportunity if anybody knows much about some related work whether or not it's listed on this slide please feel free to uh to jump up to the mic i think sam weiler also sent just now an update from the w3c which has quite a bit of potentially interesting work going on just uh just skimming the email lisa so that as well while we have folks coming up to the mic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "to talk about uh some of the some of these activities here i want to mention we did hold the priv uh i think it was quite successful there was quite a lot of support voiced for it uh also what it was positive out of it we have some tangible action items on where the community thinks the scope should be should be tuned and all of that is fully documented in the minutes and i would expect in the coming weeks that there will be revisions to that draft charter and we should have some community discussion on whether the box and the scoping of that is right and whether we can move forward thanks ramen and i'm not seeing anybody training the queue either so i guess we can keep going and of course we'll have the open mic at the end of the meeting as well if there's more to cover uh so i guess i can say a few words about uh my two 80 sponsored drafts here the security txt is in the rc editor queue and it's actually still waiting on me we had been preparing to go forward with some very generic abnf for the file format but i got some updated abnf from murray that actually can represent the full pgp clear sign header footer and whatnot and so i need to actually go and validate that and get another review and then we should be able to to go forward with security txt uh numeric id set considerations is still a little bit stalled i didn't really make any progress on that since itf 111. yeah so for my documents uh the the updated ers asn kind of one modules are with the rfc editor i think it's all quite straightforward from there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "and then i just started processing the update to 6931 the best document to get the new uris for for all the various xml security kinds of things that's really new with in terms of being in revised kind of aed uh i i expect we can probably get that button up relatively quickly we do do still need w3c concurrence and kind of feedback on it before you know we get we get to ietf last call thanks all right uh other things to note uh from ben and my kind of perspective the first thing we just wanted to call out is earlier this week we updated the wiki that talks about the security area to refresh the content and make it hopefully a little more accessible to understand how to bring new work and for others perhaps not steeped in all the different sec area kind of processes about how sector works and how you know this this venue kind of sag works so please take a look if you think we're missing content you know by all means kind of let us know we'd like this to be you know something that is a resource and is accessible to folks uh uh other highlights and this is this is a repeat that we do really every time uh we we meet here in sag is we just like to reiterate that based on the work done by sector and the process that ben and i go through in all the ad and telechat reviews that there are recurring issues that do come up fairly commonly we do have those documented and as you know in augmentation as folks uh go are getting already published their documents or as working groups are ready to send things to itf last call we would strongly urge them to consult that list to make sure that it does not manifest itself in in that document also in the spirit of transparency you know this is not a new feature but you know it it constantly actually kind of comes up that folks don't realize that this is possible if you want to know what ben's queue looks like or my cue looks like you know where we're holding documents what the rest of the sec area kind of looks like in terms of processing after it exits the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "working group so in iesg review uh or in last call you can you can use those two urls to get that status information uh and then the other thing we wanted to highlight is one of the actions we are holding is the continued thread on what we do with post quantum agility so since that does come up and it came up in the the sag session kind of in session one we did make a summary page that you see referenced there that pulls together all the different conversations that we've had and we still have an open thread on the main list to give us more feedback on that proposed charter so we know how to to move forward yeah i think we've got one reply to that thread so far so it'd be good to get additional input yeah i mean there's a little bit of a mismatch between some of the private communication we're getting supporting it and you know any commentary on that mailing list and that's what that's what we really need uh to help us figure out how to proceed uh there's been some changes in where we stand with working groups uh i know we we often kind of talk about broadly in the itf how has coved impacted you know the creation of new work so from the sec area perspective since the last time we've met we have spun up three new security focus working groups uh we we talked about ohi in the in the in the working group reports dance is going to be meeting for the first time tomorrow and skim which is not in the security area but highly related to kind of security uh based on historical reasons is still staying in art and that reopened and met earlier this morning for the first time in terms of uh work closing so the trans working group concluded since the last time we met and in terms of major rechartering uh suit is is is now actively kind of talking about how to how to do a little bit more based on the based on the the the work that's already that's already getting ready to move outside the working group on the core manifest and now we're talking about extensions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "and you know ben and i can't reiterate enough the help that the sector provides and that should read since we last got together in ietf 11. those reviewers you know provided detailed things for itf last call they provided detailed feedback for the telechat and these these contributions these reviews directly impact the quality and the security properties of those documents and it's tremendous that it's done we thank you so much for making it all possible to us really contributing to making the internet a more secure place because you've invested your time yeah definitely a big thanks to all the sector viewers it's a real big help okay so with that uh we're ready to switch over to our first and only formal agenda item so the the tls chairs are going to talk to us about what recommended guidance uh looks like so joe are you briefing or sean we'll get your slides up yeah i can i can uh present um perfect do you want me to nope i'm granting you permissions okay let me uh figure out which one this is that must be this one all right here we are uh thanks everybody for uh joining good afternoon evening morning um so we're going to talk about 8447 bits and the inftls recommended column um many of you may be aware that uh rfc 8447 which is iana considerations for tls um defined a recommended column for most tls registries and this has been populated with either the character y or the character n the character y meaning generally this parameter is generally recommended for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "implementations to support um and n is generally a record for an implementation not to support um and this says you know probably most uh driven by uh cipher parameters you know crypto parameters such as cipher suites and groups and things like that but it applies to um other things such as uh um you know extensions and other tls parameters as well the uh in order to get something assigned and why it requires um ietf standards action um so part of the feedback we received is that maybe two values aren't enough because n could result from various different situations one could be just that we haven't evaluated it so we get many requests for uh ciphers that that we often will allow um that really may not have been out evaluated by anybody in the ietf or or in the in the uh in our in our community um and so it's hard to make any statements about them and it's not something that we could necessarily do to evaluate all these things nor maybe should we um there are also things that we would not recommend in any circumstance perhaps it's a deprecated algorithm like rc4 or md5 and then there may be cases where something is applicable only in certain cases so in the latest version of rfc 40 84 47 this we took the approach of adding an additional"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "state here so there's yes uh is recommended for general use as it was before no the parameters are discouraged for general use and then there's you know a lack of any character at all would be the parameters are unevaluated this is saying this the ietf hasn't evaluated this there's no statement to be made here by the ietf now in the tls working group on tuesday morning uh we also presented this as as part of uh the artist that changes in rfc 8447 bis um and the additional feedback that we got was that hey perhaps there should be more or different meanings here so for example to indicate when something is deprecated or something is limited use and since these things are are this kind of arrangement is probably of interest to the security committee at hall we wanted to bring it here and have some discussion and sag on what uh what would be good values what what should be be communicating here because it's something that maybe other working groups would pick up um and so that's where we are so if you'd like to come to the mic and and chat that would be wonderful i don't know sean do you have anything to add no i believe you sufficiently captured all of the points hecker yeah ah okay yeah so i i think this is like slightly more complicated than perhaps it needs to be um but um uh um like in particular i think we could put together um n and d into one thing but i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "also don't really care very much um um you know um i think i think i think it'd be fine i think i guess what i would say is it seems like some of these are gonna require some sort of like explanation um like particular especially like the n um and so like a major i mean as you may know me if you're gonna have an explanation but you can fold it and i mean n and d together and i guess i don't understand everything l and an l but again i don't also hear that much um um i guess one thing i would say is that um i don't think we should rename i don't i don't think that i don't think n should be used in the one thing i do feel strongly about is that um is that we should not use n with a meaning you have it here and the reason is because it already has an existing meaning which is the thing you have with with blank space now and so um it's like i i don't care if we rename it in the field and then we can rename them or whatever but like just don't keep the thing called recommended and have end mean something and now means like it didn't used to be it's like my my thesis um but yeah so i'm like why not i'm going to hold on basically anything because like i just think like it's like not that big a deal which ones we do so like let's just get it done okay fair enough stephen yeah i i i think the current state of play is where it is better uh i don't think any any of these changes are improvements uh in particular the one on screen here what what does evaluated by the ietf mean i mean and people will argue that and they'll come along and say you know i i you said deprecated are limited and what how did you evaluate my thing and we're going to argue about all the possible things so i think two values is the right answer i don't care if it's called n or any other set of characters but anything beyond that is going to waste lots more time for people above the itf and i don't personally believe that there's any additional clarity by having n blank d or l or or any anything"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "more than one negative value is is useless in my opinion alrighty harness hi um and very early in the slide deck you talked about um or you had uh different rules for uh behaving and and you talked about like people have different perspectives um work on the internet but then there are all sorts of deployment circumstances and and one thing uh that i noticed is there's of course the web is quite important um to everyone um but dls is used outside the web space and and there often um kind of a ignorance um to those other uses be outside the web and that's that's why it gets tricky because some of the extensions we work on are used in those spaces and they they are used on on millions and billions of devices but they are just not the web uh and so people treat them as um not fit for general use because uh for them the channel uses the web only right they don't care about these other users and that's that's the that's why we have dedicated documents that talk about the applicability of dls in other domains and for whatever reason we try to sum all of this up in a in an entry in a table in the iron registry if nobody would look at that it wouldn't be a problem but but of course people don't read the documents they just look at the table that's my problem now honestly one question would would it help if we i don't believe we link to documents just like if we were to have something that was limited or deprecated"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "um with that help with having a link to uh the document that described why or or made that statement for example for the limited use like having a document that describes what the use is would obviously be valuable for someone who looks at that table but of course like at what point do we actually replicate uh the documents themselves right so yeah okay robin uh robin are you i'm showing phil next in the queue all right dropped off as far as i can tell maybe he took himself off yeah um i i'm also a to uh two stater um i think that basically we should we should not distinguish between stuff we don't recommend and stuff we haven't evaluated we should just have a list of the stuff that we have looked at and recommend and the only thing that will do for anything else is give it a code point and the reason for that is i specifically don't want to get into the business of itf uh evaluating crypto i'm i'm not sure who i mean the only mechanism that we know of to evaluate a crypto algorithm is a crypto competition that takes four or five years"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "and that's just what that's our mechanism whether it's this that runs it or cfrg and somebody at itf looking through a bunch of papers and not seeing something bad that's not a crypto algorithmless view so i just don't want to get anywhere close to that so i i want to have a small a number of recommended algorithms as possible preferably no more than two the one that we use and the one and the backup and everything else i i'd even like to see a separate table put the code points in a separate table and anybody who wants to first come first served if we start to run out of code points um find a hack that allows people to use annoyed in its place that would require the negotiation scheme to be extended of course but i i i don't want to get into telling people that their crypto is good because nobody has that expertise okay john i i um i agree we're very much with what thomas said about different use cases i think it's important to differentiate between these i don't know i just read read the beast document i i see nowhere here that it says general use or that the recommended column has anything to would use it seems to still be support is that something new that has been added recently or no that's that's just a mistake on my"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "part yeah i think that that maybe illustrates the hardness of understanding is recommended call on if the shares cannot done it either yeah i rest my case so yo i'm gonna jump in ahead of you just to do jabber management here uh robin's comment because there was no audio is for any value other than why yes implementers will want or need to know why in which case they should read the rfc so an extra one-byte value in the fields doesn't add anything okay yola i pretty much want to agree with that so one of the things that 8447 did that i think is wrong is that they made the same column for all the ayanna registries for tls so this yes no or unknown is very fitting for the cypher suites because we can say that yeah asgcm is yes rc4 is no this new cipher coming out of the ukrainian government i don't know so that makes sense but extensions when are you ever going to do a no extension and we'll just not standardize it if we don't like the extension uh so yeah i know we can find example where we didn't like an extension anymore so in my opinion there's the yes the the things that we don't want people to use everything else has new ones like deprecated or limited use it's good for this everything else is nuanced so go read the document that describes the extension or cipher suite or whatever to know whether it's applicable or not so i think yeah three values of yes no and go read the document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "or what we really need okay thanks rich oh yeah um my i think we need to handle oh this was you know recommended and then there's you know one of those silly die die die drafts came out and we need to change that value from you know we need to change the value so i don't care what the value is as commented on the chat a space as an indicator is a bad idea in terms of you know accessibility readability understandability pick some character make it a shrug make it a poop emoji whatever but my biggest concern is whatever set of parameters or values we pick it should be possible to unambiguously and without judgment calls decide what they are because otherwise it's going to come to it'll be written in the rfc and that may show up via the ise path which doesn't really have you know doesn't reflect ietf consensus um or you'll defer it to you know the designated experts which are currently me yov and nick and i don't want that so as long as you can describe an algorithm that is determinable and and not halting um i don't care what letters you can we'll just follow those directions okay thanks uh watson uh watson live cloudflare uh i'm i see there's a lot of discussion about wanting to use non-recommended extensions and ciphers as sort of some of the motivation for changing this but we haven't i haven't really heard"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "specific examples or where we've had debates in tls working group about depreciation people saying well we can't declare scientists depreciate because it's still in use and really i think we should be doing changes here as the start of the depreciation process we need a way to signal that you should be moving off this and we should expect an ecosystem whose participants have a way to move off of things and i i think that that you know when we talk about limited use i'm not really sure it has a place i like the idea of explicit depreciation mark although i'm not sure what the exact difference between d and n is um and again i i think a space is not a great idea um that's where we could put in but i also don't think we should be limited to single letters i think something like not evaluated can fit perfectly fine okay thanks you're on so as background i'm cool also on 75 uh 25 the tls recipe and now 75 25 best if we go into neurons here we will want support documentation and that means that people will be working on documents that explain why something is deprecated or of limited use and i think it will make the current situation where we have deprecation documents coming from the tls working group and us in utah trying to to chase them or make sure there are no conflicts and yeah we are talking to one another but we're really duplicating work and setting ourselves for for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "the you know duplication and conflicts and all sorts of funny situations thank you so are are you is it a coordination issue or is it like we shouldn't be deprecating things or um at the moment it's coordination issue i'm not sure we should be deprecating things or i think 70 75 25 did it well and was well accepted for the things it did um and we could use the same mechanism perhaps five years between versions of 75 25 is too much perhaps not but i think it's a discussion we need to have rather than just running to processes in parliament okay thanks becker all right i'd like to make several points um first like we absolutely do need this column for uh for extensions there are lots of extensions which are not defined by the itf and we're just reserving code points for um to give you some examples um the three tlmsp ones which i had to approve which involved reading like a ton of specs about like you know um about like auto stuff um which i didn't read uh ticket pinning password salt password protect password clear um so these are all things which like need copper reservations but we do not think or like we have no opinion on or probably maybe secretly think are bad and so like we absolutely need to call them for these things um so now i think the question now becomes what is the conscious decal um and and for all for all of these and i think there are several you know um the um so i think like obviously we need y um and um i think it's impossible have included um we didn't look and we think this is bad right those are the two things that like that like n basically"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "means um and um or or i think also like and i'll get back to this limited use case thing um so um now but separately so it's got a bunch of things that have ends on them um and then um separately we are on publishing documents that say this thing is actually bad like we published you know md5 die die die or sha one die die die right and so um i i do think it's in value um to have a um uh uh uh um a way to indicate that the itf is like after we looked at this thing and now things just like actively bad and did not be used and so i think that motivates some sort of bad thing and i understand like the concerns there's gonna be a lot of like debate about that but i don't think there actually has to be because like we didn't we didn't have like we already had that debate about how to publish the documents in the first place and so like you know the the the the point of this column in this case is merely as rich says to memorialize the decision the items already made which these protocols are bad right so i don't think that actually requires a lot of litigation um beyond that um so like the what i propose is a um is a minimum three states one of which is good which requires um i guess specification one of which is we haven't looked at it which requires nothing and one of which is this is bad which also requires anti-specification and as i say since we're already doing all those things anyways it's a mechanical transformation from from the um from from the work we've done now the one that is like slightly difficult i think is a sort of limited use one and iron mcdonald raised this a little bit in um in the chat um and um uh and uh the cases for those under used ones and yes dkg right there should be reference um the case of them in used ones is there a bunch of cases where um we've had to make unpleasant compromises about the security of the system um because um uh uh um uh because of some case we're like like like um you know there's uh there's like a lesbian with less cpu or something like that right and um and so like a good example is ccm8 and so i think you know what we could try to stuff that into the yes you know yes um uh um you know uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "um no no opinion a bucket which i suppose in those cases would go in no opinion um but um i think you know we all really are like optimal cases right and so i think there's some arguments he made to allow them to have some um yeah as you have said microsoft environment these algorithms use less memory so i think there's like some cases to have like their own marker um but like also willing to have like i think if we simply had a freeform field that went in no opinion that'd be okay as well um but as i said i do think we need to use those three states because um because i think we it's kind of weird for us to go around it's like because mandy's an n are like we haven't looked and conflating that we looked in this is terrible like seems like a mistake and i hear people saying they'll be all a debate about this but since like we've already as i say we've already observed that debate when we had we decided to publish these documents in the first place yep make sense all right is there do you want to try to do dkg's idea of trying to slim down to two three or more so we can try to focus the conversation uh yeah sure i mean what i can definitely see that you know from from the discussion like what we have here we like n and space could be combined i think um because they're really um there's more states than i think we than anybody has asked for um so we'd have and and i think there is reason to do deprecated um i think we could there still could be debate about that but um i think some of the concerns of how do we determine something's deprecated deprecation like recommendation requires some sort of document action"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "but uh i i didn't i i don't haven't followed exactly what dkg said so if you have that it was just to do a call to see whether like we should just keep it as is with buy or no expand it to three or do more so my idea was just to offer three hums um only raise your hand and don't don't uh not raise your hand and just raise your hand for the one of the three that you prefer or if you prefer more than one you could raise your hand multiple times and then we get a count of who's going for um who wants to keep it at two options who wants to go to three and who thinks that more than three is important okay so the two options would be as they are today which is uh yes and uh not uh yes and not evaluated yes and not yes right okay and then uh three would be yes and not yes and definitely no right right which i called y and bad why inside we keep the the labels y and then as they are and then uh there would be uh then the question would be for more so um candy do i can i run the to the uh thing or do the chairs have to run that i think the chairs have to run the the chairs have to do that let me just boost the candidate text before we get started on all three yep ah sorry the line breaks all right so it's yes no two is yes no bad"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "yes no and bad and three is we need to talk more because it's more than the three states yeah right okay so we're going to do the hand raise and it's just we we're not going to look at the explicit do not raise hand option we're just going to look at the count of raise hand okay so this is going to be the yes and no that's just the two choices so if you like the the only two states in the registry column and michael i think you were briefly in the mic queue i don't know if that was a misclick do you think we should only have two states right and if you want three states or four states you should vote later right yes yes okay and then after that if someone doesn't like any of those three options you can come to the mic and tell us about it okay i guess the accounts basically stopped going up so in this and we had 15 hand raises for the the two option yes or no so this would be so the next poll is gonna be for the three option case yes no and all right yes it was yes no opinion and bad yes yes no bad"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:22",
    "text": "and again you can of course click the do not raise hand button but that is not part of the data set that we expect to be looking at okay i guess we'll call that pretty stable so that's 32 for the the three option case and then the uh the third thing we're gonna vote for was i guess uh more and three options or requires further discussion about what they are did i end the last ballot i it just disappeared for me i apologize i i accidentally hit that button okay uh so i guess i will just run the same thing again because we closed it too quickly sorry about that no it happens the big red button is is right there if you have the right permissions and who can resist pushing on the big red button"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:13",
    "text": "and just a reminder if you previously were trying to fill out the this third poll you need to to decide again positively to raise your hand here if you want if you want to be counted okay i think that's looking pretty stable as well so i will deliberately end the raise hand session now so that was 18 hand raised for the the more than three options case so that's a modest preference for the three option case it looks like but perhaps not a truly definitive conclusion so i guess my my own personal stance which i'll take because i already have my gone is that it sort of seems like we have uh enough support to say like let's actually write up write a draft for this three option case and try and get more feedback on that and of course if people want to write up the other cases as well in more detail that's obviously fine but this is probably a path forward joe shawn does that seem like yeah i think that that sounds good to me i think we'll write that up and see what it looks like and then we'll obviously get more feedback um as we go drop in a link to the repo if somebody wants to write text"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "for prs in the chat thanks okay um so is that uh enough of the feedback that you wanted from from this presentation slot that's this is excellent um um i guess you know it's the tls working group doing this thing but if others are other working groups are adopting it or are thinking about it that they should think along the same lines possibly right and i will just note that i did not read all of the chat but i see a little bit of discussion going by about the relationship between the work of the utah group and you know having this registry column at all but i think that would probably be something more to take to the list so it seems like the other issue to take to the list is what happens to the l category that was previously talked about from my perspective i don't have any problem if if like a document is is defining the use of something that it points you know can get pointed to from the registry you can always include more references there typically you know most of the things we're talking about have been out have been cipher suites which maybe there's a whole lot of references get added that way but if it's this particular extension that comes in you know automotive use case or whatever is the one that was being discussed i mean the extension comes in there's a reference column for what that is and it gets an n and that's okay people can go read why the n is we do have to expect"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "a lot of this problem is that people that aren't reading the documents that are referenced in the iana considerations section but that's why it's there so at some point we have to kind of push them to do a little work okay chris go ahead or maybe that was a spurious queue entry from chris inacio uh rome do you want to bring up the chair slides just so we can put the open mic uh slide up but uh as we prefaced into that talk that was the the the tls recommended column was the only schedules as united we have so we're into the open might open mic section so please join the queue seen anyone jump up to the queue here i'm not singing either and we are actually doing okay on the time management with our scheduled one hour that we had for sag leaving space for sec dispatch if they needed it okay oh chris reports that he he was trying to get in the cube but his audio"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "was broken he wanted sean turner to clarify on the automotive use case if there are active algorithms for automotive that aren't recommended for general use i do not so i don't know that specific list i was probably mixing the algorithm and extension use uses in my head because typically you know like one one document points to the algorithms it gets defined and then it just gets used in a bunch of places um so there are lots of references there they get pulled in that way um so there would already be a hey it's not useful here and then if people really wanted to know they could figure out that way with an extension it's slightly more direct and that the reference is right there for whatever the extension is if there was one defined specifically for the automotive use case or whatever use case there is okay i see chris says thanks in the chat thank you but in that time there has not been anyone else joining the queue so i think it is time to say thank you everybody and give you some time back thanks so much everyone see y'all later bye"
  }
]
