[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "quiet until then alrighty um so we are one minute passed so we will go ahead and get started"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "uh this is the sack i'm working group uh and chris and i are your co-chairs for this working group there's chris's smiling face so the held on me this here is the note well for the ietf that you will have seen in many locations please be aware of uh its contents i'd like to to remind you all that you all are to participate in a respectful and courteous manner and to we are all here to help each other achieve our ultimate objective of stronger and better standards for the iatf we have a very short agenda for today [Music] one thing do we have a note taker is that going to be you chris all right um um okay we need to get rid of the echo area excellent uh so this is our agenda for today um we're going to talk about the architecture document that has been uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "moving around and also the coast wood document um and then talk about way ahead i'm sort of i was sort of has it i was sort of dragging my feet because um adam montville was supposed to talk about the architecture and then he's had a last-minute conflict and then kathleen moriarty said she would step in and so we don't have either of them here at the moment so do we want to maybe swap coast wood first yeah i mean i actually put coast wood first originally and then i moved sack and architecture up because kathleen said she needed to leave early so i was uh but since i don't see her we will swap it back and how coast wood will be next so i know there's no slides or anything for coast wood um i don't know if hank or david if one of you wants to talk about the current status of coasted and the upload updates for that go ahead hi everybody so yeah um um first of all uh thank you roman for uh being patience with us i think uh your concerns and issues and contribution have been addressed now we are in the uh um phase of uh finalizing some of the less leftovers of the area and directory reviews um that's on us i i thought we were thorough but to be honest it's kind of hard to keep track of this when uh when there is no issue tracker but you have a text review and so so we at everything there was an issue and there wasn't the uh the romans um and thing we we addressed but uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "it appears and roman again you are the uh gatekeeper here thank you a lot for taking on that responsibility i think we have like 4.5 um issues left there and dave might have more input on that i don't think there's any normative changes um based on the remaining um area reviews um yeah that's correct but there's some some some niches things so i don't know how uh how we have to deal with that maybe maybe you two have an uh concept for god hank you're asking me yeah yeah dave exactly so so so i i also agree i agree so i don't think there's any normative problems anymore with the document so so normatively this can progress i think there's some um polishing items but i i don't think they are the blocker at all we can we can resolve these in an isg review so i think uh roman has posted in the chat that as far as he's concerned there's a number of some some feedback that needs to be addressed um yeah but is that a normative feedback or is this um is this editorial no there are some things yeah some things got pointed out about i think specifically how the iana registries got shaped and we need to bang that out to resolve that before we go to itf last call because how we handle the behavior of the registries is something the community is going to want input on okay so we are in and of course in dialogue with ayanna apparently so and they they have not raised that exact issue so that is a question of a favorite art um so yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "how would you propose to resolve that like presenting the question to the to the list and that other people decide on this i guess that's that the working group should should be the the arbiter here right i mean ayanna's gonna take the action that is recommended in the document but the reviewers pointed out some things about how things are registered in ayanna you know and we need to resolve that i think here in the working room okay so so um so we will take your recent input on the ayana topics and and put them to uh yeah basically we resolve them like in a two weeks period on the working group list and uh and then then go from there so did you make it make note of the email that uh roman has linked in the chat so that you guys can follow up on that email yeah i'm aware of roman's input but i i actually thought it was more of a style meta and not really a uh a a working group decision at this point yeah i think i think the decision was really about what we name the registry or what path we um we choose for the registry which is more style than exactly so that that's what my interpretation is also but but if you think we have to bring this back to the list sure but i also think we could just provide a preference well i think the point is is that there needs to be another update to the document before roman sends it to ietf last call so whether sorry acoustic did not get that sorry please please rephrase that i think the point is that there needs to be an update done before it moves to the next step so you guys need to do that update"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "yes that seems to be an honor okay i i'm with you okay the other changes the other discussion was not about the name of the registry it was actually which registry it was going in and double checking whether it's swit or coast with yeah that's double checking so and and i think and and dave okay but before i attained any discussion here dave do you have an um voice in preference here right now because i have one but i want to take the discussion uh [Music] i think the right now i was just going to look at the draft um i think right now it's with um and the intent behind that is the the registries that deal with um controlled you know vocabularies for um for coswood also are to be used for um the iso swiftag um standard as well um and and so we named it suid just to be sort of in the middle um between between the two um and i said that the registries could be used by both um and that's also why we reserved space in the right in the registrations to allow for both um specification required and and standards track um submissions so that you know the that iso could submit um um you know updates as well um and um i think that was the the rationale for why it's named the way that it is exactly right now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "should we more or less respond to the area review in that in that vein so so i think the problem here is that that there was the notion was but but we are not sweet so so so if if we want to have the same uh let's call it major space at the swin and and then we're always tied to that and i think some of the uh standard sex now says uh we might not be tied with that we might be better so to speak and now there's a discrepancy between uh tying ourselves to the the semantic realm of just pure swin and the improvements that coast with could provide and does provide to some extent that's not interoperable today but but maybe in the future and so so so why tie it to the switch space and not do with the go switch space i think that was roman's question uh but roman please correct me if i'm wrong oh you're you're exactly you're exactly right hank i mean we have talked about the possibility that coastwood would track but diverge with optimizations and improvements that swede would not have and then if that's the case we're talking about a different a different animal so yeah scotland it's well recognized that coast wood should be where we hook it there's two there's two different kinds of of registrations in in the what's proposed is this wood registry there's the registrations that deal with controlled vocabulary values which from the beginning we've always wanted to stay in sync with um you know with swift tags on um and um those are the ones that i was referring to then there's a tag registry um for for coswid which would allow us to add new"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "tags to the standard over time tags which may either synchronize or or diverge you know from the swiftag standard that registry allows us to you know to to act in a way that is is um is meaningful for coast with and has no impact on uh the switz standard so i think if we approach it in that way we get the best of both worlds we can synchronize with squid where it's meaningful to do so and um have room to um you know to continue to enhance um coast with you know where there's also a need to do so does that make sense yeah i think i think both unfortunately make really sense so so but i think the the formal problem here is that we cannot give a guarantee that i so will follow our tracks which which i'm relatively certain they will to be honest but on the other hand we can't we can't assume that so so that that's roman's argument so so so there's a there's a there's a conundrum here of of that we are pretty sure an effectively i think we're actually correct um that iso will follow our tracks but also we can't put that into an iatf text because we we don't have the authority to do that so right and then so is our hands tied um you know from a coast with perspective you know based on what iso does um so i don't see the harm no there's no harm there's just a uh that's called a procedural conflict i would see that i think in reality if you look at this realistic there's no problem"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "but if you look at this procedure wise i understand romans has a tendency to say this is tied to iso and and i think i read uh appropriate wording on the list that seems awkward lucy thank you for that um yeah i can see also that um so i i wonder what is the harm of of creating a different course with lane here i i truly agree david with your assessment that this should be the same because that is a benefit that is a very interesting right yeah i mean well let's let's think about what the alternative would be right the alternative would be um i say would have to work with ayanna in order to you know develop a squid lane and then there would be all of the overhead of having to synchronize the coast with and swit lanes um if we wanted that synchronization we kind of get that for free um really at no cost to coast with um with the the current approach um so i mean this this decision point that we're at is either you know do we do we effectively commit ourselves to divergence um from coast with or you know a whole ton of you know overhead and pain um or you know do we do we move forward with a path that will allow them to be synchronized yeah or it's meaningful to do so i i think the right decision is to move forward in the way that we've proposed um and again it has no no downside to coastwood since you know since you know coastwid is establishing this registry and and um and coastwood can continue to evolve independently if it wants to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "yeah i think it might look suspicious at first but i think the benefits really really outweigh the uh formal uh um let's call it uh conundrum that we might face here but that's me so so so i think roman said i think this is a wg decision then should we just put this to a list and call it like i don't know a a a humming thing on the list well i'd like to hear roman's thoughts yeah i mean my personal view is it's it's it's better placed in coast with because i feel like the earlier conversation we had when we were developing this is that we may want to take a divergent path but again that's my personal opinion i can you know we have laid out an argument that we could rationalize in one way or we can rationalize in another and there are consequences for going one way or another it's up to the working group to decide which way they want to they want to lean and i think either way we should document you know the the the consequence of that or you know the coordination that that that gives us as i said personally it makes more sense as coast with me okay so i think that's the duty of the editors to try to weigh the pros and cons of both options present that to the working group let that be bashed and then that is the basis for consensus building does that sound fair i i mean i i i would just like to see the authors come up with a strong clear coherent recommendation this is what you think yeah my recognition is our recommendation is as is in writing too we should do it as is in writing to the mailing list and let's see if anybody is opposed to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "um if nobody is opposed then roll it into the document i don't think we need to have a bashing of this on the mailing list okay i i was i'm i was i was fine until the last part about rolling it into the document i mean because i think the document is is clear that the intent is to provide this registry to be used by both efforts so i i don't know what additional we would roll into the document so there might not be any changes to the document but whatever changes you can take to the document to address all of all of roman's comments uh and resolve this open issue and then update the document so that we can move on okay we can do that okay although i don't know what the update actually would include but yeah let's go back and look at roman's email make sure you've addressed all of his things yeah okay anything else on coast wood otherwise then what's our deadlines here um maybe procedurally i want to ask uh uh do we have hard limits yes we need to get this done okay is there any possible way you guys can get this sent to the email list by the end of the week no um probably not this week have it ended next week yes okay end of next week um okay so um with that uh if there's nothing else on coast with end of next week's our deadline for the next update"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "and kathleen did you want to talk to adam's document i can do the slides or you can if you could that would be much appreciated thank you okay all right so this is on the architecture draft and the way forward next slide please did it do my whole screen or no it didn't there okay so these are just a list of the recently handled issues i'm not adam so i did not handle them so i cannot go in depth on these if there are questions though i can relay them and he can also watch the recording so if there's any any questions otherwise we'll go to the next slide please okay so these are some of the open issues if you have comments on the security privacy considerations and defining the method to describe capabilities please provide comments and there's also an open issue to add a section or a subsection on attestation i think this would be an important addition this is something i personally would you know i could put my hand up to help on that and maybe some others interested would like to help to round that out so we could think about you know posture assessment in context of sacrum type capabilities but also attestation so that we can simplify and make it as easy a process as possible for people who are trying to assess system security um i think hank is in the queue do you have a question hank or to volunteer to help as well just uh highlighting a uh um a universal"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "um comment on the use of the term attestation um i don't know how to phrase this so so there's there's this attestation is a bad word somehow because you never know it is it an action is it so i think what means here um a title rats working group and so yeah exactly we don't need to pick on this you know bullet because this is just a bullet on a slide that says hey we have to recognize that there's going to be a relationship there um so if you'd like to help on text um and or to work on reviews i can do the first draft i'd be happy to do that for a section on that to tie it together and then if you could help work on it then we'll make sure that there are no issues together issue 7 is on my list now thank you thank you appreciate your help next slide please unless there's any other questions okay so i believe um he's been doing some work with the open cyber security alliance um you know for cis center for internet security and also the uh united states government's doing work there um and so i think this is getting at yeah so working code for instantiating the sacrum architecture so this is useful work for that community and and it's ongoing until it's done so i believe adam is seeking help in a few areas to help get this draft wrapped up and then if anyone else is also interested in the open cyber security alliance work so um i'm willing to help on the attestation piece of the draft is anyone else willing to help uh as an editor on the draft perhaps um and and to help um you know contribute text or reviews reviews would be quite helpful"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "to help get this wrapped up on issues um michael you join the queue hey you guys hear me yes yes awesome um thanks kathleen um and everyone else yeah i just wanted to note um you noted usg there i've been working alongside with adam um in the pace effort and we have been as kathleen noted trying to do i guess in some essence experimentation coding on how to instantiate sacrum um under the open cyber security alliance and trying to help support um at the same time to finding out the rest of the sacrum architecture so um just wanted to say that the work is moving along really well um and hoping to support um in editing or writing to the draft where i can oh excellent thank you great um and i think the working group would appreciate or does appreciate that assistance just to get this moving more in wrapping it up yes thank you uh hank yeah so my first question is uh at which stage do you think this work is right now so i i actually uh following pace pace was uh mentioned a year ago i think the first time it was highlighted and i was carefully uh following that work and and i have a hard time understanding where we are right now so it's like in the middle of it are we in the in the finding the terminology place that we'd be building the the overall concept still in the polishing phase so so where is this work uh currently uh processing this slide they're working on uh code that instantiates the sakam architecture and so terminology things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "of that nature are addressed within this working group so i really hope because this working group has been going on forever that we're pretty far down the path yeah so that's that's another problem so so because i don't know where the state of the second architecture is i can't really map what targets the code is is now so what what the requirements and code are based on the architecture so maybe you could help us there yeah of course yes okay so uh what's your assessment from reading the draft and have you provided comments and have the command comments been addressed no no i did not provide any comments my assessment is that it is an arbitrary set of uh let's call it solution building blocks that are in software but in the end i do not know what what the current problem that is addressed that's my my my first of all um question here right now so i understand the problem of second of course but i didn't don't see that problem of second address in the uh oca uh uh uh code that is on on github at the moment so so there's a disconnect a mental disconnect for me okay so that would be for oca and maybe michael could answer some questions uh let's keep the draft separate so that beckham can eventually okay okay yeah and i i'm just jumping in here real quick the pace effort as it is under oca is actually fairly new it hasn't been going on for a year it's only been a few months um it's been in relation to what's been going on in sacrament for a little bit and there's been discussions around how to start codifying this but you know from that aspect it hasn't that yeah i don't know where the year came about from um but yeah because i i didn't mention it sorry i adam and i did this uh back in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "the days no yeah yeah so i mean that that being said yeah we are working towards that to try and help you know define what is within the sacrum architecture but also fuel into whatever to what we are achieving within the pace work of doing posture attribution collection evaluation so um it we're moving down that that path and so hopefully we will have more results sooner rather than later we we also need to flush out the github a little more that github is still relatively new as well so yeah so so it's hard for me to to to connect the dots so that's what i'm saying here so so when you're when you're highlighting uh this is this is uh addressing a second to some extent i i can't really bridge that gap today but but i'm i'm sure there might be something there in the future and i'm happy to uh provide comments as soon as that happens happy to talk with you offline hank and we can you know flush that a little more just to help in understanding that that connection so also thank you also i always appreciate it thank you okay great so we have volunteers to help in a few areas from both michael and hank is anyone else willing to review this document so that we can help progress it and wrap it up or even provide text where there are sections that are the remaining open issues we get some volunteers please [Music] anyone all right so i guess uh to the list i i do hope that we get some volunteers appreciate your help in advance so that we could wrap this up and wrap up the working group i think it's this one of the last this is one of the last issues right so getting this wrapped up would be really great"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "all right so um roman is joining queue proceed kind of karen i think we're about to talk about the same thing yeah i think they are so um so the next item on the agenda is the way forward for the working group um let me switch back to my other slides well actually it's just a slide that's blank and says way forward so um at this stage uh in the uh at the last meeting of the ietf roman gave us a um a set of objectives and that we needed to make progress or recharter to make progress and recharter or we needed to close and at this stage we are opening the floor to discussions for way forward taking my chair hat off or i guess leaving it on i'm not sure which is more appropriate i feel like we are not making the progress that we need to make and perhaps it is time to close this working group uh chris did you want to say something i can't hear you chris they come off a mute now okay how's that that's good that's it all right um i took a look at the pace working group i've watched some of kind of adam's updates um you know one of the comments from bill at the last when he presented architecture that 111 was um you know looking for their to continue their monthly update pace for the uh for the architecture draft i haven't seen that um the last updates i see at the pace"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "github site are are from uh dave lemire who's a really nice guy i like dave but he's never come to itf the work seems to be mostly happening outside of ietf so it's unclear to me how we have an ietf working group or something that standardizes it so at this point we're open so at this point we're open up for discussion up for discussion hi there's an echo echo all right let me drop it [Music] i i'm afraid it might be a chris got it sir i don't hear an echo now all right so you know to to reinforce what karen and chris said is i i feel like we have a real energy issue in the working group we we have a coast with document that is our second firm last got a work item and we're barely able to get updates to meet you know specific you know ietf kind of meetings so you know our cadence is we're best keys getting an update you know one spin per every time we meet we just talked about the architecture document and we're unable to solicit kind of additional kind of reviewers and as far as i know we didn't even get an update for this particular meeting so all the data to me seems to be pointing that we've really run out of steam here uh so if we wanted to proceed forward we would need a very strong demonstration of renewed interest and commitment from frankly new parties that would re-energize us to do something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:08",
    "text": "karen's audio you're right oh i see what you're saying i was talking and didn't have my audio so so i don't know where the echo is stood in my fingers okay echo's gone um so i think we need to decide at the working group level what we want to do and then the and then we need to depending on that decision we need to talk about with each of the two remaining documents what we want to do with those i starting at the working group level the recommendation is to close the working group um and i haven't heard any arguments for keeping the working group open um okay so um go ahead hank yeah so the audi uh real um um requirements have on the working group is uh let us finish crossfit and then that's okay so if that's fine with with everybody here in the working group i i think i can't speak against uh what but roman just said that there's uh i don't know we're losing steam"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "and that's fine uh there's content here um that might be salvaged to to some other place and pace might be a place i can't i can't tell talk about that but uh but i think there has been a significant evolution and significant effort put into understanding how this distribution of posture information works and i know that other sdos are taking up on that and maybe there is uh there's uh some uh way to to not let this go to ways to speak i mean i mean there's a lot of lesson learned here and i think that is not to be underestimated seriously uh on the other hand uh in this working group it might not come to any uh fruition now so so so i don't know where this uh the fragments of of its remnants will end up but but i would really like to uh highlight that we should take care not to just put them into the draw and be done with it right so um so for for the high level working group decision of um [Music] closing the working group or not i think probably what we want to do is send a quick note to the mailing list and give a week or two to see if anybody has any strong reasons why and strong commitments for why the working group should uh open i should should remain open um and in the event of that uh we should proceed with closing the working group not talking about the two specific documents yet go ahead kathleen just because adam's not here um i would like him to have a chance to speak up and and um and michael as well because their work is being implemented right so we do actually have an implementation behind the saccum architecture um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "even if that means they're given some kind of quick timeline because of the lack of energy just to get it wrapped up and so that they're forced to put a fire under the draft and get it finalized yeah i think part of and and perhaps roman can speak here but part of what i was trying to do is to separate the working group decision from that draft because i do think uh i think a lot of work has gone into that draft and i do think that there is it's making progress and so um there's a couple options for how that might be handled going forward um so i that's why i'm separating that from the closing the working group discussion uh but romans yeah it just when a working group closes and a draft is left behind it just it's never a good thing but roman's the a.d yeah i mean i am really sympathetic to that predicament but i would like to just kind of reiterate for everyone this is not a new conversation we have set the january timer uh a couple of ietf meetings ago and everyone is aware that this is kind of what we're heading and no one's voiced anything kind of new again i'm very sympathetic to the drafts we have in flight but we need demonstrated energy to to convince us we can close it and as far as i can tell we've seen no bolus of kind of new energy uh on kind of either document to get us to closure given the cadence of publication i personally think we can get co-suite across the finish line i mean frankly those directorate reviews came in in early august and the fact that we're just talking about them three months later you know is exactly the problem kind of we have but we are very far along uh we're through 80 review uh and we're through kind of early director review so i think we can turn around by january i honestly have less confidence in the architecture document we didn't even get an update for this meeting and if there is this huge amount of kind of interest here we're seeing none of that demonstrated here reinforced here by the fact that we couldn't get any reviewers just even in this meeting so i'm just kind of wondering where that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "energy to closure is going to come from um jess hey yeah i want to um i think i think roman made my point for me but i think one of the reasons that adam and mike brought some of the architecture work to oca was to try to get more engagement try to get more energy behind an implementation that we couldn't seem to muster the energy in ietf and i wonder if i i feel that the document and the implementation might even be stronger if they went hand in hand together maybe um and i know to karen's point we shouldn't be making decisions about this but i want to toss this out to the group to consider if that work could just move to pace so that it doesn't die it doesn't go away it just goes to a place where maybe there's a little bit more energy behind it well that was one of the things i was thinking was maybe it could go to pace and maybe when it's it's a lot more mature it could come back and and potentially be published through the ietf with various options so um it's a little bit unfortunate that we do seem to be picking up steam at this stage um but if all of the work and all of the energy currently is over there than it seems to me then that's maybe where the work at least at this stage should be that's just in my opinion i am here to serve what you all want so um all right so any other um any other comments or suggestions okay so i think the next steps are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "a message to the mailing list about the plan to close the working group the uh coastwood authors have their marching orders for the end of next week on an update and uh maybe a conversation with adam and mike and others that are currently working on that about transitioning the uh architecture work at least in the interim over to pace did you hear anything different chris what i have in my notes what's what i've written down to this point i would say okay okay uh uh roman roman so great i just wanted to i just wanted third option option chris chris chris so everything you sounded it was great i maybe i'm not remembering one piece kind of correctly was there a discussion about down scoping what's currently in the architecture document and changing how much detail it provides and rethinking i believe the track of how that was published as potentially a third a third route am i not remembering that right well there was well there wasn't any discussion today i think one of the challenges is it would be really helpful to have adam as part of that conversation so maybe that's something we should take offline with him yeah that sounds like yeah i didn't mean to imply that it was during the meeting i thought there was an earlier perhaps this was a private discussion about uh you know i won't say more we'll kind of have it on the list but i think it was around right now the current document is a ps"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "and we could potentially make it informational to make sure that the working group has an artifact it kind of finishes with and then that would dovetail onto what we've been discussing here that white pace might pick off pick up where where the working group left off we'll get adam yeah that's a i hadn't really that's an interesting idea i hadn't thought about that um [Music] i i don't remember if it was this context or another where there was a discussion about a.d sponsoring a document but um i might be remembering that in a different working group unfortunately i'm not remembering that one now okay so i am remembering a different working group so two can play at this right yeah there's too many conversations going on at once so um but yeah i think that that would actually be a a conversation have when you when you first said down scoping the document i i was trying to put time bounds around i mean there have been many many conversations about the scope of architecture and it's you know it's bigger and it's smaller and it's bigger and it's just yeah yeah i apologize we'll let adam we'll let adam speak but the way i believe the some of the conversation went and this was my my word was downscope so there are outstanding kind of issues that i believe some of the implementations have identified and some of them are open issues and then you know there's always a desire like let's close them and by down scope i meant was not to address them to just acknowledge that these are issues with the architecture for someone else to kind of fix but they will not be addressed here uh to be able to put a pin in it okay yeah no i i would uh i mean if especially if adam is amenable i would be it would be nice to be able to wrap this up some way because there has been an enormous amount of conversation and work that's gone into this over the years so so i think the action then is to follow up with with adam on what his thoughts are on on wrapping this document up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "all right thank you roman any other uh questions or comments i have nothing more i think we have a very cogent plan like you said we'll put something on the mailing list uh confirm that we are going to wrap things up in january as we said with the milestone we heard from the code squid folks from the team saying they're going to get something out to us next week and i i would hope that we could maybe even put something uh on the late december telechat if we can get through ietf last call and then we just discussed you know there's a little bit more conversation we need to have around the architecture document but otherwise i mean everything you describe is great so i was just repeating to make sure i caught it all okay um all right so with that um i'd like to uh if there's nobody else left in the queue i think that draws our sacco meeting at ietf 112 to a close um and uh i'd like two okay so the 14th december telechat all right uh and with that everybody have a good rest of the ietf week and uh see you around the virtual hallways you"
  }
]
