[
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:08",
    "text": "So somewhere in the open air slides? Should I hand over to Perhaps. Yeah. So even in the first one, because there's the so, responsibly, they have no claims slash Eric inca. So you have a slide it on the state of the documents. Yep. Because, I wanted to Yeah. I just wanted to explain, the multicast, IVR. Okay. From the the the trustees, Oh, okay. FISLIP pre 53 Yeah. So Yeah. He goes. He works you're Yeah. So so then we can start, and then you can I will dot Yeah? Okay. Hello, everyone. Welcome to the meeting of the 6 low working group. Please make sure that you are in the red room My name is Carlos Gomez. The other chair is Shreta Bandari. She's remote today. And, as responsible AD there has been a very recent change actually, it was on Wednesday that, was the the formal change So, our responsible AD has been for several years, Eric Klein, And now there will be a change Eric Vinca will take over as responsible AD for 6 low. Actually, we would like to, take the opportunity to thank Eric client for all the help guidance and and support. During these years."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "And at the same time, we would like to welcome Eric Binka. I don't know if perhaps, Either well, You may want to just to say Eric Link talking here, I was also already the, responsibility for LP 1 and shake. So it's kind of logic added, like, take this just to relieve some work on the workload of Eric because he's taking DTM. Which is a big one. This way. So looking for what you. I mean, I know most of you anyway. to work with So Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. So, yeah, likewise, okay. So Then, for the meeting today, we still need some minute takers. Is there anyone who would like to volunteer? Either in the room or remotely I would hate to start my first responsible AD by blocking the meeting until we have a minute taker. Right? So please do me a favor. Looking at Eric. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. So, then recall that usual, we are taking minutes by using Hdoc. So Everyone, feel free to join and contribute to the process of taking minutes cooperatively. Then there's a few meeting tips similar to the last few IETF meetings. For in person participants, please make sure that you sign into the session by using"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "Mitecco. For example, you may use the on-site tool, which is available from the data tracker agenda. I don't recall that it's important to use me to echo, join the queue. There's a single unified queue, which is managed directly from and also blue sheets are automatically generated from me to go. So those of you in the room, please make sure that you have, joined the session. And for remote participants, just keep your audio and video off unless you are presenting Then, this is the note well. Probably at this moment in the week. You may have seen this text already several times. Anyway, recall that this is a reminder of IT policies which are in effect on several important topics such as patents, code of conduct, and others. So please make sure that you have read it And this is the agenda proposed for today. So, the first slot is the, usual chairs introduction, which is currently in progress. Then this will be followed by a set of 3 presentations by, The first one is the path aware semantic addressing for LLNs. Will be followed by the generic address assignment option for 6 open indeed. And also related is the reliability considerations of Pasa So, that will be followed by a presentation by myself in this case. On the transmission of sheet compressed packets over 15.4 networks. And the last presentation will be by young one on transmission of ipv6 packets over short range optical wireless communication. So this leads to a total amount of 60 minutes of allocated time. However, we have up to 90 minutes scheduled for the session. So perhaps if needed, there may be some margin for discussion. And other than that, is there maybe any comment or question"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "about the agenda? Any comments? Okay. So if there are no comments this is the Report on the working group document status The first one encryption. The document is in the state of submitted to ISG We have received already a couple of reviews from the transport area, general area, Bascale, who's the author, has been, in contact with the reviewers and it appears that they have agreed some reached some agreement, and probably there will be some a dated version of the draft anytime soon. Perhaps, Eric, yeah, you wanted to mention Yeah. Eric Klein. Just wanted to, mention a few things here, especially, Eric, for your benefit. This I think is out of, IETF last call. There's some reviews. Pascal has been updating things. One notable thing about this document is that it updates 4861. Neighbor Discovery, which predates 5378 IPR assignment. Stuff. And so I have, CCD loan and email to the trustees. And the authors and and the chairs as well. To, get answer back about what to do about the IVR status. It's not a hard problem. You just gotta figure out which bits of text go where. So Otherwise, it should be should be, Ready for your your review and then bring it to the Telstra. Thank you. Okay. Then there are 3 other working group documents which are in earlier stages The first is Pathaware, semantic addressing for LLNs, it has been updated since the last ATF, and it will be presented today. The second one is the transmission of sheet compressed packets over 15.4 networks, which has also been updated and also will be presented today. And the last one is ipv6 and the prefix registration"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "It has been, slightly updated. However, Unfortunately, Pascal hasn't been able to attend the session so this document will not be presented today. So any comments or questions. Okay. So if there are no questions, then we can proceed to the first presentation by Rudi to ask you to That's to Oh, sorry. I think I blocked it. Can you ask again? Slide. So and who a press again because So nothing happens here. Oh, okay. And it works. Okay. Hi. This is the the the update on the pass a document. So, since the last meeting There has been in in February, actually, patent disclosure from the same company I work on. None of the out of of this document are on that patent. Came out of the blue And, honestly, I don't have anything else to to add the accepted is there. And then in February, in March, really, we we we updated the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "the document as you remember, the last time we discussed about the fact that go on with the work with gal the that I will present, after this one. So, we we What we did is basically changed the structure and put a lot of content from this document to the GOW document because now the Pasa document relies on the Gao option. Okay. So the there is, a small change in the structure we updated the terminology, with the change, the that we use the gout option now document, does not need to update, RFC 8505. Because if you remember, the first solution was to, introduce to reuse the other option. Which is not the case anymore. In a case or And we we have the reference, obviously, to to go. In the about the assignment functions, Okay? This has been removed and this in the gout document because now in this document, we just focus, on the PASA assignment function, which just, to remind you is this 3 based assignment function that allows you to have a very small routing table and almost stateless for the wording. Right? We don't need any more to to use a bit in 6 CRU to signal the the the past capability, Okay? What we use is now Gal option."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "That one needs to to have a bit in 6 CIO. You will see it. But then in in the in the gal, we we used, Add this assignment function code. From Pasa. That's all we do now. Yeah. As I said, we don't need to to to define any new NDR and now, with Liongau. And so Basically, we changed what in the previous edition where the definitions of the option, the extension or the the reuse of Yarrow, now have been changed in the fact that we we give examples of the use of the gal. Okay. And there are, several things from the IANA section that went away just because, again, we we we use the the the gout documents. So We don't need to do find them here. Anymore. What we keep in the IANA section is the fact that actually we ask for a code point for the address allocation, assignment function that reuse in this document. But the registry is defining the order document. And that's it as a as an update, the the deep that technical content of the document didn't change in the that all the algorithmic, function to assign the, that addresses still there, Okay? It's just the the the user of a different option in order to generate the addressing. So we think it is stable. And it's now ready to be considered as, for for, reviews from the other areas and, working group plus call the decision of the, let's say, on on the schedule is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "up to the chest because in a centered way, we still need work on the gal document. So if we don't, progress with that one, this one will be park it somewhere at some point. So I don't know. It's it's a to the chest then to to to schedule how to proceed with this, really reduce what you're gonna last call. Yeah. So, we discussed, with Shruta and, 1st, maybe it would be good to have, reviews from 6 low so we agree that the the core of the document has been stable for a while. So now it's a good moment for that. Is there anyone who would like to volunteer to review this document Otherwise, we can, anyway, ask again on the mailing list. But it could be great to to get reviews from 6 low and then also as suggested by the author from other areas as well. So then when the standard after that, maybe it will be the the moment for, working with us Sure. Sounds good. Okay. Thank you. Since nobody take the mic, I was assuming there are no comments or maybe Eric. Eric Vink. We are all in the process, right, So you can do the working group last call all for it. But if you push for publication, Right? I I guess it will be easier that yahoo and these documents go together. Front of the Edge. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's that's I mentioned sooner or later it will be packed if we wait it out. It's just I mean, we can do this part. And then Wait. Wait. Okay. We all agree. I sure. need to be Okay. So any other comments about this document?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "Otherwise, we can proceed sits to the next presentation. Still my logies, do me? So They stopped sharing this last. I'm gonna ask you again my screen. Thank you there there is one last thing on the document, actually, I I uploaded, a new revision this morning, but actually the only change is the affiliation of Pascal there are no other changes. 20 Yes. So, Gao, the generic address assignment option, visual number 2. So far, no surprises about IPR that Okay. Well, that's the blue. Anyway, As I said, the last time, we we we we need to work on the document to to shift part of the content from Pasa to here and then make sure that everything fits together and and, And, and the quality of the document improves just because the adverse first revision was just a busy Cadier right And, so we added the concern, the content shipped at the past of, the content from Pasa, and, we added, the text that was needed. Now, One of the comments that we had last time before was Adnan that said, do we need the confirmation of the the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "the use of the obtained address to be mandatory because the idea was, I used the Gower option to ask for an address. Receive the address, and then they are used registration documents, which is not in this one. It's it's document already discussed to confirm which address I I use. And there was the discussion whether or not we can avoid the second part in certain cases And so just Ask for an address. Receive their reply and use it. So what we did, we, we we we defined just uh-uh one bit in order to make this this part optional. So basically, what happens is, the the the note sends the GAL option in order to, ask for an address. That applies that comes, that is if the router that assigns the the the address. Once a confirmation please tell me, you are really using this address. Sets a bit the confirmation bit, basically, Okay. And then in that case, you use the legislation mechanism already defined using the option. Okay. Thanks, Owen. Hello? Let me, you know, just specifying one one last thing. The the use of the bit. So because the the as we discussed last time the, the, the the format play, let's say, of this option"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "and the ERO option are pretty similar because in the different exchange, you can reuse some of the fields Okay? I just want to make clear that that that that the bid that we find now is from the scale option. Nothing changes in the arrow option. Whatsoever. Okay? Because you remember there were a a few conflicts about the bit user with that doesn't exist anymore just because we have a new option. Okay. We are the the the the, as always, So and, we are, we added as well, the the description, how why is there, how will you use it, etcetera, and the right references We need We need to define a new weather condition when we use this option because basically what we say is you use the, the, the, the errors condition that are, defined already in 85 5, but there is something that may arise in this when using this option, because if you remember, you see there is the this AAF field, which is the address assigned name function. Code that tells, please Give me, an address using These algorithm Or if I put 0, when I receive the replies, Look, I gave you this address using these algorithms. Okay. Now it may happen that if somebody asks I want to obtain an address using this Maybe on the other side, that that that algorithm is not supported. Okay? So we need a way to to signal this particular state. So there is this new definition of the AAF not supported. That case, the the there is no at least so far, we didn't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "mandators, any specific Action. We can do nothing, but that then we don't have the address. Okay. We can retry using a different, AAF Okay. Okay. You don't support this algorithm. Maybe you support another one. Or simply reissue the request and put AAF20 meaning, me whatever you have. Choose an algorithm and sending back an address. I need an address. K. Discussion with the other crowd was we think would be wise to but I recommend one of these Okay? But Yeah. Maybe we should discuss a little bit on on the of the implications on the mailing lists. Okay. So far, we we left it open for discussion. 6 CIO. The we need to to, signal the fact that there is this option. Right? So we need, to allocate one bit, in the, 6 IO, So if we look at the name of the the bits or already Allocated. G is already taken. The the a is already taken. Okay. Luigi is already taken. So we put m as a managed addresses. We came up with this. If you have a better idea, please tell us. We are open. And, and then later we discovered that we are actually, I suggesting, a position that is already taken That's my fault because I just, went to the registry, the of IANA, but he didn't check"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "holder documents that are requesting and it is. So is not yet on the registry, but let's say he's is booked But this is yeah. I mean, this is the position is easy to fix. The m name, so far Since it is mobile, as I said, if you have an idea, a better idea, Please. Share it. And then, again, a section, absolutely. This is way bigger than before, because we have to define. So we have to request the bit. We have to define the the error code that the we have to create the Yeah. Yeah. Registry, and we have to ask for the and the option type for Gauss. So so the the code point to identify the that option. The section is there, as usual, IANA had does a wonderful job before each IETF, they review the documents and send you a feedback. So we have a few things to be fixed Okay? But Nothing, critical, I would say. So we think we are going in the right Okay. As I said, we have to fix IANA We have to have a deeper look to security our conclusion is we need discussion on the mailing list, and reiterate so that we have an even better document, by, Vancouver so that at that point, we may discuss, if document is good enough to be, adopted. But but Yeah. That's That's the update so far. Any comments question."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "Okay. Any question I was about to ask about adoption, but, you already explained your plans. Yeah, mean, I with We are not in a hurry. Yeah. Yeah. So, for me, it's find to, to have another revision, make sure that everybody agrees then we can we don't need necessarily to wait until Vancouver. I mean, we can update the document before and then, proceed on the mailing list, but I think, it makes sense to have, at least one division more to fix these things. Okay. Makes sense. Thank you. So if there's no other comments or questions, on this document, then the next one still related with Pasa is the reliability considerations. Should be shorter. Sorry. Can you Yeah. Can you ask again? Yep. You know, See This one. Okay, reliability. We Did 2, two updates. We didn't discuss this document time. So in the meantime, we have, 2 updates. There is not that much in the content per se, what what did change is the terminology to make that we use the right terminology because did change in the meantime in the Pasa document in Gao. So we need we didn't need to to fix that. And then we fixed the the some some figures, the for which the ID needs was complaining, that that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "interpreting the the the the figures in a different way. And, mean, document we we think is done, but but we have to decide a little bit what to do with it. The sense that this document exists because, the beginning of Pasa, there was she had a request on the mailing list to discuss their reliability aspects of ASSA. Okay? That is that is why this document exists. Now At this point, we have 3, 3 options. Okay. We could merch with Pasa, Okay. To be honest, It's not my my favorite solar solution because this would make a bigger document in less less clear. So I I don't think, we need that. The other two choices is either we adopt it as a working group item as information, informational we publish it or just let it expire. I mean, the ice we she has a statement about the fact that not all the scripting document like this one that had a purpose at some point, in time, not all of them needs to become RFCs. So I mean, the the the the callers, we are fine for whatever option you like in a certain way. I mean, but there is no need to to do more work in our opinion. On this side. So could have any opinion Okay. So opinions, comments Okay. So, well as a participant, I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "I like the document. I think it's it's useful. To understand how the issue of reliability can be addressed. With Pasa. So, I wouldn't like to see it expire, although I end that there may be pressure on the ASG. Then just to to to to be precise. The fact that it it it expires doesn't mean that the it will, disappear. I mean, we, we, it will be, in the past, a document will be, informative reference to an expired document. So we can all end By the way, the discussion are to to get rid of this expiration date for the drafts, a good idea. But, anyway, the the the document will be always there the proven point is Does it need an RFC number. Maybe not. That's that's that's the point So, Eric, you're doing and Eric, yeah, Eric, you can come to the mic, you know, better the the story of it. In the, in some case, the document that, on the, the tracker they expired. And it's okay. Right. We don't need an RFC for everyone. But, again, I just knew in this working group. I don't know the context. I just tell you, there are 2 ks. Sometimes they are privileged in RAC and sometimes not. If it ends up in your guitar, we can keep into the URL assist you to do the You're working, Bointer to the guitar. Yeah. So so this is, one of those documents that you, you have the pointer to the ISG statement about where I personally don't have a problem with informational framework architecture documents. So I think, you know, if you're looking for Internet history for something, you can go find these documents and they can be very helpful."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "Some people think it's kind of like not a use of public the use of publications based in time. The what, the one comment I I will make that, where one recommendation I will make is that if this document does not advance to the tele chat with the other documents, Mhmm. Then the reviewers are not gonna probably go spend the time to read this this document. So what's really important is that the documents that do advance to the telechat have a very concise section, that summarizes all the highlights. Could have an informational reference to this for more, but, like, it should be very clear to help set tone for the reviewer who's coming to this with context. no And say, this is what they're doing. I see. Okay. Excellent point. Yeah. Excellent point. Absolutely. Okay. Any other comments Seeing none, Thanks. Okay. Thank you very much, Fuji. Okay. So the next presentation is by myself in this case. Okay. So I'm going to present the last the date of the draft and title transmission of she just packets over IEEE or 2.15 of 4 networks. My call Next, please. So for a reminder of the main goal in this document, on the left, you can see the traditional IPV 6 based protocol stack."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "Over 15.4 as the reading interface. Here, 6 low pan is the adaptation layer between ipv6and15.4 and it comprises 2 main components. The first uppermost is head of compression. Other one is fragmentation. So what we want to do in this document as the main goal is to offer an alternative for the header compression part, which would be using shake header compression instead of 6 low band had a compression. And, Sheik is the main product of the LP 1 working group. And it comprises a head of compression mechanism and the expectation is that it should provide a great 4 months greater compression degree than 6 low pan. And the reason is that she exploits a priority knowledge of the Heatherville field values of the packets that will be transmitted. Next, please. So, on the status of the draft, it was at around 1 year ago today and presenting version 05. And there are some updates. First is in the area of discussing the possibility of rule ID to reuse. So this means it is possible to have these joint pairs of endpoints. Using different rules. However, that may have the same rule ID. And, another set of updates is due to, PRO which is an inside joke, we call pro. Remember this is one of the route over modes that we support for multi hub communication, in, There are several dates, after a review and several synced by Georgios. So thanks a lot for that. And also some of these updates were discussed in a chic working room iterim, on the 20th February. And then there are also a few other minor updates. Next, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:06",
    "text": "So first of all, before going into the actual updates, This is the table of contents or the diff the table of contents compared with the previous version. And I think that this is the first time that, there is no changes regarding the structure of the document itself So there are updates within some sections, but not, in this structure itself. Next, please. So first of all, the first update is in section 1, the introduction, we have added some explicit text, to state that the mechanism to provide the she had a compression context to the nodes in a 15 dot 4 network. Is out of the scope of this document. However, will have to monitor the progress of the sheik working group work, in particular, the sheik architecture draft. Perhaps we may have to reference that document and also the same text has been added in section 3 2, which describes the network topologies supported in in this document. Next, please. Then, we have some updates in 3.4, which describes multi hub communication. So, this is in order to provide this, additional notes on whether the rule ID can be reused. So recall that we have 3 modes currently in the draft for rollover. And then we also have mesh under. So for route over, the first one is the straightforward route over. Regarding this case, all intermediate nodes, all routers, store all the chic rules, which are used by all nodes in the network, for compression and decompression. And, for this for this reason, We state in the document. We've added that the rule ID must not be reused across these joint pairs of endpoints because otherwise, there would be ambiguity."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "Then the second route of a mode is the tunnel repo based route over TRO. In this case, recall that, There is a tunnel from the source up to the root in the network. And then if the destination is internal to the 6 will pan network, there's a downward panel as well. From the root, So here, we have added that if all the six lanes in the 6 loop and network, routing away leaves, then a rule ID may be reused across the joint pairs of endpoints because in this case, there is no risk of ambiguity, because the root can still tell who is the the actual source of that packet. Because, it is indicated in the encapsulator address of the IP and IP Heather. And otherwise, there would be ambiguity. So in that case, related this must not be reused across these joint pairs of endpoints. So, Next, please. Then the 3rd mode is the pointer based route over. What we act calling recently April. Recall that in this case, that she conference packet is preceded by a pointer which indicates where in the compressed header is the IPV 6 destination address, compressed residue, and, therefore, this allows any note like intermediate modes, to be able to reconstruct the IPV 6 destination address of the contrast packet without having to store the sheik rules. So in this case, We've added that in pro. Rule ID may be reused across these joint pairs of endpoints, and, the order to identify the different rules used by such list of endpoints, the nodes may use an additional identifier. For instance,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "this identifier might be an ipv6 address, for instance, the accuracy, the Stanish address, or another identifier like the header session ID, which is being developed, as a concept in the shake working group. Next, please. So Still in pro, we have also modified the figure with the example for this mode, in this case, basically, as you can see, we have added that there are 2 pairs of endpoints. For instance, AC and DB, which both are using rule ID 2 to identify some rule. However, perhaps these rules are different, but they have the same rule ID. Again, the idea is that there's no risk of ambiguity here, And then also there's, the same with endpoints A and E or BNF, which, share also the same role ID. For perhaps different rules. Next, please. Okay. So the last one is for mesh under, we already had text explaining that it is possible to reuse, the rule ID in that case. However, we didn't have a figure with an example. So we have that mostly the same figure as for parole. However, in this case, well, the only difference is the notes in the middle, which are the noted m correspond to mesh and the forwarders. Recall that in mesh under, those notes intermediate notes, are not IP routers So that's why in RFC 6606, we had to come up with this name of mesh and the forwarders, which are the notes called m here in the Next, please. So the next set of updates is regarding the raw frame format,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "which has been modified, for several reasons as you will see. So the upper most figure on the slide provides basically what is the 15.4 frame payload, then, the First field, the leftmost field is the raw header, which we'll see next. And then, that is followed by the sheik compressed packet if necessary, there's some padding as well. So, regarding the pro header, Here we can see it already, the different fields in this header but now let's write them, and in particular, the new ones or updated ones. So next please. So, the left most field in the bra Heather is the sheik point of dispatch, which was already defined in previous versions, of the draft. So there are no changes here. Then there are the next four fields which are under the red line which are either new or updated. And the first one is the context identifier, the CID, it is one bit, which just signals the presence or not, of the optional DCI field, which would be, next. So DCI stands for Destination Context identifier. This is a 4 bit optional field. Which identifies the prefix of the ipv6 destination address. So the idea here is to proceed similar to, the context that is defined in RFC 6282. And this is to allow support of possible several, different destination address prefixes. Because, this was one of the comments by Georgios. Otherwise, there would be only one possible destination prefix to be used. And, some interesting feature is that if in in that case, if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "we only want to use a single destination prefix, then the additional overhead of these 4 bits of the DCI will not be present. So another point is that we've added that how this context is distributed and maintained is out of the scope. So, again, the context is similar to 6282 meaning that there will be some tables in the notes with, some contacts indicating some short ID corresponds to some particular destination prefix. Next, please. Then, the 3rd field is the bit pointer. So in the previous versions of the draft, you may recall that the Bit Pointer in Pro indicates the starting position of the IP 6 destination address residue in the sheet compass ipv6 header. However, here, there is some slight modification, which is that this this now it has to indicate the starting position of the hot limit field because as prompted by a a common by, Georgios, The notes the middle, intermediate, no 6 LRs. They need to have access to the hop limit field. They need to decrement that field when a packet is forwarded So Yeah. We needed some way to expose the help limit. And, Also important to keep in mind as you will see later is that we assume that after the hop limits compression residue. There will be the ipv6 destination address residue. Then the last new field is the bit called HLM, which stands for hop limit. If it's set to 0, it indicates that the hop limit field has been compressed to its 4 list significant bits. With the foremost significant bids being equal to 0, which means that we can encode, up to the value 15. And, otherwise, if it's set to 1, the hop limit field is not compressed. It's 8 bids and compressed."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "Okay. Next please? And then to support this operation of the Pro, mode, Then we have to provide some updates also in section 6.1, which focuses on compression of ipv6 and UDP headers. An an actually, we need to update out of C8724, which is the base sheik specification, which states that in a rule, the field descriptors are listed in the order in which the fields appear in the packet header. However, to support precisely the operation I was mentioning, which means that after the hop limit, what we want to find next is the destination address, not the source, then we have to update and we see it 724 to state that in the special case of pro, the field descriptors of the ipv6 destination address device prefix, device ID must appear for the field descriptors of the ipv6 source address, up prefix on that ID. So the rest of the fields would appear in the same order as in the ipv6 packet header. So, then another addition is that in pro, one rule must be defined for each direction between the two involved endpoints. And, you may recall that, when she was developed, the context was lponenetwork where it is clear that the two points are a device, which means a constrained device, a sensor, for instance, and then some entity called app, which is some network site entity, which is perhaps more powerful. And in that case, single rule could be defined for the communication in both directions because it was clear who is that and who is up. However, in a 15 dot4 network. Maybe that's not so clear. And in this case, now in pro,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "in order to support this operation, now there has to be one rule defined for each direction. Also in addition, the destination endpoint has to correspond to the device role. Next, please. We have also some other possible a date to the base sheik document. Let's see. It's 7 to 4. Again, the basic specification states that if the rule is intended to compress package with different prefix values, then match mapping should be used. And then regarding the IID part of an address, it states that if several IIDs are possible, then the target value contains the least possible, like, IIDs, the matching operator is set to match mapping and the CDA is set to mapping send. However, in pro, A source node must not That's what we state. It must not use the match mapping operator of the mappings and CDA to compress the ipv6 definition address prefix or IID. And that's because 6 LRs do not store sheet context. Therefore, they do not know what is the meaning of a match mapping index that will be sent. Therefore, we have to, say the must not and, avoid this this behavior. So, Next, please. Well, this was my last slide. Any comments or questions? Okay. I see I'm seeing none. So Okay. Thank you. So then we can proceed to the last presentation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "which is on the transmission of ipv6 packets over short range optical wireless communication, Yes. Thank you, Mr. Sherman. This is from. Mhmm. Next slide, please. I do not cheese. I'm not sure it works. It doesn't reproduce. Actually, Oh, this is a state of the the the document. Actually, the this is the third time. So draft of the indirect draft, And there was 2 comment from the floor. There passcode and echo, and the I just incorporate the kind of the SDNC in IDB 60 over authority. Next slide, please. So there's two slides actually it is that kind of cake instruction about the OC and, typically, able to the 15.7. So just I also showed up this to try it, previously. So I will move on to the next slide to Next slide, please. Next slide. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So this is the update between the previous one to the the current version, I also mentioned that it I got the 2 con, comment from the flow, pass and echo. So I just changed it, the introduction, and the the sections 3 dash 4 and for the 4 something like that. And I just also changed some kind of the the the, as I sense it in the in the in the the part. So Next slide, Excights, please. So the first comment I saw was the simple one, from the echo. They especially state hot get the bid, bidirectional. So at the time, the front of the floor"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "some comments about the this the authorities bidirectional or not, they're they have some question, but I just show that the I typically 80802.50.7 you know, provide them bijection or communication between the two optoply c devices. So I just change it like that, the blue The flight, please. Yeah. The second, the the commander that the from the past call is about the the the necessary of the past MTU. So I just put the the blue part the 2 sentences, and the But, you know, that the the second, actually, just we prepare that one to 2 sentences, but the regarding this one, to Sebit. Prepit this cuff. Yeah. Brief a disc. How about that? This this one because without the flea discussion the two that that the the that caught off that line of the the draft submission. So just maybe the first the sentence is enough for me to discuss. So The second ten sentence will be removed. The next version. A kind of the, yeah, mistake, something like that. The next slide, please. The third one, is the kind of the new and the kind of just, conservation the addition about the SCNC in ITP 6 over or w c, as you put that the blue the sentences. So in, OWC by the main utilize mechanism for Heather compression, by SCNC Compression And Prevention. From the RFC 8 7 to 4 if the compression, I think, compression is required"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "for Instinet Estate SSCH it may be used not only for the UDP header compression, but for the IP, deceased header, IPBC header or even the IPBC TCP copy if the copy is used. Affect that. So put that one. But decent is not final. Actually, we need, required for the constitution of that's the next version Thank you. And then next slide, please. So this continue to be marked. This is 3rd individual draft and just we, incorporate the two comments founder. Last subversion And the we would like to ask for the walking drive adoption for or 6 to working group in this session, and and this RTF 1, 19, Actually, previous meeting just the a fraud gave me the good signal signer and it good comment about the, like, 2, I think, I believe this draft is ready for the working group threat dilution, Thank you. Thank you for that. Okay, Eric. Yes, Eric Klein. Thank you for your presentation. So based on just a little bit of feedback from my experience with trying to get NFC published, your document has a has a references section. But the references don't seem to be separated into normative informative So you should separate the references into which one are normative and which ones are informative. And I suspect that there might be a normative reference on the IEEE spec."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "Yeah. Yeah. This is, 8802dot in the 7, it's it's refund. Yeah. The the common question that will be asked repeatedly, forever, ad nauseam, is, did the working group feel they had sufficient access to the core specification. In order to review this document. So, This is this is tricky. The people who Are doing this work? Tend to feel that they obviously have, the requisite access to the document, if if people in this group trying to review this document, feel like they need to get access to that, then That's something we will have to, maybe, liaise with IEEE too. Get a get a get a review for, but, just a heads up, Eric, this is this is the main the main thing with 6 low is, like, It's always somebody else's, layer 2. And so we need to worry about being, having access to that document for review. It's not about your document. It's just about process. 1. Everything. And on this specific topic, I think that Artifreely 802 standards for free for everyone after 6 months after publication. Okay. So it will have except if you use the latest latest version, But as Eric said, could the pointer, right, to be sure? Industry. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Any any other comments And, usually, the last the last of the surprised it's the same, the kind of the test bed and the resort and the I had a paper about diabetes about that the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "this, regarding to this Yeah. Yeah. Okay, Tim. Thank you. Yeah. Okay. So, well, since I'm a golfer, I guess, Shweta, if you may 1, 2, Proceed. So just in case we are not hearing you, not sure if you are maybe speaking. I'm starting a show of hands to see if there is support in their own for adoption, and then we can take it on the mailer. K. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:08",
    "text": "We have, 9s and 1 opinion and no nor smart support. So we'll we'll take it in the mailer and then proceed with the the results of adoption. Okay. Thank you. So Is there any other common regarding this document Okay. No no other comments. Luigi, you are in the queue. Okay. Right? Thank you. Thank you. Okay. So is there maybe Anything else? Any other business? Okay. So Okay. Yeah. There was the message, from Eric on the chat, thanks to the chairs and minute taker. Thanks a lot, Stuart. And thanks everyone. So, yeah, this ends the session here. So thank you everyone for your patient. Let's continue the work. Including on the mailing list and hopefully see you all in Vancouver."
  }
]
