[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:06",
    "text": "Okay. We're one minute over time, so I'll get started on The Introductions. If you're not, you don't want to be in the media man room, This is your transcript. note 12. IETF policies are in effect, including standards process, working group process, anti harassment procedures, code of conduct coverage patents privacy policy. So if you have have not read or have or have forgotten any of these. You should be able be you should be aware that they still even if you don't remember them. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "Not really well. Beave yourself, And if you believe that someone else is not behaving himself, are encouraged to raise your concern in confidence. with Elmberts Persons, If you haven't signed into the session yet, please do so. I mean, it's unlikely that our attendee numbers will lead to a bigger room, North Not that we'll lead them, that it's nice to have It's actually necessary for the IETF procedures that we know who's in the room. and use Meadeko to join the queue and so on. Remote participants make sure your audio and video are off until you're Supposed to talk. and Using heads that it's and good practice. Resources. it's almost too late to use those. Now Pets. Now we get into the medium end business. Introduction note well scribe Again, the bash, We done the introduction. We done the note well. with undescribe. Thank you. And Does anyone wish to bash the agenda? Nope. Then we go to the next point. draft IETF. Mhmm. Yeah. Note I I made a slide for working group status. I think top level is done. haptics,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "Few issues. Multiple suffixes is not clear to me what the state is, so that's why we have meetings. And we have ideas too. for revising rules, including a draft. I don't see mark here, but Am I Chua? or not. So first item on the agenda, Last call for top level has ended We had one review, and that reviewed concluded that It was ready for IETF last call. And therefore, we have complete consensus. of all reviewers, that this should go forward as an IETF last call, which fits in with the impression I had from the You can have a meeting and the traffic on the on the mail list afterwards. So I'll do a write up and forward to the ISG for processing. Anyone wants to comment on that one? Otherwise, I'll just record that that the Let the minute show that the meeting the meeting attendees agreed with the disposition. play. Draft, the ATF medium, and haptics? We had a working group last colon version 3. Some of the some of the comments raised where Significant enough that I Be clear that we did not have consensus to put forward, but The issues seem to be obvious, sir. So We fixed them. Or With the Sami, had the had them fixed in versions 45."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "And in my opinion, we don't need another work group last call. I think we're ready. Alex says on the q, Yeah. Alexei Monica. Sorry. I read this on the plain, so I was a bit late. I think I agree with you. There are only minor issues I don't think they need another last call. I think I found another mining issue I should send to the mailing list I think one of the registration seems to actually register 2 formats and 1 template which is not what it's supposed to do. It's kind of an accident. So either it should be 2 registrations or with just one lane. Yeah. It was, like, you know, XML format, it's, like, registering XML and JSON in one media tab. like well. Mm-mm, you don't really want to be doing that. Yeah. So I'll send email on this, but Other than that, I think it's pretty ready. Great. Thank you. Let me see. I need to yet. Let me see. and we will talk to you. So That takes care of Haptics. Now for suffixes, there has been considerably more well, considerable for this working group at least. Harrow. it's And I'll leave that to Oh, dear. Yes. I have a quick WestJet, it wasn't clear from Alexie's comment what the issue was. Could someone please repeat? Alex, they promised to send it to the mail list, but they can say it now to Yep."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "It will be on list. Okay. Okay. Yep. And now let's see if I can ground the rights of presentation to Manu, Here we go. Manit, you have the floor. Thank you very much, Harold. Can folks see my screen? It's coming up Alright. So since the last IETF 1 16, there have been a number of significant changes to the suffix's specification. Most importantly, we just remove the whole concept of pipeline sing. that was throwing a wrench in the works. And we've been able to simplify the algorithms, I think, people are happier with kind of the removal of this concept of pipeline processing. the algorithms are now deterministic in all known use cases. that are in there. They don't result in unprocessable weird media subtypes anymore. we added a few more security considerations that Mark Nottingham had raised, published a version 05, with these fixes. And multiple people have reviewed it. So folks seem to be okay with the general direction except for a few very important items that have come up in the last 2 weeks or so. So now your screen share is still showing. Can you try to stop it and start the Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "You have to reaccept Ground screen. Yes. And then Is that showing? It's the so yep. We got it. It's now showing. Sorry. My audio just dropped. Is it showing or not showing? I can see it on my screen. Let's see. It's showing. Okay. Thanks. Few remaining issues. So the first question was, is this an in line update for 6838. Uh-huh. Or do we need a new RFC? I think in general, people said that This is Doing a BIS version of 6838 would be diff getting the number of reviewers that we would need would be a a difficult thing. So the suggestion here is let's we don't have the bandwidth to do RFC 6838 biz. So let's go ahead and just just publish a new RFC. So that's the first kind of proposal. The second proposal Second issue is, does the suffixes registration template need vision. Harold, you raised that. I would say, yes, it does, but I'm wondering if we can go to call and do that in a separate document. It may be that we can't do that, and we'll have to update the slits."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:04",
    "text": "So that's kind of an open question looking for feedback on that during this meeting. The third item is is the suffixes registry a specification required registry. Upon review, it is definitely specification acquired. That's how we've been operating for about a decade now in but unfortunately, the INA registry does not say that. It says expert review. It doesn't say specify education required. And so we need to do something to tell Ayanna to update the registry so that it's specification required. Item 4 is a question around whether or not the reviewers. The expert reviewers are expected to ensure subtype semantics, when structured suffixes are registered. So this was brought up by Daryl I think it's a very good thing to be concerned about. I believe, Daryl, your concern was that the expert reviewers don't wanna be in a position of having to determine whether or not a base subtype if it has a structured suffix on it. If the base subtype, the semantic between two registrations are the same. So it would be a lot to ask expert reviewers to take that on. So the suggestion here is No expert reviewers are not expected to make that determination, the change controller for the base subtype is. So, basically, this would mean that whoever registers the the base subtype, the 1st base subtype, even if it has a structured on it, that community or change controller becomes the entity, that that you need to make sure is okay with all future structured suffix registrations. The downside of doing that, of course, is that You need consensus on the base subtype. that has been argued as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "So we're looking for feedback from the group on that today. Those are the 4 items you need closure on. There are the proposals for how we get closure on it. And finally, the last question is, is there anything else that's not in the issue tracker that people are concerned about before we go into last call. So who's reviewed the draft? these are the people, Eric Martin, Vaughn, Graham, Murray, Daryl. Daryl. Bark. Robert. Roberto, Ori, and Ted. And then the question is, do we wanna go to Clearly, we can't go to last call without resolving these four items. So If there is discussion, we should probably focus on those four items. That's it. Thank you. Let's process the queue. Brenton Sundell, I am the chair of the VC working group at w3c that is instigating some of these questions. I have questions about the proposal about consensus being determined by a subtype change controller. in the specific case of the VC working group at w3c, if we were few register structured suffix, vcplusldplusjson as is being requested, and then the group goes away who then would be the change controller. So this notion of having a a sub you know, controller, it sounds good on paper, but in practice, I'm not sure how that would work, especially with the way that the w three c works. So that's That's my question. It would be w 3 c, I think. go ahead, Mark. Exactly. As a former"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "lays onto that w three c takes a change control, and it's up to them. Okay. That was Brent's Alexi? yet. Can people expand on the 4th item, the subtype semantics? I'm not I don't remember what it means, actually. Oh, maybe can people give give an example? Yes. So if you had application slash foo, Fu is the subtype. And so if you had phooplusxmlandphooplusjasonandphooplus JWT, the subtype would be Fu and whoever registered application slash foo, and then potentially the first structured suffix after that. whoever's that first change controller ends up being the change controller for application slash foo and any structured suffix. after it. Did that make sense, Alexi? I need to Yes, I need to think about that. my initial reaction was actually it might be a sidetrack node, but application/fullminotregist it at all. You might just register application slash full plus XML and plus JSON. and then application slash full has no semantic meaning. unless it's registered registered explicitly. But if you are saying if it's registered first, then registering with different suffixes kind of the same change control and I didn't know. Yes. Correct. Yeah. It's basically whoever you know, if more than, like, if application slash flu food plus XML in plus you know, Jason was registered the assumption is it's probably gonna be the same change controller and that change controller probably needs to be talk to or con conferred with doing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "sure that there's consensus for someone wants to come by and add application slash food plus SPG, for example. Right? It's just ensuring that these communities are talking to each other and ensuring that the experts in in the media type registry that are processing registrations, aren't put in the critical path of having to determine whether or not the registration is okay. hit hit, hit, hit, hit, hit, hit, hit, hit, hit, hit, hit, puts the burden back on the change controller. Okay. I think at the moment is if The only way to spot this is for designated expert to check and see if anything else with different suffix is registered. We might or might not do this. It just sort of depends. We don't really have a mechanism, so maybe we can ask Kaia and if they can signal to experts or viewers about this at least. Alright. Shall we ask, and if they can do At least then, we are aware that there might be multiple variants you know, with different, you know, syntax and then Yeah. I think being aware is probably the first necessary step. Michael. Mike Farrock here. Wanted to share some concerns, and I did put a link to an issue discussing some of this on the drafts GitHub into the chat there. I'm working on a draft right now as an editor at the within the VC working group that there is current proposal before it goes. It's not finalized yet, but could potentially rely on this and might not."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "Right? And so as an editor, we're trying to figure out what the best best path is. And one of the concerns that I see, especially based on statements that I've heard in law you know, and seen in logs from various working groups as well. No one should be able to use our data format in any encoding other than that, which we intended it for originally. And this seems like a really good mechanism to enable people to then, you know, we either say, oh, yeah. Well, you know, They're not doing it this way. They're trying to use a simpler encoding or more compact encoding, whatever else. we're not gonna allow additional registration on top of that. which then forces just a straight up registration of the new term. which then leads to more fragmentation and more trying to figure out going on. And we're already seeing a lot of this with like SD JOTS, other variations of you know, JWS things coming out and things like that. So it's a little problematic for me the way it's drafted now. And I think we need to put some good thought into this, and I'd love further way in from you know, others and experts managing this. Obviously, folks are having to manage this, so I don't wanna put additional burden on them. So we've gotta figure out what the right answer is. But right now, this feels really concerning me what's being suggested at the moment. Thank you. And speaking is as a participant. And on this point, I think that I probably need to do some more work on what exactly a procedure is It would probably have to be something like the expert reviewer Yeah. That that that The person who wants to register the 2nd suffix comes out with a statement saying that The latest chance for the first surf fix agrees with this, and that semantics are the same. And then this can be challenged by expert reviewer if it they have believed the guy is lying. Something like that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "And So we're we're now focusing on the on the that is the second subtype 3rd. a question. There are a number of others other details that I'd like to get back to but let's let's go on focusing on this. Murray. Murray, the area director for the spring group. First of all, thank you. w three colleagues for coming. This is Austin here. And I have a question for you. So rolling back a little bit, we were talking about if the group that owns a suffix distration goes away, what's pat. On the the ATF side, would roll up to the ISG. Do you have an equivalent, like, super level or how what's the roll up gonna look like over there? their the w three c is not quite as hierarchically organized as the IETF as far as I can tell. in that. There are the working groups, and then there's w 3 management, and then there's a board, and you know, the tag, and there are there are various supervisory groups. as to which of those groups would be actually engaged in responding based on the way change requests to patients work in the w 3 c if there's not a working group to handle those change requests that's just w 3 management. and that's anybody who's employed by the w three c, the staff of the w three c. there there is a technical advisory group but but but the technical architecture group, but I or there isn't anything in Yeah. There isn't anything in the process that would point to them specifically. guess I'm wondering, man. What what would you like us I to say. What would I I don't I don't wanna speak arbitrary point upwards, and I don't know where that is. So, you know, pack Come on up, Mark."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "Mark Nottingham speaking is myself, but with the experience of being other things. This would be handled by the team. That's their job. That's the the job that the community in the w three c has given them. that that community is comfortable with that. Personally, I'm sometimes uncomfortable with it, but that community has made that decision. So that's how it works. It's know, that's how but but that's up to the w three c. If the w three c wants to change that, that's them, they're the change controller. And people who are bought into that process bought into that. That's how this all works. You know? I have other thoughts which I can skip here where I can be kind of Martin and Murray, let me go what they were gonna I mean, all I wanna do is make sure that if we're referring to a vague word thing over there that it's not gibberish or nonsense. So you guys to help us specify. Thanks. that's the concept of the change of control. It is that precise as it is -- Yes. Yes. Martin. I think I'm going to say that we closed the Q on the This the is this specific question. then try to go back to the others, marking. Yes. I put myself in the queue, and I'm just using that to say a few things First, with respect to how this would be handled at the w three c. I have Well, years and years ago, handled these time graduations at the WCC. So I'm quite confident that doubles use we would be able to handle this And it's mostly the team as Mark has plain, there's also a liaison between the IATF and the WFE SIM. should make sure that the people at WCC who are now looking for these multiple suffixes. are fine with what they come up with in the draft, with respect to these"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "Yeah. overlapping subtypes, where We but we should also make sure that This doesn't just work for the w three c, but did we have also other cases potential cases covered to the extent that we can at cover them I would like to use the chance that I mean, in the queue now, to make a more general comment when I wrote the last call review, I wrote that It's almost ready for last call, but I also that there's an nothing in the day after about the registration. And I think that 10, 10, Yeah. multiple suffix thing, changes the Things that have to be careful for our registration even of single suffixes enough that essentially, We should only should do an update to 6838 I think we should coverly, has the whole everything that's about the illustration of suffixes redone carefully checked and put it in the new document to make sure that we have all the and covered Thank you. So please please be be short, actually. using quite a level of time here. Mark Mark Nottingham unable to change my height. I agree with Martin. There should be an update. I'm sorry. I I I I I replaced obsolete 6838. the whole document. Do it right, make it one resource, not some people may pick through different RFCs. when doing that update, we should restrict"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "The updated sections to the areas where we have agreed that we need to work. It's not making an overall update of everything. and maybe allow people to do an editorial pass through, though, that's, you know, if we want. we make sure the doors are closed. Thank you. Yep. Yep. Yep. But, yeah, I I feel that quite strongly. I think that Martin is on the right track there. Regarding the conflicts between, you know, different base, I guess, we're calling it now base types, which we need to talk about terminology here at some point. I I think that this is definitely not just a w 3 c issue, and I don't think we should see through that lens. It's about, you know, what does ownership quote, unquote, of a type or or change control of the type mean. and and and what that extends to. I also don't think it is restricted to multiple suffixes. This problem is there for single suffixes. So we should talk about it in those things. I think that this is kind of Another way of looking at this is is how do we avoid almost like a homograph attack where You have 2 things that look almost the same and people get confused about what they mean. We don't generally have that problem in media types because it's asking, and so the differences are quite obvious usually. But, you know, because we have structure now, there's implied semantics in the different parts of the structure. And so, you know, we have a fundamental question here. Do does application FOOD plus bar and application food plus bars, is there a connection between Most people, I think, would intuit that there is. so the question is how do we respect that? I think we had a proposal developed in the issue, which is one way to do it, which is to check with the first register. reg registering party and make sure that they're okay with it. Or if they can answer. If they're not there, we need to handle those kinds of exceptions and everything, that's fine. Another way to do it would be to say the designated experts could exercise judgment. and say, well, if this looks like an existing registered media type, do something. for for some value of something."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "Right. Right. I'm okay with that. approach to because, generally, we should trust the experts to exercise discretion. If they're not reasonable, if they don't do the right thing, there's an appeal process. and that's and that's done that in a couple other industries recently. It seems to work out okay so far. So that's that's, I guess, another approach to that. But I do think that something to say that there's a connection between those 2 media types. needs to be set. Otherwise, it's just a free for all. Yeah. Daryl? Daryl Miller. While I agree mostly with Mark Lamar said, I would request that we find a way to provide the reviewers able overlap and not I think that is going to be quite challenging. to figure out. just to go to one of the other questions with regards to does the suffixes registration template need revision. slightly related to that, is is is One of the things that I identified is There's no clear guide or I couldn't find clear guidance in 6838. that said, if IETF is a change control or does the registration template need to be in an RFC. It says it very specifically for media types. it doesn't clarify, Yeah. 4 suffixes. So if we are doing any updates to 6838. that would be a valuable clarification to make Thank you. I do hear that the expert review is expected to ensure subtype semantics."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "we are strongly of the opinion that we need a more concrete proposal and that if Jackie? Specification requires yes. And Cefix's registration template needs of Rivasion, yes, I think her I think we have understanding that The whole suffix is Regotiation procedure is really one piece, and it and it needs revising. And then On a question of Inland update, versus the new RFC that is do we replace 6838 or not? My suggestion would be that we aim to replace 6838. That's As a working mechanism, we operate with Internet drafts that say Repace this section. Repace that section. until We are ready ready to go. do the actual revision. So That's my thinking based on the debate so far. And I think We have a strong conclusion that we are not ready for work working group last call yet. So Back to back to the mainliest, then issue tracker. Would would would you see having working group last calls on those individual up Yes. Or would you hold yeah. Okay. date documents just to kinda nail consensus on each one? So I I see the The two documents that we now have consensus on might actually roll to IFC just because delaying them for another"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "36912 24 months while we work on this issue. seems wrong. So But but once we roll 68 or 8, then those could easily roll in. Wella, Thank you, Manu. I'm going to revoke your screen permission so they're taking back get back to my my my The minivan slides She me see where I'm in, haptics, suffixes, And now it's time to for Mister Nottingham, draft Nottingham, medium and standards tree. Mark, I'll leave a mic to you. yeah, this is a draft? A draft? A draft? I wrote, I think when I was preparing my slides this week, I forgot to prepare slides for this, but I don't think it really needs them. This is just a proposal for a drop in replacement for section 31 in in URC. talk about how you register excuse me. What the requirements for registering media types in the standard tray are. and it's talking as we've discussed on Weston in our last meeting. that we allow from from recognized standard bodies, but we also allow registrations from what I think I'd call community organizations or community efforts. that have certain properties, and there's a list of properties that they might have. discussed, and I think we can probably refine a bit raise my head. But, yeah, that pretty much it. And and we've discussed this a fair amount. This is just writing it down. and it's in the model that you were."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "talking about, which is this is a an a draft that proposes a drop in replacement part of of the RFC so we can hammer away on it and then figured out. So comments on that one? Hi. I am not that familiar with the tools. So soon. the pultras. I just pull pulled started. It started. Yep. Michael, Yes. Thanks, Mike Paroc here. I did not raise hand, and I could comment as to why but would be fine with adoption as long as we have a good answer for the following situation. So as one of the co chairs of the credentials community group over at 3 c, which seems to be problematic of late. the as well as doing more work here at IETF. we have a tendency for over eager new participants and things that are kind of in the incubation phase. and, like, we're kicking the tires around to think that they're further along than they are. And so as long as we have good in there, and I'm assuming that will be dealt with. But I wanted to just get it on the record I know Mark well enough to know that we're gonna wind up somewhere sane. I just wanna make sure that that's fully covered. Yeah. That that's definitely a concern for I can I see that in many of the registries that that I service next for, you have very eager people who think that registration equals adoption and look I'm on the Internet now. and that's not good enough. So that's that that list of criteria is kinda tailored to try and avoid that happening. If we need to tell her it's more, I'm all for that because I hate those registrations. Yeah. I probably should say that on my mind, but in one little clarity because I I thought the draft was actually pretty good. I mean,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "covering some good cases that are very valid, right, especially as we look at things coming about from less technical communities, and, like, I do a lot of work in Agriculture, Right? So we see folks that know, or trying to figure some of this stuff out. But one of the cases is around, like, independent implementations. Well, I will I I saw one the other day where someone said, oh, we've got these 17 supporters of this thing, and it's all independent implementations. And I go in and I look under the hood and it's all one library. Right? And and so this is not an limitation. And this is actually not helpful and frankly not helpful to the because it's inflating the, you know, possible importance of this. So these are situations we need to make sure are fully covered. Yeah. I I agree. It's it's it is gonna put a little work on the and we should consider that because they're gonna be the ones who have to process this and also handle the blowback if something that's really integral about it. I think by the same token, look at our Right? is not Right. Right. And that's squatting is definitely a concern. by the same token, look at the criteria we use for URI scheme registration, which is arguably a much more pivotal and and locked in kind of thing on the web, you know, and we just free free free for hey. Go for it. Yeah. So I'm I'm concerned, but I'm I think we can balance that. At the end of the day, it's just a line in a file that, you know, doesn't mean anything, and we all know that. So Yep. It's Maria and Mark. Just to clarify for this document, is this intended to be an update to 6838, which we would then miss with this part of it, or is this the beginning of 6838 this, or What are you envisioning? What I what I see in that document is an update to 6838. This is a from a replacement voice sessions, A section of it. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:05",
    "text": "Sorry. Yes. Sorry about people. My preference would be that this document would feed into a revision of 6838. that would, you know, hoe whole cloth. Yeah. Thank you. I cannot add myself to the queue. in the light client until you close the poll. Also, do I have to press end session to do that? Yes. Yep. Okay. So In regards to a trusting expert to evaluate, whether there are 17 independent implementations. I'm sorry. I don't really want to be doing this. This is quite a lot of work. It's So -- I I don't know what the answer is, but asking community or mailing lists saying in our Is this really true that there are 17 independent implementations? Can somebody help us out this sort of question and getting useful answers, that would be helpful. Reminder that adoption does not need the document to be perfect. It just needs to be concerns the step. this is a good starting point. Starting point. if I could respond, Mark, nottingham to Alexi. But but but we should understand kind of, I think, the parameters roughly, it would be good to have you know. If we can turn the recording off, everyone. I run I I'm the service expert for a couple of registries that are fairly high volume, and we apply criteria like this a little more informally than specified here. But you know, yes, we do have people who come along and say, I have all this. or or look at my wonderful effort, and they get rejected. And the path there is that, you know, you you can do it on a bit of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "field. Do a tiny bit of research. It takes 5 minutes. And if it feels wrong, you reject it. And if there come back and give you more evidence, then you can revise your opinion. This is why we like using GitHub because it gives us forum to do that in. At the end of the day, if they're taking too much of your time, you say, no. That's it. not gonna do it. And if it's really a problem, they can appeal it, and the ISG can figure it But that seems to work so far. I know there are failure modes there, but it works so far. Thank you. I think we record a Revcon seems to have a rough consensus among the participants to adopt. So I'll send out a note to the The decision is that I'll send out a note to the mailing list asking for opinions on adopting the draft and If there's no not the ground swell against it, we'll just adapt it. Let me see. Can I now have to figure my way back to this to the sheet to the Shame pillow the slides again. Yeah. You can tell that I'm not doing this every day. Okay. his station view. There we go. So Now we have I made a separate slide for the question of 6838 is or patch documents. And only proposals we have so far are modifying specific parts of 6838. Yes. 6838. And we there are basically three ways we can go about this."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "We can publish a separate talks that update 6838. That's what I was suggesting to to to do with top level? We can process as drafts Stop. Processing them before shipping them off to the ISG. And there, And once we have consensus on all the pieces that we want, put into 6808. We do a merge pass. We actually had a a volunteer for editing editor on the list. and Or we could start now on and saying that we just create the 68 to ABS and everything has to go in as bad as to that. So My strong and position is laptop level and possibly haptics. Go to RFC. and then start And then I just start on Either process as drafts or start on 6 8th 30th 30th is now. This guess, Martin, you're first on the queue. Can you hear me? Yep. Okay. I just had a look at 6838 and it's about 30 pages. And The Suffolk stuff is About one page plus about two pages for registration. The top level stuff is probably I haven't easily found that, but it's probably something on the page, And so so I think we would Sorry about the noise. We would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "do a new document for changing only maybe something like 10, 15%, maybe a little bit more. And Also, this working group in my opinion, although it's nice to see 20 people attending here, my impression is not that it's a very And active and engaged working group, So I would Definitely, think that we should tie to Make is documents like top level and so on. And, I mean, haptics is also In theory, at least, involved because the document also has at least text, up to multipart quality in there, So we could if he really wanted, we could also fold in half big but I think it would be just too much work for a 2 small Working group. So I think separate IRCs that say update at least for the moment, should be and at the way to go. Thank you. Mark. Harold, were you thinking that if We let top level good RFC now. And then we started on 6838 biz. With the top level work eventually being incorporated into that abyss. Or would it stay separate? I would think think that it would that at least the negotiation procedure part of it would -- Mhmm. merch. Okay. the I don't know if we would want to have the whole history section. Okay. And sure."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:04",
    "text": "But that's something I could decide later. So it would obsolete that previous urgency, perhaps. Yeah. Okay. okay with that. Yeah. Yeah. Murray. When we charted this originally, I think the vision was I understand it doesn't always work out way. But the vision was that top level would go through, and then which would enable haptics while we develop all the rest of this stuff. So, I mean, find the things that worked out the way that they did. But if we want to try to stick to that. Finish top level, let haptics go in parallel to starting up 60 838 biz. So I guess it's a hybrid approach to what you're talking about. Manu, Yeah. I'm I'd I'd prefer to do what Martin says, and I think what you Harold are saying. Let's get these done separately and then do 6838 biz. If the group group really wants to do 6838 biz, it doesn't seem like a lot of so I'm happy to edit that document and put it together if speed things up, That said, I think the better approach is let's do these things separately and then you know, get it out there and then do 6838 biz. The one caveat with doing 6838 this is, I think, what Mark said before, we should ensure that we focus on the sections and don't get into a state where we're now rewriting the entirety of 6838. Right? It's just as people find problems, there's a chance that the scope of work gets larger and larger and we probably don't wanna do that. So if we feel like that's probably going to end up opening. there's a strong support for let's do these things separately and once we're sure about how we're gonna update 6838. Only then should we open up the 6838."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "this possibility. That's it. That's it. Thank you, Mark. Sorry. I I I forgot to say what I wanted to say, which was My understanding here is the plan that it seems to be emerging is continue with these as separate documents. We get them to a last call working group last call state. and then we kind of do a magical combine and publish that. Take that to the ISG. don't publish separate RFCs except for perhaps tough level. on haptics. Yes. Okay. That seems to be it. That that's the plan that's emerging? think that's a good plan. Here what people are saying about resources. The worst possible outcome would be to have People who want to register in new media types to have to refer to 15 different documents to figure out what the hell is going on. that is a user hostel thing. So let's not do that. But by doing it doing this this kind of this, but only a couple of sections approach. we should acknowledge the rest that it gets to the ISG, and some Area director. apologies my language says, but what about that? you know, and and and points to a section of the document that we haven't updated. We might have to work with that somehow. So it might be good if our area direct Sorry. Our lovely area director here. That was egregious. I agree. if our area director could perhaps smooth the rails a little bit here and and get some tacit agreement that This is the nature of this update. Thank you. The promise has been noted. John. I I'm I'm a little bit nasty to step in on this because while I've been trying to follow the work I am to do a very good job of it, but Be speaking at my capacity as coauthors of 6838. and the only surviving author of its ancestor 2048,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "be careful if you're gonna open 6838. be careful what you wish for, There are dragons on all sides of the path there's hybrid fragments, and And I would strongly encourage you to get the things that you think are critical on. done and published and wrapped up. before you You take on 6838, and then you think very hard about whether you get the right participation in the working group. for opening that document which is fundamental, not just the kinds of users, this working group is apparently been disgusting. But to a number of other things on the Internet, some of which are not ideal for special occasions. Thanks. Thank you. Warren duly noted. Here, they're big dragons. Okay. We seem to be ending up with the consensus that Our finished documents can go to RFC publication. Our in flight documents go to working group last call when can we are sure that we have a working group consensus on them. And once we have set of changes we want to make to 6838 will seek assurance from the ISG that it's okay to publish all the unchanged pieces unchanged. then and then and then publish 6838 that consists of The current 68 to rate plus the pieces that we have decided to change. That seems like a plan. And now I have this lovely slide at the end of the end of the session. Sorry. Can I just add a quick comment. And Oh, you're not alone. In in regards to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:04",
    "text": "Murray, helping out with smoothing the path. key in our I don't know what his plans are. He might not be area director. By the time this Document As in I suspect, it's quite likely. It's you know, either will take too long or, you know, he will step down or whatever. or both. No. What the The only other mechanisms we have for actually helping with this is to say it in charter. So maybe we should re charter you know, try to say that at least, you know, future. It will have future area director to point at the chart and say, look, that was a explicit decision. Agree Good point. We'll take that to the lists. Martin. Yes. I was in the queue before Alexie, and I just want to say, and I'll I wanted to say exactly what Alexei was saying If we want to do that, put it in the charter. Good point. So Put plans into trailers. Brent. Brent. Brent Zendel, in light of the Not quite ready for last call status of the structured suffix is draft. Is there advice that we at w3c could get from this group as far as a recommendation for the types of the media types that we seek to register Should we be super hopeful and be like, hey. Let's just do the star suffolk is thing or would be best to be conservative and just go for 2 for now. If if there's advice that can be given, we'd rightfully hear it. And if I knew what advice to give it,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "to give. I would give it. But There seems to be absolute and nobody that we should not use multiple suffixes. The only question is how to describe what we want to mean when we have multiple surfaces. And there, l, under understanding in detail what you what you want is actually a critical piece of it. This discussion about the LD component, it was really illustrative of I started scratching my head. So Manu. Manu. Yeah. It's a bit of a follow-up from what Brent was asking. I think the the concern here is that we may scare people away from from thinking about using the structured stuff like stuff like stuff. So for example, you know, the verifiable credential, working group at w3c is very close to entering candidate recommendation with their off. in not entering last call, might give some people pause because they don't know the details of what's going on here. So they don't They don't know that The thing we're talking about are the registration procedures and the registration templates. It might come across as a you know, There's as as you said, Harold, I don't think anyone's saying don't use structured suffixes. just trying to get the details right. So all that to say, you know, I I think, you know, the general advice to the the anyone looking at pulling structured topics is is it's gonna happen. know, if you think you're gonna do it, it's fine to plan on it happening. but we have to get the registration procedures, the templates, you know, all that stuff. down. That's it. Yep. Yep. muck,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:05",
    "text": "Yeah. I think with the shape of the plan that's emerging, the best we could do would be to have an explicit recharter that says multiple suffixes in it. And then to have a consensus call, on the contents of the document. because I think almost all the remaining issues are not really about multiple start structured suffix is there about things in that galaxy that are slightly related. So between the charter language and an explicit consensus call as a precedent. at the question is if that gives you enough comfort, I think. Alexa? So it occurred to me. So that If we decide that multiple is going to be last called and then fold it into a bigger document. existing request for registrations with multiple suffixes cannot be registered until RFC is published. Are people okay with the delay? August for also treating suffixes as As a pub yeah. Publish it as an RFC and then, you know, do a base and fold it in. But So Just the thought. Daryl. I I think there's a distinction the comment was made that nobody is objecting to multiple suffixes. I think the concern is multiple suffixes or single suffixes with different semantics. that's that's the what how much can a suffix change semantics? of the underlying media type. Yep. That's a concern. Mark, I'm not sure that that's the case that that they can't be registered."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "My recollection is is that the rules the syntax, syntactically. A suffix can can include a plus character. I think I think you're right. So know, there was always questions about, oh, what does this mean and everything, you know, we need to clarify that. Sorry? So that maybe we should look into that because if there's a loophole, that everybody is comfortable as using, then We're good. We're good. I I don't recall it saying that you can't. I remember her I think there's nothing that says can't have 2 plus signs. It's just that the meaning of 2 is ambiguous. It's not not clear. So Are we okay with a few trucks driving through that hole while we figure out what shape it should take or I mean, I what does the suffix document say about these today? Does it does it declare the semantics? Does it try to declare semantics? Go ahead. Go ahead. I I think the the expert or -- It's not it's not a designated expert in the process. But the the reviewers could take the current consensus into account when they're making the decision. Yep. Okay. So have a growing QN -1 minute left. So I'm closing the queue now, if I can figure that's right then. David. I believe the current text says only what is after the final plus would be a separate A suffix, So I imagine someone could register one today, but the interpretation today would be that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:03",
    "text": "the the part to the left of the final plus would be their base type. found. Yeah. Daryl, last word, Then we're Okay. all set, and we have minutes. And we will I will send out A couple of write ups to the ISG As soon as I get get them written. Yep. So you very much for coming, and I will see each other I'm a net analyst. Thank you."
  }
]
