[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:15",
    "text": "[Music] you get about a real nice man I\u0027m a chose to be Miss [Music] the best part is yes because building that should stop [Music] [Music] let\u0027s see you didn\u0027t yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:40",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] we need a note-taker and a jabber scribe volunteers before we attempt volatile I would love for you to do heater pad it seems to be up right now so yes [Music] cannot get business beneficial you prepared / b /o [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:57",
    "text": "did you get it so you can just click on the link in the agenda I did that Network are you are you in the one that\u0027s linked off of them [Music] in the meantime while she\u0027s doing that we\u0027ll go ahead and get started this is the sack I\u0027m working group meeting mersa know you had it but they\u0027re just each so we have a note-taker we have an ether sky Jeffress crying wow it is so the last meeting last meeting of the wake yes did you find it Nancy excellent all right so let\u0027s get going this is the note well that you will have acknowledged when you registered and that applies to this meeting as well as others this is our agenda for the day a number of these will be really short status updates our objective here is in particular for all of the working group documents to be sure that we had sort of a next step out loud for each of those is there any agenda bashing no all right so so our first item was the Rowley software descriptor we were not sure if our that Steven was going to make it to this call we should shout out to give him so Steven is not here and Dave altameyer not here because even is getting married and and he said it was on Friday right so it\u0027s today now so Friday is in any event he\u0027s getting "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "married and while he was originally optimistic that he would have lots of spare time we were skeptical so anyway there\u0027s a small update that he wants to make and then it should be ready for working your blast call and I think the the mimetype issue has been clarified and that just needs to be rolled back into the document so we should be ready to go the next item on the agenda is architecture we also heard from Adam who\u0027s not here there was an update to that document I believe in September 7th of September excellent so we don\u0027t really have anything more beyond that except we would really like people to read that and comment on it and probably at the next virtual inter and we\u0027ll see if we can have some substantive conversations on the next step for that document terminology I don\u0027t know if you want to say hi this is Hank on the concise update regarding terminology pending the adoption of the current architecture document we are postponing major refactoring of the terminology because it would not make sense if the change in a core concept which I hope we don\u0027t so I would reinforce Karen\u0027s recommendation to read please the current version of the architecture and maybe even remember how the old one looked like I dig it up from the archive because it\u0027s expired and then assess if this is addressing what you need it is more concrete it has very specific component roles in it and terminology wise we are still on the modular whole concept that was initially proposed so this is easy to specialize a generic term it\u0027s hard to generalize a specific term so I think that there\u0027s and there\u0027s not a big challenge to adopt the terminology document through the architecture but maybe we want to stay a little bit extensible and that again I have not really read about in the architect yet so that is the most important part where my terminology comes in because if you want to extend something you have to know why and where and how the semantics are placed so that is I think the my request added to the I\u0027ll give you of the architecture if you\u0027re not satisfied with the semantics they\u0027re like I don\u0027t know what\u0027s assessed here and I don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:00",
    "text": "know what the outcome is and I don\u0027t know what the workflow should look like that is a fundamental issue with an architecture document and please highlight that and maybe have a look at the terminology there are some description of that so maybe some of that could go back into that document I think yeah that\u0027s my concise update on terminology okay so my my concise summary of what you just said is we should terminology will be revisited in more depth once we get it once we talk about architecture yeah we have to yeah be sure that\u0027s the way we\u0027re gonna go right that\u0027s that\u0027s basically it yes okay and you can just stay there cuz cuz that\u0027s lights just in time but yeah so we created an update there\u0027s no about concise off identifiers a basis for the variation of target end points because they are at least semantically one half of it is software the other heart hath speakers hardware components and we had want to use the concise of identifiers to identify the software inventory and its characteristics and semantic interconnected as we are concise of identifiers next slide and actually we are preparing for working group last call as only one remaining issue there are three issues open two of them are only open for final review so if anyone has a problem with me closing it speak out in the next week otherwise I will actually close them the remaining issue is a very specific representation of media in that is originating from ISIL spec text which is let\u0027s say open-ended and nobody really could explain to me what the effect of purpose is so I included an example of how this is a phrase at the moment so there are expressions and they interact with other expressions and error a bps associated with that so I guess it\u0027s a conditional language it was relatively easy to convert that to CDT area next slide please so that\u0027s the CDD a representation of the media attribute for concise often divides I guess nobody who\u0027s really ever read that I should Raph was familiar with how semantics of software components work like we can make no sense of this and so in essence it is up to the office to vet this validity that\u0027s the only remaining issue here and [Music] yeah so I this is just to show how a structured version of this looks like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "next slide please and yeah in order to the most recent draft of this with this language yeah okay yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s as though the media is hard to parse I really accept that even then the originals isida document it\u0027s hard to get what what this is about so far doing last call there are as you can see some tiny details you have to do so we are reading the extraversion schema that is in the and our considerations we proposed a entity role registry I gave examples here so texts suffer text I have a creator of the tech itself of a software sales or semantic to software components that are entities we want to have a registry for that we also want to have a registry for interconnectedness of components again yeah some software requires other software or recommends other software also precedes it patches etcetera etc so this is another type of semantic interconnective that are links there is an existing one that is semantically different so I think the Ayana will grant us a separate registry but this up vienna i think it would be an a discussion and then there the very obvious ones we are creating a media type here because we want to convey at v rhtp for example is Roley we are creating a corresponding co-op content format registration registry entry which is switch plus see bore there is a interesting problem here because switch + XML has to be semantically equivalent and therefore bidirectionally translatable from seaboard to xml and vice versa if that is not the case we cannot call it switch placebo but have to have call it goes with the + implies absolute semantic equivalence that we made sure to make this provide the basis for this by cutting out every extension that is not mentioned in the I suspect for example we had appendix a appendix about firmware a representation the ISO does not have anything like that we just added an extension point for other resource collections and will do from were in another draft we covered this in suit we hope that the manifest of the suit working group will be a feasible resource collection type for this and if that happens we have high synergy with this huge working group so that\u0027s my actually hope in any case we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:03",
    "text": "are starting with C war in order to test this and if it\u0027s not possible we will go with Cosway it same goes for the coop content format which requires Amir type registration it\u0027s a precondition prerequisite so to speak and it is again then for co-op applications for passive or and we have a explicit seaboard data item that is the concise of identifiers and you need a magic number for that to identify this so everybody who can from the top of the head translate SKS key integer representation of X will see that this magic number is means Swit and Marisa pointing to a map construct and it will define the semantics of a concise soft identifier so these three items are standard registrations and the three first only for registry so this is actually a lot of I\u0026R considerations but all of them are feasible and then we have reusable semantics for other work in this domain because some software especially film might require a specific habitat and so there\u0027s reuse value in this next slide please and that\u0027s basically it so we are going with the final version after Oh 8 it\u0027s hopefully oh 9 will be the candidate for working of last call and my request to the chairs is that we if we are indicating that we are done that we will request on the list start of last call and proceed from there and yeah then if anybody has questions or comments about this process or what I just said please speak out at the moment the chairs are discussing so I\u0027m waiting for that I know but I\u0027m if anybody listens it is not the case but to say well no actually we were discussing whether we needed more review before we did the working group last call but I think it\u0027s been around for a while so maybe have the review yeah we involved everybody who is familiar with the ISO specification for software identifier text and we got no negative feedback we got a few comments on how to structure some of the values which is basically the basis for this was they are only there was only textual definition there was no real tables for that was implicitly captured in a specification texts so English text always leaves room for interpretation so that was the only place where we had "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "to be really careful I think all of that was covered by Dave in a final polish and inquiry by him but I think Dave should comment on this so I will ask him to give a comment on the list on this and then yes I would affirm your assumption but it can only be really sure that it has been reviewed by the I suspect office if dave says okay so to repeat what I think I heard we have an updated draft you haven\u0027t you know one more issue and you want to get and in addition to that you want to get Dave to confirm that the ISO folks have read this yep so there\u0027ll be one more update yeah and then we can go to work in your last call this is my plan and assumption yes okay do we have a rough timeline for that next update I think it is very possible to do this this year but speaking from experience there are some there\u0027s some late but there was some latency in the recent past so but still in effectively this alike are like four working days okay thank you yeah I\u0027m not gonna hold your feet to the fire I was just curious what\u0027s in your head about what you know no I think worst-case scenario it\u0027s like like for time eight hours and okay thank you okay so thank you any query I have extensive question for clarification that\u0027s the third murder or this kind of schemer and can this kind of thing be used by by network device oh it\u0027s only for the PC and the software system software management right um a more complex network device it deploys a that\u0027s let\u0027s call it a firmware blob but if you\u0027re looking at it closely it\u0027s a file system with a lot of files in it and recently modern network equipment basically the Linux running a lot of software so the more modern items the more bigger items you see the more applicability is them smaller they get involved more it\u0027s actually firmware without multitasking in specific from our parts we require the resource extension that will be crafted in suit so my answer is yes you can use this and for most bigger devices that are from chronic events I switches and routers and emerging but bigger things are running on Linux most certainly even the proprietary software that is using a file system that is the prerequisite for users cosmid can use this format already this model but if you\u0027re going down to the level 2 bootloader firmware nothing else we have to wait for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:04",
    "text": "output of this suit working group but they are working relatively fast I think so next year there might be a tangible manifest and they even acknowledged that this is converging with concise off identifiers it is even already mentioned in the data manifest written by Brendan today so next year there will be with an additional draft also small components like IOT devices down to class one be able to represented the others yes thank you for your answer yeah okay sir so I\u0027m more interested maybe I can do our on the review yeah yeah sure I\u0027m done okay okay thank you you\u0027re excused so Hank I am sorry I wasn\u0027t actually playing there was actually one more item on the agenda I just wanted to give us a quick on the ECP what\u0027s next for it this is Hank from the floor how should I know I am NOT an author the endpoint compliance profile is I am okay yeah we just confused ourselves okay that\u0027s why not something I\u0027m staying here on the floor okay so with that hi everyone my Pam from Hawaii today I want to introduce the updates our draft the take motor of network infrastructure device state plan security baseline and the first day is a quick recap the hour the purpose of our draft is trying to define a minimal set of configuration and the status parameters of the security related functions and the service or network infrastructure device "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:04",
    "text": "and this configuration and the status can be collected by the second collector and consumed by second evaluator and so the security postures of this security of the network devices can be recorded and they evaluated in general the security baseline can be divided into three layer three layers the application layer the network layer and the infrastructure layer and the network layer can be also divided into three plans the control plan that they play and the management plan in our dropped our draft a is about as a paid plan security baseline and as the updates of our from version 2 to version 3 is mainly focused on the data modification of the tape model structure in the new version we reorganized as a data model structure of the security functions you know classified away the security function can be classified at you several sub security functions and each sub security function is consists of several configurations and standards which which are have which have the same feature and are closely related example here is a layer two protection function and it was classified that you make leave me the furnishing and the traffic stop surprise function and as a Mac limited function is consist of bulimic limit in the face of my kilometer and etc the the Mac limit has the bulimic limit and in the face manga limiter can also configure the maximum Mac entries the right Oh Mac learning and some other functions but the difference is a key the Mac limit the villa Mac limiter is based on the villa ID and the interface Mac limiter is based on the interface name and the traffic surprise is similar here are two examples like the first example is the layer 2 protection or the difference is as below the the left hand is there in the previous version you can see all all nodes are all below or under the Mac limit node and it is less organized the right hand is a new version as I just introduced it looks much better the second example is is a DHCP snooping function it also has a similar modification in the in the left hand as before you can see the sample function is under the configuration "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:06",
    "text": "configuration level nodes and after modification I leopard I leveled up all the sub sub function and so the if you want to add delete or modify a sub function out of other sub function will not be a effector about the future work we will continue optimizing the date model and complete as a young modules we also seek more comments and courses thank you any questions comments is it how many people have read this draft reading would be overstating it but I\u0027m following them because they\u0027re young modules and I have a comment on this so in net Kahn finally maybe a little bit too late but finally the event notification this is a subscribe notification and the yang push our drafts become working book last call and then this information because it is based on yang data store structures could be used to create yang telemetry so that would eliminate the need to pull these some of these some of us are writable but if they are providing information on a regular basis and are prone to changes in periodic or sporadic chain manners then you can subscribe to specific subtrees of the module and have this as message standards pushed to your second collector and as the eliminates the need to yeah well overhead of periodic falls which is a nice feature I think and if you have something really important to communicate you can even create specific notification statements and the yang module to have stuff that you always want a collector to subscribe to the data tree module can be big it can be used for configuration for intend and all other flavors that nmda provides but the notification statements are very specific subsets of information you can hard code into the module that are most certainly intended to be telemetry sent to the second collector and that could be of use to all modules and yank this is not limit this commit is not limited to these specific set of young modules is a basically a good thing for every second day later keg "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:06",
    "text": "module Hank just a just for your comments I I need a little clarification you mean that yeah we know that Netanyahu has defied this we\u0027re a new sub pop and push in Canada and it is almost published yes we we also want to reuse them because I remember in the very beginning of this draft of this series of chat we our a very initial idea is that if it\u0027s only about the security stages and configuration collection actually the yarn push Department anything\u0027s it\u0027s a most suitable for us so so of course we are learning of the Numa Canada and I think in the future ocean of the draft we can use that we can change our our our our document to align to that McCain in a based on that we Canada but I are not very clear what do you mean is that the content here is not useful or something have you may have you been this know if there\u0027s some configuration sub twist yeah they were write a book so it does not make a lot of sense to get something pushed to you unchanged you just wrote yourself into the tree okay that does not in most cases it doesn\u0027t make much sense to if you do a update to a tree if you\u0027ve write something to into a node then if you subscribe to that node you will get telemetry that you just wrote that but you know because I just wrote it so the subscription to the trees are typically filtered either by sub sub tree sub expressions which would not be enough for complex writeable notes structures all we are XPath filters and X fast with us would be in this case required if depending on how your structure the tree if you have a one-half of the three is about configuration settings and another path of the branch of the tree would be read-only and you could to a substrate subtree subscription to all of that if you just want specific parts of that like I don\u0027t know my certificate change on the data plane I got a report is a bird or a flapping event or something like that then I would subscribe to those notes specifically we are separate subscriptions that are measured measured bundled subscriptions and then that that get to you pushed on change for example so it is not feasible to subscribe to a complete tree of the writable notes in there because typically you use these nodes to set settings and you know that you\u0027re just doing that would create "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:07",
    "text": "arbitrary telemetry that is not useful for just create volume and I think volume and scaling the down is a big yes thank you I I got your point but I just want to say that although our initial idea is that we want just want to specify the security stages and the changes to to make them as a telemetry and collector and monitoring the device network devices security status but in factored in current draft maybe if our for we we don\u0027t we haven\u0027t the worry we haven\u0027t clearly differentiate what party is configuration partner and what party is elementary or the state your part actually they are they are together they are you know a draft so so but but those content all those motor are we think are useful aware either because they all about the network devices security configuration and the security status so I think the problem for us to be solved is that maybe we should differentiate it and we\u0027re clearly and the configuration is configuration and the stadium\u0027s monitoring in stages monitoring so for the state of the morning during part I think we should the follow the net conf push me Canada and take the announced that Elementary and connection but I still think that the leftist configured in part it\u0027s also useful but I am not sure whether it should be here or should it be net mode on that convoking group yes that that\u0027s a question always there so yeah we yeah we want to hear more otherwise about it from working group chair from any guys I don\u0027t have a good answer for that yeah I got the question and I think there\u0027s some conversation about where do where the new yang models belong at this point "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:07",
    "text": "hello Jessica from Huawei I\u0027m going to present to the reason updates for security a baseline drafter of network device managing plane so first disk a from Huawei Jessica thank you and so first a brief recap this draft defines a minimal set of security controls and the status that how widely widely used in current a network network devices and this these configurations and the status can be used for network of devices security posture assessment assessment and the we define the content into five parts of the ministration security system management security pod security log security and the file security and as for the updates since the last idea meeting for the for the whole camp for the whole content we we we removed the content that try to cover all agency issues and only focused on the recommended secure secure protocols and the thanks for the comments and suggestions in the mini list and for this version were many updated Azure the ministration security patch and system management the security patch for for these two packs will reduce the young models let defining in the existing RFC is our drafts actually make some modifications are to some generations of the young module mmm-hmm because because because the collection of the security posture and the device configuration is different and so we so we removed some hats there the config configure configuring they came materials such cannot be seen because we do not use this content when we collect the devices secure security posture and the other updates is about updating the queries corresponding your modules and other editorial updates so for our next steps we will update the remaining patch of the structure and are also discussed with other vendors to refine this data model so your comments are warmly welcome thank you any questions for Jessica okay thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:09",
    "text": "alright thank you so we received a request from the automated secure IT security folks but we never actually got slides did are they here there\u0027s somebody here to address this okay maybe that\u0027s why we never got the slides no it was it no no it was a specific yeah we didn\u0027t put the full text on the agenda this vehicle vehicle automated with the compressed paths for for Cerf it contains so in any event that there was a request but a couple weeks ago we put it on the agenda but they\u0027re not here and we haven\u0027t received slides so if you look on the agenda page the posted agenda not not our shortened slide version it has the link to the document so I don\u0027t I think the revelant relevance to sockem was uncertain and but in any event they requested agenda time we gave it to them and they\u0027re not here so that\u0027s okay so I wanted to go back very briefly the ECP because I sort of I did actually get a quick update or and we just weren\u0027t we both lost it here so any in any event we did follow up with Danny about what the status of ECP was and he does have some changes that he wants to post with respect to terminology as well as to integrate some of Adams text and he\u0027s looking to do another round of updates in another round of review and then see where we go next so we did our homework we just forgot our homework so so at this point we\u0027re at the any other business part of the agenda and Oh Brett "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:15",
    "text": "we thought we would put you on the spot you did a little bit of work at the hackathon we just want to hear a tiny bit about it and this might be rumor a few hi yes so I created a sack um and Friends table and I actually did some work on Rolly so which is really you know yeah so so you did a sacrament Friends table and that was the only one there cuz no one else I came this time so I felt really lonely and so I didn\u0027t have any friends and then a couple other people came and we talked about other stuff and you know worked on some of the DTN pieces but I work on some Rolly pieces okay at we were just at a little bit later we\u0027re gonna ask about I think in the previous hackathons have done a nice job of helping focus and move sack and work forward and so I was just trying to keep that since I wasn\u0027t that I I didn\u0027t even go into the room this time so yeah literally I was by myself on my own table and and as I put you know sockem and then friends and then please come and friends and and no one came well thank you but you don\u0027t even have to minute that Nancy I just was and apologies for putting you on the spot we just we knew that you had done something related to sockem and we were right yeah and and deeply appreciate it help is always deeply appreciated so is there any other any other any other business all right so way ahead in the mile Working Group the XMPP grid is submitted to iesg yep [Laughter] right these way ahead these are the items that are listed in our charter still which you know so we can probably do some updates on there but two we have working group last call on coast with which I actually feel like we\u0027re we\u0027re getting close I\u0027ve gone through the last draft it doesn\u0027t seem to be that much "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:16",
    "text": "missing I think ECP I didn\u0027t I haven\u0027t kept up with the rate of change for for Danny\u0027s production so I need to do more reading there but hopefully folks can do some more reading there I\u0027d like more reviewers obviously Danny\u0027s gonna do some more changes but then we get into things that I think are a bit more fuzzy well Roley software descriptors I think yes we were according to Steven and and I and I\u0027ve read that we\u0027ve just been waiting for that I Anna media-type registration I think that\u0027s done so I think we can cross that off so that gives us architecture and then as we look further down the list things that I\u0027m not so sure about at this point where we stand I see some puzzled looks in the room but we chairs we\u0027d really like some input from the room as to you know what what are you guys thinking about this list what who\u0027s willing to contribute what where do we stand okay this is Hank talking about young push we once had an information model and without sorry it is expired so without that we don\u0027t have the information elements to construct the envelope for a standard yank push notification statement that would then be able to incorporate everything we define for yang models or find interesting for from other young models to be pushed we aesthetic notifications for second and so if we want to go ahead with that either we do a arbitrary data model so to speak we are the yang modeling language or we go back to the information model and fix that up first before the so I personally I like the the formal flow of having the information that means first and then going with the data model but that\u0027s stalled so that\u0027s that\u0027s my comment on the last item but also there was a other let\u0027s call it blocker and there was a heart delay on working group last call init conf so this is finally out of the way so giving that I have time again at some point in my life I could start a data model without "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:17",
    "text": "information model and then we do can do it the other way around but I cannot give guarantees how far this work will go before the next meeting son yeah I mean we weren\u0027t really looking for guarantees we were just looking for some discussion on charter items that we\u0027re the idea is that yang has so much semantics defined there\u0027s so many things out there that are defined by yang models and some of them are interesting ii to be circumcised I\u0027m a tree and if we have the second statement concept defined and the information had the information model so if we have a standard notification envelope like and there comes other complimentary work like the bundled messages structure that is that I\u0027m a co-author of annette conf and with that structure we can create a standard second envelope with metadata in it like this changed at that point this is relevant to this device this is relevant to this post process etc etc if the device knows this or just keep this MP and make a rather raw telemetry output it\u0027s it\u0027s absolute have a very scalable envelope for notifications this is specifically tied to second it would be an augment to the message spun the definition that will be produced in that conf and with VR this argument we would be able to use literally every existing yang module on a device to get second tailored telemetry based on yang modules that is the core concept of the yang post transfer mechanism that I personally as a potential offer that it hasn\u0027t even done a 0-0 draft yet envisioned so that would simplify a lot stuff for I think it\u0027s called panic because there\u0027s our network equipment devices and those have the months and I\u0027ve developed for that and then so we can make use of those we are that generic sacrum glue draft yeah I think I hear good news anchor with you just right here after quickly we can help you that that can be a good container for four I think I did it for our information you know I\u0027m elope and we can work on this direction actually I I want to say that we have updated our our security airport a network to a security post q88 motor to after for several motion if you look at those "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:17",
    "text": "draft actually the content industry after its reality with stable and we we we have some kind of we have some sort of confidence that those include some useful information for the network devices security so we really want to this kind of image it can be used by the industry so but yes we can\u0027t find a good way to push it so yeah I think so maybe a better if we really start our second data model work the one we want to contribute a voyage okay dancy cam wins it so the reason why I was looking puzzled is did we already agree that we\u0027re going to adopt a young push or is this a request or during the read so there\u0027s nothing in there that\u0027s just as we agreed on the target acts it\u0027s a new charter Oh in the recharter got it okay yeah yeah okay so I think yang would be a good place to start from a data model I said yang is a good place to start for a data model right so I can help work on that so in the interest of time and moving forward I know you would like to model I just don\u0027t know that that will be as fruitful to say okay so I think this gives us a little bit of information if everybody wants to take a quick look at that list of milestones that I think part of this is you know working group chairs this week we\u0027re talking about whether or not we should update our milestones and oh and this working group is not alone in this but all of our milestones are out of date at this point I do think we are making progress and we have some things that are coming down the pike so it\u0027s great anyway way forward there is a lot of time between now and the next ITF and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:20",
    "text": "so we\u0027re looking at potentially three virtual interims they may not be like full two hours they might be like one hour meetings depending on what the agenda is these are the proposed weeks that we have I don\u0027t know if anybody has any any big conflicts with those weeks we\u0027ll send out doodle polls for days within the weeks and times but that\u0027s our current plan again I don\u0027t think we\u0027re alone and this is a working group but we seem to make more progress when we have more frequent meetings and so I think that would be a good thing any comments or questions on that and the second thing is is that we were looking for I also think that the effort in the hackathon has helped focus the working group and so we are again a number of the people that are regular participants in that are not here but we were interested in those of you who are regular participants in the hackathon maybe starting some conversations about what kinds of things you might be willing to collaborate on in the context of IETF 104 I personally think it would be really interesting to see if we could build the you know a a swig to coast wid converter to kind of check that you hate a mile Oh all right maybe we have something I heard there\u0027s running code yes capable of creating both coasts with and switz but I have Dave how far his code is this high Bret Jordan for the next hackathon I don\u0027t know if I will be working on sacrum or mild stuff because I\u0027ll probably be working on my cacao of course of action playbook stuff so just to keep in mind right this is definitely not I\u0027m just looking you know my availability yes thank you I think I mean there\u0027s we\u0027ve done it a couple different ways the first time we did it Adam you know put together a rough plan of what they wanted to try and accomplish and a lot of work went into coordinating in advance and then I think after that people showed up and worked on what they were working on so I don\u0027t have an opinion on which way we want to do that I just you know if if we want something that requires a little bit more coordination we probably want to start thinking about it and this was just to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:20",
    "text": "sort of put a bug in people\u0027s ear not to not to do any planning here by any stretch of the imagination they go hit right hey Jordan um just a procedural element for the working group more virtual meetings or planning sessions and doing things for hackathons are doing for it works is a forcing function if we know that we\u0027re going to be having a call or a WebEx or something and someone\u0027s going to call us on the carpet to see how far along we are it is a forcing function so it it does help focus and drive work and innovation because it\u0027s not out of sight out of mind until the next meeting and then it\u0027s two weeks before and you\u0027re oh my gosh what did I say I was gonna do and I haven\u0027t done yet and so as a general rule I think that it would be great you know for working groups across the IETF to try and you know instigate that and have touchpoints I\u0027m not saying weekly but every three months is way too long and you know you know for us vertically challenged people I\u0027d like you know they have microphones to be lowered a little bit so this is hang from the floor um there\u0027s a good example for mmm like yeah like a role model yeah the suit working group has an interim hackathon that was really successful it saved basically a IETF meeting so to speak a lot of insight was gained a lot of IOT people there are new vendors that are really interested in how to deploy firmware was about on-site and we gave new requirements and it was really fruitful so maybe this is this a off-site thing might might have there wasn\u0027t Berlin yeah I think the I just a couple things I think a Brits write interim meetings I mean it\u0027s human nature unfortunately there they are very few people I mean myself included it\u0027s hard to keep things moving if you\u0027re not touching base regularly I agree with that I think the one advantage suit has is it\u0027s the new hot sexy yeah working group that\u0027s as opposed to one that\u0027s been around for a while so that always helps I would guess I would push back a little bit on that is that it they don\u0027t just have to be new hot and sexy in order to get people to work they just have to be active and a lot of the groups you not just soup but I mean obviously some of the big ones you know host these you know interim you know plugfest hackathons on a very regular basis sometimes they\u0027re in person and sometimes they\u0027re virtual and if you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:21",
    "text": "have a clear you know list of things you\u0027re trying to accomplish sometimes they can all be done virtual you know and we have this cool technology like telepresence kind of stuff WebEx stuff you you know some of it can actually be fully done and you we can get together and talk and work through things and okay I\u0027ve got this running and you can it talk to you so I I just think more in more engagement you\u0027d like this you\u0027d like to see more engagement right alright so the whole point of this was basically we\u0027re looking to do hackathon type of activity in the in the ITF 104 timeframe we\u0027re looking to do three virtual interims between now in the next meeting and with that is there any other business and I alright well with that everybody have a lovely evening and we will see you virtually on the week of the 10th yeah [Music] [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:48",
    "text": "[Music] "
  }
]