[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:00",
    "text": "so I posted the agenda into the chat window still have to wait a little bit my John is not here yet but uh I see Rich Neil Eduardo hey dick Cedric Carson and media thanks for joining today as well hi thank you I expect somewhat light attendance today given that there is the public holiday in the US tomorrow so let's see well honest have we reached a conclusion on the hackathon what we want what we want to show there well I I would say so uh but we should definitely rehash this to to make sure that we are on the same page uh hackathon is getting closer so we need to obviously um start to get our act together"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "sounds good thank you I I was planning to respond to one of the emails that you uh send around with um some other folks from the Federal Drug Administration I think they were so yeah when I reached out to uh Jessica Wilkerson really just looking for validation of what we were thinking about for hackathon was even you know practical in regard to what they're you know they're trying to do with their new rules uh and that's all I'm really hoping we can do is get some sense that's out or validation that we're at least in all partners yeah yeah not certainly no commitment because you know that's they just don't do that you know the government has to go through all kinds of long processes yeah I don't expect them to participate participate because uh I could imagine that there are all sorts of barriers they would have to go through they probably need to announce that uh let's say six months ahead of time um to get odds through all the bureaucratic stuff but um yeah yeah I I don't think yeah we certainly I don't think we need their approval uh for to do what we want to do which is really just pull down some evidence data but I would hope that they would want you know look at what we accomplish in that and see if yeah I hope so yeah yeah cool uh hey John so I would do the meeting minute taking again um uh since you joined today and we had an office uh sort of introduction and email uh exchange um do you want to briefly introduce yourself is is that would that be okay for you sure absolutely so I'm a co-founder of gosh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "uh which which is a project that doing uh concentrating on securing software supply chain among other few things um beforehand I was a CTO and Chief Architect of everscale blockchain where I worked on like node development consensus protocol research and some other things beforehand I was working on ethereum blockchain mostly like several projects and basically I go like 25 years 25 years back in the started from voiceover it back in 2000 and what it was five oh sorry 95. um yeah so that's that's about me more or less yeah thanks a lot yeah Steve um who doesn't seem to be on the call today yet uh introduced to each other because of uh your company so it's always good to know like all the different parties uh sort of working on this supply chain security topic essentially good um I don't know how familiar you are with the meet Echo and with the ietf process um happy to sort of give you a separate intro into that uh last time I was involved in the in the design of Standards was around DOCSIS 2.0 a long time ago for a cable modem industry and the Voiceover IP there so we kind of proposed that most of the specifications for docso stood at all and the works on that itu-t kind of standard body but not an iatf okay yeah yeah it's a little different than I dot but um and also the tools are now different but you I I think you will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "find your way into it pretty quickly um yeah thanks for joining anyway um the so I post the agenda uh to the list ahead of time and I had three items um the first one was to basically wrapping up the discussion about the registration policy that we were are talking about last time and John um sort of tried to create a PR and and he will talk about it uh in a few minutes and then um we also wanted to talk a little bit about the architectural boundaries um which is a topic we seem to still come across from from time to time almost at every meeting uh these days so I think it's would be important to talk about this and this is a little bit related also to the hackathon I think um so we'll talk about attack Upton stuff and then um we should uh maybe conclude with the key trends uh working group formation and see what a conversation status is as they are currently doing uh going through an approval process of the chart that yeah I hope we will manage to go through these three items okay um in anyone else has some thoughts on the agenda some agenda agenda bashing that we need to do Cedric do you want to say something uh yes just as a comment I think the well and heat transparency is quite yours out because they are voting right now so uh I want to make sure we have time to discuss it today okay so maybe we then switch um three and two yeah that's that's a good point okay uh John do you do you want to start with um explaining what your thoughts were on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "the registration policy API and how would the text could or should look like uh yes and happily we'll have plenty of time to talk about key trends because I don't think I'll take very long um I've predictably not got quite as far as but I do have some notes which I'm trying to share if I can do that window as you are sort of putting that up on the screen who is actually in charge of updating the architectured argument or is that kind of a collective effort among all the authors it's a collective effort harness okay that's good thank you next Monday is the draft submission deadline they add pressure why don't you okay no it's uh it's not made up uh by myself right it's really next Monday that's fine Cedric you want to say something like that yeah so we have a we have a visitor so it should be the one uh the master link is there but yes we can walk by that time oh you delegated very good oh I hope he knows I would send him a message please do yes thanks okay so I can't share my screen owing to system security preferences so I'm gonna post what I would be sharing on a PowerPoint into the notes and if people want to see that you can look at the notes and if you don't if you look at the notes later um essentially so I went through"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "um the dock and yeah we started looking at this because the um the topic of registration policies were starting to take quite a lot of um quite a lot of time and it was running into some also sort of derived issues of how we deal with identities of various different types of things in those registration policies um the security guarantees that they might offer um and even sort of application layer stuff like feed integrity and and how you can restrict uh things like who can write to a software package as opposed to who can write to a skit artifact uh which are all starting to get very sort of tentacally in terms of their technical implications so I've been through the spec um in all the places where registration policies and feeds are defined and and used and I haven't quite got as far as making a PR for it um yet although I'm close um but the sort of issues that I I came to that have slowed me down a bit um is that actually if you look at the definitions of feed and registration policy on their own they're pretty close to what we've been discussing um so question marks over violating um the application layer I think are actually easy to deal with um we don't um questions over whether we understand the semantic value of the payloads um also there's there's no requirement for us to do that and there's also nothing in there that stops the system from doing things like the indexing we were talking about um last week so I think we're we're clean on that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "um the place where it gets difficult is that there are lots of references in other places to things like the the the registration policy um which seem to imply slightly different things and so it's unfortunately slightly bigger surgery than I'd hoped to get it clean but I think the My overall impression is that actually the the core bit of the spec is correct according to desires of of what people wanted we just need to clean up the side references um so a few bits where John um I'll make a few statements and then see if anybody has comments or questions on them but the place is in the core specification uh or definitions of these things um that are still a bit tricky is that we do have this uh I think not quite finished idea of having sort of two-sided registration policies so there's something that looks a lot like the server imposing Access Control but there's also um another dimension to that which is uh not the sort of standard obvious access control but also things like don't register this if it's more than a week old or um don't uh don't register this if it is sequentially earlier than something I already know um I don't personally have an issue with those things being possible um but they do make it more complicated the place where I think it it does need to be really simplified is that there's a another dimension to it which is the client expressing its thoughts on on registration in a stronger way than just being a hint such as a sequence number and that I think needs to go um there's a very minor thing but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "um I want to raise it anyway that uh the spec mentions are back um I'm not quite sure why we mentioned our back I think um we should just say access control because role based is not the only fruit uh and I don't think we should be very specific there um unless and until we specify something in the API spec itself um and there I think we've got oidc so that's already taken care of with extended claims um and that's roughly it so I see your handset Rick but just um yeah but before you go there I just for the um for the new participants I I hope uh everyone saw that I posted two links into the chat window one was to the architecture document which is what uh John was talking about and the other one is the link to the meeting minutes which is also in the panel uh at the top and John posted some text with what he has just been talking about into that into the meeting minutes Cedric yeah Pacific yes sorry I didn't want to interact but maybe I can already comment and uh on these points and uh maybe restart some of the intent uh that I think are possibly leading to some confusion in the community so um so I I think we we all agree that we don't want any uh we want to be very selective as to what other certain policies we make a normative uh so we don't want to uh put too much pressure there and I think right now we have a monetary registration policies about checking uh the signature and shaking that right entity makes sense and even that is going to depend on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "on the DI method and so I think these are uh important and we don't need to request to uh make many more registration policies monetary at the same time I think that in almost earlier a practical use of a skit for given a siblachen there will be a meaningful registration policies and that being able to declare an enforcement policies is essential and so uh because we think it's going to be uh explain that it's important and give some meaningful examples of policies we may apply but not not normative than that so one of the other thing that was discussed at length in the discussion or discussion policies and that made the expansion of the human right thing is that right now we are trying to avoid putting too much pressure on implementations because some registration policies require keeping some auxiliary state or using more resources and that's an even stronger reason not to make them mandatory but as an example if you want to check for her uh secure version numbers for example then you need to be able to fetch what was the at the constances that is what was the last the actual number that was registered and that's usual but that's also quite hard to implement at scale so uh so that's another reason why we want to provide examples but we don't want to be Innovative because some things are can be quite hard to implement in uh in some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "settings regarding the what the client does I think the the one provision we have is that there is a registration info header that is meant to provide the input to the registration policies and again we don't we should not see that as demands or request that the client is making that's more like providing input for uh the registration policies that may be specifically and so on so it's a place to play to pass arguments rather than I think a way to control what the policies are going to do although it can be used for that but again I see that as an example not that something about that okay uh finally I think uh airbag is uh is an accident so that's easy does it make sense or do you have a very different View no um I think uh uh it makes a lot of sense I think and an issue with with a lot of us being time poor and having a lot of work to do um I want to clean up um a bunch of the sections that are giving these examples because it's good in a way that the text is not normative um but it's still text that's present and it it can be confusing so I think I'll I'll I agree with everything you said I think um on as long as the registration info header is considered to be um not security relevant as you know obviously it's it it comes from a known person and you can believe that they said it that otherwise um uh you know if we have a one-sided security protocol there I'm happy with everything else and I think I just want to make those examples uh make it very clear that um that's that's what we're doing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "um otherwise otherwise that sounds good right yes but I think uh in some cases it will be security critical but we don't want to make it uh uh the security critical aspect will be more that sorry as a concrete example number in the registration it is only for transparency service that ignores it yeah so that where I'm hung up here John is that the configuration for the transparency service for types of identity that it will generate a receipt for is the under the control of transparency service itself the air back in storage and everything else that might be surrounding this is secondary to my concern um in fact I don't even think it belongs in this conversation isn't just I don't understand how to represent the identity configuration for the transparency service and how it changes and how do we track that and I didn't quite get that from your text and maybe my point sorry no no it was a it's it's not a bit I've been looking at um because I was hoping to sort of remove a lot of the need for that um you know there's a there's a whole other thing to look at which I don't think I want to sort of pick up today but just to say well I didn't pick it up in the last review um which is to Define whether or not and I would suggest not but we can get around that the signer of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "the sign statement and the or the issuer to take this sort of middle name and the entity that submits an API call into the transparency service whether those are all the same identity and subject to the same identity management at the system level and registration policy at the registration level um and that's fair and you know I kind of had a model in my head of transparency service being potentially similar to smtpu it's basically you know different identities or different bulk operations could be so many contents actually the content itself identity that is interesting for the receipt generation yes yeah so I think I think that's right and that's where most of the effort has gone into the document and that's where we have our issue of the sign to statement correct but what I don't understand is how to track whether an existing service configures a Sig store provider and then a did web provider a week later how we understand or how do we un rationalize over the receipts generated based on time specifically if you were to do an audit in a federation to archivist let's say and then somebody goes and changes the configuration to allow different identity provider how would you detect that and that's always been my why I focused on in on the wording here okay gotcha so um I'm glad you made that last point because I was about to go down a long sort of zero trust certificate transparency kind of wrote um so the way with my chair off for a second the way we deal with that in um in archivist is that every feed includes signed statements from the platform with an inclusion proof and a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "cryptographic proof of the new cryptographic group that has been provided created for the access control management of that particular feed so um in all in our platform we end up having the feed of all of the signed statements including signed statements from the transparency service saying when it updates the policy and there's a bunch of there's caching and all sorts of other things to make it easier towards it but fundamentally if you're reconstructing from the Merkle tree inclusion proofs um that that's the audit and the the complete history that you get so that that's the sort of system level solution that that we chose um I don't know if we need to go into the depths of specifying that as the way to do it but I mentioned that largely to to observe um that it is possible to do that on top of the building blocks that skit specifies um let me click on that so would you believe then that the feed would change the scene even though I enabled the ID web or sing store or removed one of them um uh this might be a thing we need to take to a more detailed offline conversation um because I think um the change that you're suggesting it would depend on how the enrollment of a user and the chaining up of their issuer identity this actual key that does the content-based stuff I think we agreed on it would depend how that is enrolled with the system um and I'm not sure off the top of my head I could come up with a complete I think sometimes it would matter and sometimes it wouldn't this is this is exactly the whole problem space where you you we say hey we're not going to care about this and you have to do a long-form way to to prove the identity provider or you just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "transparency service and say hey it proved that that John signed this not looking at who issued or what method John was used to generate his identity I could definitely see that fast path being used if we're saying hey you should never do that and you should always look at who the issuer is on top of that means every single endpoint every customer needs to understand the same root truss or configuration policy as the server and that's why I was struggling to not do that saying hey that basically as long as you trust the transparency service then you believe that the configuration for the system is the Danny for John or Roy was exactly there and that's this why I got wrapped up on here I'm thinking about the disconnected storing Ford if I just take the receipts off that period feed I don't have potentially some of this other data and this is exactly why I was pushing on this problem space right okay group of registration policies that's I I think yeah because we think it was registration for the for the transparency Ledger and it got rolled up into skip an application and that was my problem it's more of the identity configuration for the transparency but I think I think we we need to stay sort of precise on on the specific functions because um we we otherwise get lost in the in the function as we currently there's no text in there how federations work even among skate servers let alone interoperability into other ecosystems I I think that that's a a future we did talk about disconnected right if you were talking about it but it's not in the document during you're being too nicer on this thank you I I read last week"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "thank you I'll let I'll let somebody else go you you let uh you let Steve know that you need to add so so can I maybe comment on that uh so yes uh sort of since I'm first in the queue uh asked John like um specifically how should we change the text in the in the document because uh like I put a proposal around that simplifies I think we struggling with the same issues um but until next Monday we need to come up with some text to make it better from where we are today how do we get there so I think you're with the exception of a a small change I think I would make in light of what Roy's just said I think I finally understand the the root of that issue um I think your your text works um I would still also want to make a change to relate it to feeds this is the other thing um that's a little bit unclear is about the scope of registration policies um we sort of wanders a little bit to the reader between whether it applies to feeds or artifacts which are sort of the same thing but not quite exactly the same thing um or um or just to the the whole transparency service so there's a little bit extra to do but yeah I didn't look into that yeah I very much liked the the tenor of that and I think the conclusion last week was that we need to keep it real simple and this was this was going to be my punch line really um but maybe you can maybe you can propose some decks for the feed issue um because I didn't made an attempt to yeah that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "easier to that's easier to unpick as I said the issue so the the issue with doing a PR that I ran into was just all of the references so the the bulk definition I think everybody's been largely agreeing at least on the major points for a few weeks now um the editing task to do is to find all of the implications in places where it's referenced and doesn't quite um tie up and that's the the detail that that we've been getting from Cedric today okay so yes I would like to confirm that we agree on the on the goal there so so my view is that both John's example and uh voice examples are two instances of uh implementation specific uh registration policies so one of them is uh at least the way I would uh reformulate it is passing uh assigned a cryptographic group for the feed as part of the registration and the other is passing uh uh reference or a digest of the service configuration to be used for the registering the the statement so I think both are uh important examples of registration policies that we don't want to standardize yet so we just want to make sure that the architecture enables both to be specified in an implementation specific way and later on once we know what are the the most popular patterns you may want to provide a bit more structure like a registry or a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "standardize some of the most commonly used registration policies that for now translating each implementation defines and on first the whole registration policy is good enough is it correct or you want to hide something significantly different from that uh that that is correct um and the own the the details we've been talking through um and again to sort of reference Roy's point my understanding of it is just to make sure that where things are referenced we either remove that reference which allows us to lean on this very simple non-normative approach that you're talking about which I prefer um or if it's really hard to do that um that's where the the extra thinking might need to come in about very specifically saying we make this um policy evaluation based on the issuer of the sign statement um rather than the issuer of the identity of the issuer for example because we have subca and um PDP type issues with that um rather than the API identity of the um thing entering the the API endpoint there's just a few little snags where we have to either remove references or make those references more specific um but overwhelmingly yes I agree with with what you just said and I think it's the right answer to move forward okay thanks uh thank you harness yeah I just uh on the record of supporting what Roy said earlier that we really just need to trust the transparency service and I think we have real world examples of how this works today for example land records which are registered here in the U.S by the registrars of these records"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "have a process they follow and when I go to land records registry I cross the data that I receive so I think trusting the data in the registry that the registry contains and provides is the way to go and I also believe it's up to us to define the correct processes and procedures in skit that will ensure that the people that this transparency services that are contain these registrations are locked solid they are they are impeccable integrity and it's a process and protocols that we create will ensure that thanks okay great yeah hi um good morning so I was a little bit late the um I'm for absolutely trying to um make things simple and I think uh we're gonna for me anyway I wanna I wanna try this stuff and see what we're gonna learn when we start trying it because uh has too much to to you know try to think of uh without really trying it in and then I'm sure we can you know add whatever's needed at that time but but this level of um of the receipts with the registry and so forth is um uh is you know a core to it and in order to proceed we need to at least get something working and then uh then we can improve it so I'm I'm For You know the kiss method and any um any statements I may have made to the contrary um take those with a grain of salt I'm just trying to make sure we can support"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "the things I'm thinking of but thank you thanks Ray yeah hi no I just first of all I wanted to ask a simple administrative questions so the uh skipped architecture zero one is the current draft that we are kind of looking for and submitting on Monday um the zero one is the one that we have submitted um I will post a link to the GitHub repository into the chat window to show you like the open issues and all sorts of other stuff and PRS and there would be another version submitted a Serial tube uh in the deadline is next Monday so can we see the solution or how it works uh yeah you can you can uh let me look it up because the most important thing like for me for now because of the time constraint is to make sure because in zero one draft there was quite open to the other architectural kind of for example uh the law the construction of the log and so on and as far as I understood in this current draft we're going to make uh to make things like locked up into particular implementation which I definitely we would definitely not like to see there and because simply some stuff we just cannot for example Implement in general like if because we already have like a blockchain service which uses particular modified binary Oracle tree if for example the draft will say okay you will need to use this particular Miracle tree then we won't be able to Simply comply ever um so for me this is like very important topic to make sure at least that it's quite open so implementations are possible and zero one architecture I think provides great uh great uh kind of framework for that thanks that's good to hear um yeah you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "definitely so I posted the link into the chat window but um we have been talking a lot then there have been changes made to the document but I would say that they many of them are more cosmetic uh like readability etc etc not um fundamental in the way that they would totally change the the way zero one works in by any stretch of imagination so I think you should be fine but um please double check in and Trace those points immediately one that I'm looking for is draftskit architecture MD three weeks ago that one or which one of the because there are several links there editors copy data tracker page working group draft which one should I look at uh yeah so that there's um there's an official sort of the submitted uh working group Taft this is the one uh zero one is the submitted one which is also linked by that page but um if you look at the editors copy that's the uh that's called kind of the current snapshot um but there are still two PRS India and I haven't added the BR of the discussion that we just had a minute ago about the registration policies and maybe there would be other PRS coming uh this week as we are sort of like editorial sort of fixes so I saw uh because there are still a few glitches in the in the document like so I'm looking at this this one that I just posted the direct link to right let me see no that's that's wrong uh yeah because that's what that's what the editors copy is linking to oh okay okay then uh sorry uh just let me look let me click myself so then I see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "or maybe the working group drafts or no no you you're right uh no now as I click uh on the link myself yeah that's the that's the editor's copy that's the link that is it resourced to okay so this is the this is the correct one for the current yeah okay all right yeah I think yeah and the source is also in the same directory this just rendered the HTML rendered version of the markdown source that is in the in that of course yeah [Music] okay so now let's Ray I just had one uh sort of detail that I found where the the term feed um is defined to mean the issuer's name for the artifact and is that right I mean it's or is that some sort of a um because feed to me doesn't normally mean that but maybe within this this realm of technology it does is a feed to me would I would think would mean uh something that you tap onto when you start watching all kinds of stuff coming through instead of just a name for one artifact this is the question what I have to defer to someone who came up with that term I don't know who he was Hank you came up with that done hi this is think I'm not sure if this is working yes sorry could you refresh that question including the term please because also and so on on um section 6.1 um it goes through all signed statements must include the following protected headers and one of them is called the feed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "and uh it's a third one down and it says the issuer's name for the artifact is a string so maybe um and it does but I hear in the conversation here people talking about the feed and I was understanding that you could have maybe uh several people subscribe to the feed off of the off of the transparency service if somebody wants to just watch everything come through and verify whatever they want as opposed to being a specific name for an artifact so if maybe somebody who's who's more familiar can and take a look at that section and and reflect on whether that's the right term okay so the the feed is a um a a topic you could relate it to a topic of a what would typically is done with brokering um subscription um published models the pub sub models so the the feed here is about a product and we acknowledge the fact that just a name for a feed might not be enough that there might be a hierarchy here so to speak high subtopics as everybody in broker World realize at some point and um and we might have to elaborate on the value of the feeds to to or to to represent that hierarchy so this is a Sub sub topic that product for example it isn't necessarily just a name for the for an artifact but the feed could contain that or it can contain some other stuff too right is that what it means yes yes it's Associated information of course um easiest scenario is I have a distinguishable piece of software that I maintain and I post sorry register statements about that software but you could also have standard subtopics that every piece of software comes with vdrs with um they mean that's true to take Optics um use"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "case or would come up with with um this updates versus patches versus duplication or something statements and so there might be specific feeds and and we have to agree on a certain structure here but for now yes it is a uh next iteration problem so to speak we will keep it uh simple for now on the feed level but um but expect that we have to bring the topic up again and make it a little bit more complex same goes with the registration policies I think always in line so I will not talk about that too much but there's there's um issuers May register things that is the minimal viable registration policies is to um restrict uh issuers of course I think that is a must for the core API but then also we might want to restrict um they did methods here and and that is by the way why it was at some point you said it was just a string the issue because uh we're using the uh did method here and and I think every year the flow for Ori to elaborate on that hopefully in contributing what he's going to say oh yeah okay thanks for the description yep I basically was going to say all the things that Hank said I think you know the important thing to keep in mind here is there's different ways to look at this ecosystem you can look at it from the perspective of the transparency service and The Operators of the service the first question that they have is who is allowed to send me sign statements and then the second question that they have is uh are there is there any metadata in these sign statements that will be useful to you know grouping um things so if I say well I've got these three uh providers each of them has a unique identity and I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "want to let these three guys submit stuff to my log um that's great each of them might have a different feed that they're commenting on or they might both be interested in making comments about the same fee and my policy as a transparency service is what determines whether I accept that so for example I could have a policy that says this issue is only allowed to talk about fish this issue is only allowed to talk about beef or I might have a policy that says these issuers are allowed to talk about fish or beef but only when they use these keys um so the the policy registration policy is is big and it sort of assumes some things are in place in order to be useful and the most important thing the registration policy assumes is some awareness of the issuers as Hank mentioned that's it so before you go Ori the question is how do you think we solve that like even in a in a feed adding a different identity provider you still need some hymn to know something's changed like I don't understand how a feed fixes this problem I know you and I have gone around the post on this one but I'm trying to get clarity I'll jump to the the front of the queue to try and answer um so the feed is just one part of the solution uh the registration policy is it could be complicated the simplest version just says these are the issuers that I'll Trust to accept sign statements from and and that by itself also doesn't really fix these problems you need kind of more detailed policies to decide more specific business processes in general"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "the only one that we really spend a lot of time talking about is the registration policy because it represents some of the minimal cryptographic requirements to ensure that every transparency service will have some sort of common security basis but you can imagine you know the seafood industry might have a whole set of shared policies that add on to the registration policy that protect their specific business scenarios like you know never accepting a temperature sensor you know from Cold Storage you know vessel if it's outside of a certain range because it would represent some liability like that's very specific to the kind of information that provider might want to be anchoring and policies will work for that but it might not be policies we would discuss here yeah I I I I got all that that's the outer sort of policy discussion but I'm still trying to figure out when your processing receipts how do you know something's changed when you say when you process receipts which if you consumers of all of a trusted statement are going to be processing receipts involved okay so let's let's use the language of the spec let's say that I'm a consumer of software that I have transparent statements for and your questions transparent statements for the software I'm consuming okay so let's be really crisp so when the software supply chain space we have s-bombs that we have to build a tree for so we got a whole bunch of s-bombs we got a whole bunch of of vet statements and cves that we all have to process for every single um product as we try to reference it so there's multiple things coming in Flight if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "I vetted trust with a transparent Ledger how do I detect when the configuration is changed if there's not a hint in all these documents that I can hang my hat on going back and saying here's a receipt tell me what your policy was at the time you can't say changed anymore without being more precise what what do you mean what changed I gave the example in the previous conversation with with John which is somebody enabled did web or somebody enabled sync store or somebody removed those how do I know that when I'm processing all these projects how do I know something's changed so you're saying if the transparency service changed the allowed issuers how do I know correct right and and there isn't a way for you to know that right now you might as a client you would so the thing is the transparency service is always going to be giving you uh transparent statements that are from it and it might have like today it supported these guys that are all great but tomorrow they lower their standards and now everyone can send stuff the signatures are still going to come from the transparency service it's just that they're not really meaningful anymore because the transparency service went from being very selective to being not very selective right and that's exactly there isn't any way in the current architecture for you to detect anything regarding that because the trust route that the client the consumer of the software or the consumer of the transparent statement that's a trust relationship between them and the transparency service and there isn't a way to sort of grade the transparency service based on what we have today Roy this is not something we have documented in a way that we said that we want to solve that problem if if you look it we put in the fact that we wanted the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "identity provider path to be discussed as part of this working group as part of that we have to think through what it means for the receipts that we generate in this form so that's why I keep harping it I you know I I understand what Rory is saying about the different verticals and the and the specific stuff but when it comes to this the weakening of the transparency service scares the bejesus out of me here if we don't have some way to set the alarm off pretty early can can you um put an uh an issue into the issue tracker so we don't we don't forget that and now the question to the group eight minutes left uh should we continue that conversational or briefly talk about the key transparency they create needle what do you think I'm fine with moving to the key transparency service but this fundamentally is when I say registration policy it was specifically for the transparency service always this problem specifically I mean I'll just jump in and say that I I'm still going to be able to see the signatures from the issuers themselves so the the consumer might see a broader range of stuff coming through her feed but the consumer I don't know I in my mind the consumer isn't trusting the transparency service to be an authority on whether software is secure or whatever it's trusting the no it's relying on the transparency service to have said the identity that you used to sign past the agreed upon the policy and when the policy changes that's where I'm really struggling yeah and I just don't think we can leverage policies to to take care of everything I think I it's hard to to be a relying party here but you you can you can have new statements that I I don't know it's not the transparency service that is is betting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "the content and and I never said it anything it has nothing to do with the content it has to do with the identity providers that are configured do I allow oh it's just different uh right if other sort of services like you subscribe to some Microsoft service and they keep changing their privacy policy like as a user you you have to re-evaluate the decision whether you want to use that service or not no because we basically are forcing and distributing trusted Roots down to everybody either through group policy or through Windows update or through some other this is a we're trying to say hey this is offloading a lot of that problematic if you trust the transparency service to do this job The Knowing When Somebody Mis reconfigured it is super important find an issue um we should at least capture it in the document even if we sort of okay this is what we've been talking about for the last since the last ietf is exactly what I was working on in the last hackathon this is why we created you know maybe the text that they're in the open issues aren't clear but this is exactly I I so like as you know like have been in every discussion I didn't um so this was for the first time you articulated it so clearly to me that I understood it uh but maybe that's just me um um so maybe maybe it is already well documented we just hasn't haven't gotten to incorporate the text into the document that's fine I'll go back and look at the issues again I'm ori's statement is the one that scared scares me which is turned it from something you trusted to something that's junk is something we have to make sure we defend against okay [Music] um thank you Johannes uh yeah this is related to the policy and the issues"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "we're discussing uh right now there's a debate underway inside the sisa in usdhs on software identity how to express or how to identify software and I think this is going to be germane to our registration policies as well is that we need to have a unique identifier for software if we're going to be providing software supply chain artifacts through a registry then we need to be able to identify the specific software products that the material relates to so I think we may need to address the need for a agreed standard for how to identify software products within a registry thanks okay um we still have four minutes uh for the key trends John do you want to um sort of summarize a little bit on the on the key trends discussion there's currently so I don't know if you guys are on the uh keytrans mailing list but there's uh currently a call for um what is actually the call exactly uh to approve the the chart of the group uh based on a text that is um has been floating around is that is that uh correct John uh it is correct I'm not the best place to talk about this necessarily I think um Ori and uh dick and others have been more involved this uh this week but yeah there's a birds of a feather on the Tuesday of itf117 and ahead of that they're looking to get statements of support for the current draft of the of the spec yeah but it's definitely worthwhile to read through the specification uh I think already you posted it to the mailing list to the skit mailing list and it uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "it's interesting in a sense because they have um obviously a specific problem they want to solve like the storing The Binding between user identities and the public keys and they also have some specific privacy requirements um which I thought was interesting and they solved them using um brfs which are different than uh dix3if uh some cryptographic technique and um they also have a more elaborate API uh and and I think that's also interesting to look at from from based on the discussion we had on the list uh Hank yeah um this is saying sorry again I have to um put off something like yeah okay um I think it's very important that we do not create parallel structures that can be avoided with key trends um I think we try to reach out a few times that was not super successful that is just my gut feeling I don't know how other perceive that I think at iitf in um in San Francisco we really have to make sure to find debuff performance Champions on site and such and uh and or key proponents and such and and find out uh that we will not create um non-interoperable parallel structures here that would be uh the only thing I'm I'm a little bit unsure about if that is a wider at the moment because I can't see anything in the charter that would disallow uh creating these uh parallel structures maybe it's it's Justified I think that's what the isg to find out but also we can highlight maybe a few uh domains where there's Synergy and some other domains where we can learn from each other and I think that that's a job I think someone has to take that on I'm not entirely sure if we've been very good at it yet uh including me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "Cedric oh yeah just uh we don't have a shame I just recover as well so first of all I think the vote is only for the charter not for a technical document always back if you if there is a spec that it's cover us then I need to read it but I think you just follow Chateau which is quite brief and abstract the current is current is about the chanta but there is also a spec to look at which already kindly uh posted but I will post it again to the uh chat window yes so the the second comment and I think that uh it will be a really uh useful to discuss with them a view of heat transparency as a ship like chain for uh public keys and if we do that then there are the similarities and what we can reuse I would have hit and what are specific needs uh become more happy and so I think uh at least then expressing interest is discussing that anger with us maybe in the chatter maybe before the next ETF or the next eight Championship will be the most useful so it is uh it is an effect or should be a chain for our public keys with specific events on privacy that uh also regardless you can close to what we are doing the third aspect maybe is in terms of Merkel trees they are neither will be different from us because uh they critically need a labeled Mercury so that they can do lookups not just full of inclusions and so it's possible with uh Cosmic retreatment that will require extending the scope of what you are doing there so far okay um thanks Cedric and uh thanks to everyone We've ran already over time again and I will reach out to Steve"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "about the document submission headline so he he indeed submits the document and I will create a VR um for the registration policy um as we discussed and yeah um I think we have another uh call next Monday so I hope uh you guys have time to participate um in addition to the draft writing and draft updating so we'll continue the conversation there and maybe we'll be able to do some last minute fixes and honest could we come to some conclusion on the the hackathon what we plan to show there yes uh that's maybe something we should we should already start doing on the mailing list and then we can do that also during the meeting year thanks a lot okay thanks good meeting thanks everyone"
  }
]
