[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:17",
    "text": "foreign um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:14",
    "text": "foreign so I I see that we are um let me check do it should we wait for the others or shall we start now I know the record has a conflict that cannot attend this meeting unfortunately okay so um maybe um so let's see how can I share my computer um settings notifications show hands presentation View we got review I'd like to see the the note taking tool is that possible to share the screen um so so on the notes uh it's just easier if you follow the link I've just placed in the chat okay right okay if you want to share your screen you have to look at the top left oh yeah yeah yeah that's okay yeah yeah yeah I got it great so you have my screen now and I'm going to move here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "the not well so can you see it yes yeah so I guess you're all aware of the not well um and we can probably move directly to to the meat of the meeting so we have a currently four drafts and I think these are the drafts we want to discuss uh today um I'm wondering if um Signum you want to start or do do we have any preferred order I don't mind starting okay go go ahead so maybe I can try to share your meeting material okay the first one the first one here we go good okay uh we can go directly to the second slide um I as promised brought this back from expiration and it's now at version five it has progressed more slowly than I imagined but I uh finally aligned the document better with the current group com and also had a look at groupcom Oscar to have a few ideas of how to meet um the requirements of groupcom which are 30 mandatory requirements than 15 optional requirements which were not previously thought in the uh previous versions of the document um and in the previous versions of the document it only considered authorization to two asses we changed that if you remember to a single as with two audiences and it only handled join requests and responses and protecting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "the pub sub communication now the document has expanded to be um to meet the groupcom requirements so we talk about more about the KDC interface the resources hosted operations permitted on those resources for the different roles which are namely the publisher and subscriber and the group operation discussions the subsections have expanded to include clearing for group information um updating authentication credentials removing being removal from the group and re-keying the group so we we have discussions around this currently I've selected the very basic default um mechanisms that were suggested already in the group com um for these um but in the next slide I also ask for maybe more considerations need to be added to um expand on these group operations let me not switch yet let me talk a little bit about slide too um so in addition I've also defined a scope the aif for AI format similar to the the oscore one it's called aif Pub sub group comb it describes um how the scope should be formatted with two two roles publisher and subscriber so it's very similar to the oscore document in that case the scope change so those were the changes introduced the other major changes I have moved the focus away from mqtt because as the group com document has expanded to include additional operations and some of those things that were not previously considered is now added to the document I start to question whether how relevant or how applicable this document to the application in practice and just to give an example for instance to re-key a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "group you need to be able to send from KDC um and you know some communication to the clients regarding the key changes and this is not clear how it will be done unless the nqtt client supports all the time Co-op Communications at the same time so having these multitude of protocols um HTTP to do the mqttls profile co-opt talk to the KDC and then the mqtt to to do the pub sub communication it seemed like there was no justification for that kind of a client um so um that's why I've removed the focus to the end sketch the solution how this could be still done for mqtt but I wonder whether mqtt should be just omitted from this draft altogether so that's the first question to the working group and next slide please so let me um start to rephrase um is the problem that too many protocols have to be implemented by um for a mqtt client is the problem that you you need two too many layers for the standard mqtt client it's it's just that the co-op pops up is a way of doing Pub sub communication for different you know type of protocol and mqtt is exactly doing the same perhaps up communication or using a different protocol it's just that if things are implemented in mqtt you would imagine that you know it stays in the mqtt ecosystem um and then the HTTP was able to be justified because you would say you know we didn't expect clients to do the HTTP we expected them to be onboarded somehow in at the beginning with mqtt TLS profile and it was the resource server that was supposed to do a little bit HTTP and that was kind of acceptable because of the current applications of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "amqtt allow that kind of plugins to the resource server or the broker mqtt broker so there were already examples of that in the um in in practice now we don't have examples of mixed Co-op mqtt clients or any applications to that end and I personally didn't know how to justify that kind of combination of um protocols um to be able to do the co-op communication with the KDC that's why I'm questioning how applicable the strap will be to mqtt um and that's why I pushed the emphasis um to the end just a sketch so the the draft 100 focuses on Co-op at the moment and still has questions to resolve even with Co-op and and then mqtt just adds another layer of complexity to the draft at the mo the pub sub draft and I don't know if it is going to be a practicable solution okay um do you want the other to to give their opinion on that so the question would be whether the draft should be only focused on um on Co-op or I mean basically include mqtt or not now the there's a line in the sentence in the yes that's the question just to say to people there is a sentence in the draft which said oh you know you can use other Pub sub protocols and Etc but even when you try to sketch the solution for mqtt I would say it would require another profile rather than you know being squeezed into the pub sub profile that's the only comment yeah I'm happy to have feedback on this yeah Marco do you have any uh what sigdam said basically I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "it's better for once to to focus on on Co-op at least at the moment just ensuring to not prevent any alternative versions focused on mqtt and yes sounds better to take that kind of effort so I support focusing on Co-op for now yeah I I I I just agree with what's been said I think that makes sense I I actually had a question just about uh um perhaps this is I haven't read the draft in a long time so perhaps this is answered already but the dependence on the co-op Pub sub draft that that's still the draft and I don't know um I don't remember really the state of that draft uh is there is there some sensitivity there in in design choices in the pub subdraft that will have impact on this draft I think we have to keep an eye on this definitely definitely so uh when I first agreed to participate in the draft I was thinking my role was on the mqtt part but now um and the Pop-Up Parts more or less were established um but um and uh the role has changed I've been adding more and trying to understand how it pops up works and that was another question I think either Francesca needs to actually come back to the to the draft to be able to answer these questions um and uh justify some of the choices that have made been earlier which is the topic of my slide three there are some earlier even choices from even the security and that needs to be reconsidered and if there are changes to the co-op pop sub I think they need to be also addressed back in this document if what we're saying"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "um no more holes so short answer I don't know thanks maybe we should ask the chairs of core core working group here what's what's the status of of the co-op Pub sub or the the plans uh the authors are trying to revive it and there was a rebump literally a few weeks ago I think and it's mostly on high Miss ends um to progress that and as far as I know he had a to-do uh quite detailed to follow uh but yeah uh when I remind about that I also put it in context of this Ace document so that one doesn't block the other eventually okay thank you what I'm hearing from sigdem is that she's looking for additional resource um yeah I do definitely need a little bit of help because I feel like I'm making decisions on my own which needs to be I think and needs a bigger wider working group consensus as well as a person who's much more familiar with Co-op pops up and maybe slide 3 will explain uh some of the some of the questions that I'm trying to answer so there are a number of to-do's what I have done is I've gone through the gripcom mandatory and optional requirements and try to answer as many questions as possible especially also following the Oscar lead looking at how that draft answered those questions and also taken into account Marco's earlier review on this um and even the late Jim shout who revealed and put certain questions which were not still answered on this document um so one of these there are various different things that the documents"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "tries to be flexible at the moment and therefore has to um due to that flexibility has to put even more considerations into how things need to be handled the first one is the token transfer method the draft says you can either use or score or dtls profile to do the transport and like Ace transport so um and then the token transfer method the draft describes at the moment is using the the uh the endpoint for token transport but it also accepts that in the details profile you could use other methods during the TLs handshake the TLs handshake uh now if that's the case um there should be a method to do the KDC Challenge from the KDC communicated somehow and Oscar um describes a method and we need to also decide on a method for that if we are to keep that flexibility of how the token is transported and there are um I kind of host said we host almost all the resources at the moment that the groupcom defines except the policies because I wasn't too sure what that policies resource could hold for Pub sub group communication um and then that could be brought back um but then we need to think about what those policies resource look like for a pub sub and then there are lots of different things that need to be clarified due to the write-up being based on older documents especially for the authentication credential descriptions as well as the protection of the pub sub communication there were um outstanding questions regarding those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "already and then the documents referred to got older now we need to refer to the newer documents um for the signature algorithms as well as the structure of the code say object um and talk about the acceptable authentication credentials much more clearly previously these were all Koza keys and I updated it to be a list of things including Seaboard web tokens and Etc following the Oscar lead the group home Oscar lead but then I would like to know in a pub sub Co-op setting uh what is the expectation on these algorithms um and that's definitely um would be helpful if there was another person to give commentary on this um there were also questions about protecting the group communication for the group key Generation Um the way that it's described in the document at the moment doesn't seem to be entirely correct um because of how the base IV is sent to the group members by the KDC and how the partial IV is generated by the group members it seems under defined there seems to be some details missing there um and then at the moment for instance group re-keying I defaulted to point to point which is the grip com's recommendation but then one could easily imagine it would be much nicer to have the KDC being involved in group wreaking through the pub sub communication for instance and having a wreaking topic that the group members register to and KDC publishes new king material there and it's group breaking and that needs to be again defined at the moment the the document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "response to the a number of groupcom requirements or leaves them as to do and that's clearly marked but we do definitely need to go through I'm clearly say for each of those 13 mandatory requirements how do we answer them and that's still missing so in summary um I I've done a number of additions to the draft to make it closer to groupcom requirements but there requires at least one or two iterations to make sure that it answers all the mandatory requirements at least and then it might leave optional requirements uh as they are but um there needs to be definitely um and more work to be done on this draft so I don't think it would be ready for the law school that as you were imagining by the deadline that you had in mind Daniel so that's my summary it doesn't it's not a very Rosy summary but there are a huge number of things that need to be clarified in the draft um based on its current write-up okay right um yeah and I I feel like I need a definitely either um to sit down with Francesco or somebody who's who knows the pub sub Co-op a little bit more than I do in terms of what's the acceptable um algorithms and uh credential you know authentication credentials and Etc uh for that type of um communication model okay right so I I think that's the the major take out so the first thing is that who in the in the working group could address those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "questions and could have could help um seek them so I'm not sure if anybody is actually watching the queue um it seems to me that this is a flexible protocol as you said and it needs some other protocols to do part of the work for that and you're running into this problem in in two places one is where you have this weird combination of mqtt HTTP and Co-op and maybe we can can understand that a little bit better um and and find out whether we really need all three of them um and the other one is that you you need to make sure that the updated group come documents actually do what you need or how to parameterize them so that they do what you need and then to me it sounds a lot like this needs kind of an architecture Plus profile approach so the the interface between the um group comp keying uh here and uh the pub sub keying and the various uh transfer methods and so on employed is well defined so it becomes easy to say oh for dtls we put this here and then there and and we are done um and I'm wondering if that could simplify the the work here because the the pub sub um authorization mechanism itself uh would simply say uh oh I need a way to to redistrute redistribute uh changed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "key and then a profile would say uh yeah we can do this using the pub sub mechanism or we can use this using group communication or we have another way of doing this um so I think that that would it easier make it easier for me actually to to uh make more more reasonable contributions to the work instead of looking at it as as one big thing looking at it as two parts that have a very fine interface um I'm not I'm beginning of the meeting we were thinking mqtt from the draft anyway thinking that um it with the combination of the product protocols is too much to expect on a mqtt client to be Co-op at the same time to manage the KDC so and whether it was practicable um and that's why I suggested to remove mqtt anyway yeah I'm not sure I like the suggestion too much I mean it sure simplifies the document so that that's a a good thing but having another um base protocol on transfer project called India would make sure that the um the this architecture Plus profile approach actually is exercised and we do it more in more than one way so I think the the mqtt mechanism would actually be good and what we would need to do here is make sure we do this in a way that actually makes sense so I'm not entirely sure why we need three protocols here I mean I know the difference between mqtt like protocols and rest like protocols but why do we need HTTP and um okay sorry I should have been clear um so the mqtt because the document assumes that the end the underlying"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "communication between the As and the RS is somehow secured by Ace transport profile and the only one that is existing for mqtt at the moment is mqtt TLS profile which uses HTTP that's why it became three protocols because we have to assume somehow the client is able to talk to the as and then the client is able to talk to the RS the broker with some kind of an ace transport profile and the only one that exists at the moment is the mqttls profile which kind of ties them to that HTTP TLS plus Ace related stuff and then mqtt for the pub sub communication and then on top of this to secure the pub sub communication to encrypt the content the payload um we have to get the KDC architecture the pub sub architecture that is described here um and then the KDC is only supporting co-ops so that now the mqtt client needs to be able to get tokens using the mqtt TLs profile and then it needs to approach the KDC using Co-op and then it needs to approach the broker using mqtt yeah so um I I definitely don't know these uh protocols well enough to to uh make a reasonable suggestion but I I in my naivet I would have thought that uh Co-op and HTTP are essentially equivalent so why why do you even need both then we would have to have the mqtt TLs profile change to support the the thing over Co-op as well right because that profile doesn't include well it does say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "it does say you can if you want to use co-ab and the equivalent but the entire thing was described over HTTP TLS combination yeah another way is to to run Co-op over mqtg um I haven't considered that that's actually the one that that my brain delivers first when I start to think about this okay um so and any um communication with the KDC would be over mqtt in in that uh model with uh go up on top of it um my understanding was that we didn't want to go into the discussion of KDC supporting any other protocol then Co-op okay now if that is a constraint then then yes uh yeah I I I took it as a from a group called KDC time because we kind of rely all the group com definitions of KDC and how it hosts the co-op resources and what operations it permits on it um yeah I mean so I completely agree that a solution can be can be found that's why I kept the sketch there but then I noticed that that sketch to be anything useful for mqtt would have to answer a number of questions for re-keying especially and um it felt like a bit hand wavy to describe it over three protocols um just to make it fit um so I wouldn't close the door to mqtt but I feel like it would almost um waste down the document basically previously uh previously I was thinking that there would be enough common um methods to describe and then you would have a collab section describing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "how you know using these common approaches you construct a solution for Co-Op and then if you take this and this and change a bit of this you would do that for mqtt it ended up not being so that way it ended up like writing two different documents and that's why I said let's take a step back from mqtt now because I don't even know how to answer some of the questions for Co-Op and the co-op help that I I was asking for is mostly about probably a second eye and it could be resolved with a review on um another review it doesn't you know I'm definitely happy to have other co-authors on this but uh more uh on reviewing the selection of um um the key algorithms as well as authentication credentials to be future proof um as they are they are selected the previous version of the draft was not future proof and there were a number of questions raised about Key Construction and then um kind of wrote it up similar to um the group com um oscar but then the Key Construction Group Key Construction there uses a very oscar-specific uh solution and uh just I do not think that directly applies to the pub sub uh Co-op so something needs to be fixed in um specifically how the group keys are constructed in the in the draft so that's I think the major the major mandatory requirement that needs to be addressed others other questions I'm raising are more or less optional like we do have a default working solution described in the draft but since we are trying to be flexible in terms of token transfer methods Etc or it would be a good addition if we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "had a group wreaking for instance um even though we do have a default solution described in the draft so all of these are nice to have um but the main issue that needs to be resolved is um a review on the authentication credentials to be used by the Publishers as well as the group wreaking the group key approach that secures the pub sub communication so those are the two things that I need maybe another pair of eyes on okay I'm wondering whether this can be done in a way that somebody could write that mqtt document later on um yeah and used to the user-defined interface yeah I think the mqtts the mqtt sketch at the moment is more or less following the co-op for um so for getting the authorization it is more or less there is a solution for this and then for the KDC uh to get um to send the join requests and response to the groups you know there there could be a sketch on this as well um the um group communication or the pub sub communication is going to be over mqtt how that is protected that could be also described the group re-keying approach the one-to-one communication that is necessary from that should be initiated from KDC to the mqttc client that's not very clear so that is the part where there is a struggle um and that's um that's the part that needs to be resolved basically yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "yeah so we're looking for someone who could join this work yeah so once this pops up I cleanly written uh it would have been an easier or not an easier but I think less uh um uncertain way to um deal with the mqtt as well and happy to follow it up on a separate profile um building on the pub sub even referring to that a lot and just explaining the differences with mqtt um but I would rather have the co-op pops up clean the describe how it implements the group com basically yep cut it yeah and so um who do you who do we think can help Signum in the in the working group well just jump into the mic uh I think I can assist especially on the key usage and hopefully update and in the alignment with key group com um overall well I reviewed the document before I plan to do it again uh I I think you you prefer to wait for yet another revision for for an actual review that's my guess at least in general I can help out see them yes thank you Marco I would yes I would like to push another update but maybe I'll send you an email um to ask for your feedback on the choices that I am going to be putting in that revision a mother that makes sense based on your involvement with core pops up as well as um you know your uh because you've re you've done the Oscar one for groupcom so um compared to that whether"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "um that's kind of an acceptable choice we may take a focus telecon generally if it works for you at least we we work on this and think yeah okay I have two quick comments on on the slides you show um first on the first point on slide three um if I understand correctly report your raising there it's probably about doing that the me to define the method for a Casey challenge just the way it is done in key group commas core because kiro.com just say if you do something strange that deviates from this Norm well you have to define a way to circulate The Challenge and can you come Oscar considers uh that that particular case from the DTs profile and defines the challenge in that case so probably you may want to go for just the same thing really I thought about this yes I've read I've read it through I've read it through I thought about this I left it because I wanted to check um so I think what I have struggled with is that there were certain choices or um default paths that were chosen by Francesca when she started out the document and I wasn't too sure how serious we were to oh offer those options of you know other flexible paths and Etc and whether there was a uh um there was a kind of a strong opinion to include those other options or not so yes I completely agree with you if we were to provide the other dtls profile um token transfer methods then the the one that you describe in group Commerce course definitely can just be taken and put into this draft as well or referred to or referred to if I don't you know I don't need to rewrite it I can just refer it to um the group comma score and say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "implement it that way basically good now the other point was at the end of the previous slide when you say you define the the AF data model um yeah I think you should um additionally register a co-op content format and if you check Kiku come Oscar that happened there and yes and so that's a good thing to do anyway but building on that um you may want to consider an additional optional feature that is defining key group com in the first place and then it is specialized in Kiger com Oscar and it's about the optional tagging of the scope claim in the access token to Signal its semantics and and thanks to the existence of the um file major currency I don't remember the exact number out of my head uh you don't actually need to manually register a new um sieber tag you have one automatically registered from the content format you have registered okay yeah score all this is done there specialized for for that uh profile uh something similar makes sense here too I think will do I I mean I noted a number of things in the group com Oscar document that we should be doing similarly um yeah but uh I I try to address the most important ones as I've seen but this this makes it you know I'll add it to the to-do list for the Seaboard attack registration as well yeah the content format contract format yeah and that will automatically result in in a tag registration that you may want to use for other things okay sorry no no worries uh yeah that's all I had thanks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "okay so no more comments so we have a plan to move forward but um um my understanding is that we're just making one step we we don't really know how to to completely finish the document now and we are still looking for additional resource am I correct I mean no I think it's fine um I do have each of the questions I raised I do have uh possible uh Solutions um and if Mark and if I if I kind of uh work with Marco and then uh you know have him review those things that should be fine okay perfect okay with the the one question of things like certain resources that are to be hosted as I said I kind of said KDC hosts almost all the resources except the policies related one it would be good to have a little bit Insight on to uh you know quiet pops up and the security the security expectations on applications using Co-op Pub sub and what kind of policies need to be hosted um though that's the part where I would definitely need more input um as I do not have as much experience or examples as I do for mqtt for instance for the co-op pops up what policies could look like um that needs to be hosted at KDC so I don't want to Omit things just because I I lack the example um and there might be other people who could provide the examples okay okay right so um so let's start where we are where where we can head and see um how we can do um which are the co-author of that the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "working um of that document the first slide Francesca okay but that's the only you and Francesca yes apparently I mean definitely uh if I don't think I neither Francesca nor I mind if there if there is other people who would like to join the co-author list I mean with Marcos reviews we can definitely add him uh as a co-author because he's made such useful suggestions or you know with his reviews already which some of which were addressed um uh and uh recorded in GitHub okay so that I mean um you deal with Marco um but if we need to find out uh additional resources um please let me know and um okay just to make sure the document can be moved forward Softly yes okay right to fold in more people would be to announce the design team meeting so so Marco and you and hopefully Francesca would be part of that meeting but other people could too could also be part of that meeting and also make their suggestions I don't know if this is helping or a team but I would at least propose considering it okay excellent yeah it might be helpful okay right so next slides um I think it's um Marco which one do you want first probably the group com yes exactly that was not in the agenda you proposed already but I think it was um good to brief a few uh recent points that happened around these two drafts uh but it's pretty short um next slide please already oops oh Magic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:04",
    "text": "okay okay yeah this is what I have in on Kiger com um is still an ad review of course and there were no changes since um the the latest version produced in September and just to mention that um we had a discussion about a very particular Point here during the September interim with them and the two of us followed up with the private exchange and that resulted in in me creating a GitHub issue uh which is still there uh proposing a new text uh for a particular paragraph and the idea was basically to relax the requirements on the inclusion of one parameter um in the joining response from the KDC it has always been a must because we couldn't imagine reason to really omit it but then brought up a good reason uh for for the pub sub profile uh we're having that parameter wooden heart functionality but it would be a sub-optimal in terms of performance so if you check the issue there is a new alternative text a change in the mass to assured and adding a sentence clarifying good cases where it should still be included and under which uh prerequisites so the issue is there uh now my proposal would be to not rush um implementing the issue in the document as submitting yet another revision just to not confuse Paul and instead waiting wait for the ad review and when it comes uh I can very easily um address this point and that new text as part of the ad review addressing uh unless this is very urgent but yeah I don't think so and for consistency of course a sentence in KIRO kamoskar uh will need to be updated to uh to state explicit that in that case that parameter must be included but yeah that can also happen"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "later on when the changing key group come happens in the first place so is it okay to wait for addressing this issue in the draft yeah to my perspective you can wait or simply simply push it um and uh or ask Paul if he's finer just you're pushing it but uh either ways are fine for me yeah then then I'll take it when I get Paul's review and it will be part of the processing it's not urgent anyway okay the issue with propose text is there thank you yeah on kegelcom Oscar it's in um waiting for shipper right up and record accepted to uh to Shepherd this document uh he's on it already but with the review and the write-up uh I've had another look at the document myself I don't know if he needs to to fix and and this this big part here with that figure is actually something that Carson noted one day where we were working on on totally different things uh there's a mistake in that example and the the map Keys um within the blue frame are supposed to be uh noted with double quotes uh not with single quotes uh so that's just something wrong to be fixed uh well after that fix of course uh we would need to still convey the message that uh only temporarily until publication for convenience we indicate those map Keys a texturing while the final intention is to have uh them using the sibo integer abbreviation uh so I I dig into all their documents and noted for example the Oscar profile before it was published srfc until the last version of its draft uh had that kind of sentence in the terminology section and we can add something like that in this document too um yeah I can totally address these points including this last one uh when"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "processing the shepherd review of course so that we produce a version that can be submitted with this fixed would be that okay I guess yeah sure okay okay so what's next uh we need to wait for the shepherd review and we'll have a version 16 submitted addressing whatever comments and those needs that I mentioned before and just to be sure this is not forgotten and I'm fine whatever the decision is is just not my decision uh earlier this year Francesca suggested that this is document was sent to the isg for the ASG convenience and together with two other um core documents so the exact way to implement this may be open to interpretation about the chairs pushing the request publication button or a responsible ad holding on their list cam documents I I don't know uh but I just wanted to raise this up and and probably it's good anyway if the ace and core shares um sync on this before proceeding I have the feeling that this Ace document would be the first one of the three um really ready with its next version yeah so um just to think to to make sure we're in sync um what uh I think the co-chairs are casting and you and Jaime okay I I stay out of this as I'm involved in all three documents okay but um so then castan how do you see the synced because to me um I I'd like to know I'm expecting to to ship it to the ad and say um he has to sync with the the other document is it a good way to to do or do you prefer any other well my working group chair view is somewhere buried in in my head so I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "would have to look these two documents and then the current status up again but yes indeed this these could be shipped uh to the ad with uh uh Shepherd comment that these are meant to be clustered with the two other documents which are coming out um well not next week um but uh in in reasonable time okay so in any case I would see the the core chairs um to keep them aware of what we're doing and we have different uh different ads so um yeah one one thing that is occasionally done in cases like this is that um an idea of a different area um of one of the two areas takes over the whole cluster uh so we we have an uh a common view on this so this is at least something that that should be mentioned as a possibility um so I don't want to push anyone doing it this way but it has turned out to be beneficial to do that in in the past cases okay yes so yeah what I see is that um where where when so at the time we will have addressed the shepherd review uh I I will try to Ping the the two ads and the multiple the working group chairs um and in my case I have um no opinion on who Hades should take that over and I think if we are the first to be to be ready um it's gonna be on the shoulders of the core chairs to say when the full cluster"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "is ready right so okay so we have a way to proceed yeah so the first thing would be to send a head up heads up to the two IDs uh that this cluster is is heading towards them and it would be good to think about a good way to to handle it okay right the the draft being um um those three ones yes and the one okay okay right perfect we'll do so thank you okay go ahead on that so notification token I think you have to make a choice maybe uh yeah that one and it's shorter and simpler [Laughter] definitely and I'll try to be quick uh yes an update on remote token notification next slide please to rack up uh this is addressing the case that was not addressed before where tokens can be revoked before they reach the natural exploration for a number of reason and there was no way or easy way for the interested parties to to learn about that the best thing around was introspection that is limited to the resource server with the number of limitations so here we are defining um essentially interface at the authorization server that both client and resource server can use um to learn about revoke but not yet expired access tokens pertaining them um issuing a get to a dedicated resource at the authorization server or more conveniently observing it to obtain automatic notifications and this is not intended to be a replacement for introspection but it complements it nicely and there's no need for new resources or endpoints at the client and resource ever"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "uh next slide please yeah I showed this before but this is now aligned with latest updates we've also made uh this can be used with two modes of operation uh the first one has to be supported by the AES and it allows a client or resource server to really um obtain the full list of revoked access tokens pertaining to to that client or resource server uh well the second mode of operation um div query allows the client or resource server to obtain a list of updates that were made to that token revocation list or the pertaining portion of that list for that client and resource server and this query mode in turn can be used with a further additional and optional course or extension such that the list of updates to retrieve um does not necessarily consist in the most recent updates occurred but the client resource server can fetch uh the latest update starting from a specified resumption Point through cures so and that was the result of last discussion we had back then with Ben keduck used to be a third query mode of its own we conclude that it's really an extension of the second one okay uh next slide please and I think a lot happened since uh March in Vienna when we presented the draft for the last time we had two more revisions since then uh also thanks to yet another review we received from from Marcos sorry uh next slide please and just to summarize what happened uh during the um the revision uh yeah the use of the course on from a third mode of it some became an extension of the second uh diff query mode and the content and concerning it was moved up to the um document body although it required that spreading different parts of that content and into a different"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "section and as also discussed in in Vienna actually we concluded that um even if a little less efficient it's way easier to understand and to implement to have all the messages from the authorization server at least from that resource um to have a c board map as payload so that of course produce a number of additional case and coordinate cases to to handle that that we did and I also wanted to mention that some editorial fixes and included also suggestions on the pr from from David Navarro that also contributed uh next slide please thanks uh yeah for uh the London meeting we actually produced yet another revision considering also the review uh from Marco and we further improved the possible use of the cursor extension in order to admit um a rep around of the index used um as practical cursor that was not supported yet and now it is so in principle that this pattern can go on uh forever just nicely handled in case of referral that of course required to introduce some more common stance and internal parameters to the AES to to keep track of that and manage that um correctly on top of that uh just just clarifications uh next slide please um so what's left we definitely still need to add an example of messages message exchanges where the query mode is used also with the with the cursor extension uh I noted when I submitted the revision for London that there are now a number of parameters and constants specified in the document just in line at some point the first time they are needed but it can become difficult to to keep all of them in the reader mind cache uh so I was planning an additional appendix where they are all put together and overviewed and the relation with one another if any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "um is stressed and I also had a number of security considerations in mind that are not discussed yet in in the related sections and I plan to add um so our goal for uh the Yokohama meeting would be to try to address all these points uh for a new revision four and if we manage and I think so and if no more open points and issues come up we may actually have a version for eligible um for a working group plus call I'm confident okay good so in no major point to biggest discuss eyes as I see so we can move to the next document you have two minutes do you think sorry I had a question I actually had a question but maybe this we can take this offline but I had a question about the group called proxygraph isn't that also related to the cluster isn't that the same cluster or is that well it's not the document that Francesca mentioned in that context no that's right but but I thought it was sort of we need to have that in order to complete the group com Core Group contrast right so do do we just need it to complete the thing uh is is it actually uh prerequisite to have for writing Edge I mean it doesn't round out the cluster or is it is it really dependent I don't I don't think it depends on it okay so it's maybe the other one it's uh it's uh considerable extension to Groupon base but I don't think it builds a a dependency uh to be related to this set of documents okay personally uh just checking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "thanks because it's way behind that's why I was thinking right and and that's my fault okay yeah okay so I I don't think we have time to go through that presentation um if it works for you Daniel we can resume from from here in the January meeting and of course you know that we wait for that to to work on this but yeah yeah this requires more time yeah yeah that's uh one thing so okay right so um so we can do that um and also you can use the meeting list um if you want to raise some issues um so I think what would we well the point I see is that we we're trying to make progress on the pub sub um and uh I'm pretty confident that we can um make quite um I don't see anything that should prevent us um to have a working group last call for the token draft so maybe this one is um um should be discussed a little bit more um during the next interim meeting um e-doc maybe Garn you want to say something on edoc yeah well I mean we're over time now and I need to leave for another meeting so maybe we can bring that up also in the in the next meeting okay right okay so thank you for attending this meeting and um see you next into our meeting thank you bye-bye bye-bye thank you bye"
  }
]
