[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "[Music] hi folks and welcome to spring at ATF 106 if we get started if possible please because we have as usual a fairly packed agenda and as of yet I don\u0027t remember us having ever run to time on the agenda this is the note well given that we\u0027re Monday morning then maybe you haven\u0027t seen it already if you haven\u0027t seen already please read through it and if not if you have please be aware of it please note it well we have a shipping\u0027s going to help us with the minutes and I think if you case any would as well if we could do with the jabber scribe though if anybody would like to volunteer for that since I\u0027m being quiet I know it might be a shock and I\u0027m being quiet okay the minutes can be collaborative the etherpad is linked here because it\u0027s got an ipv4 literal in the URL there it links to you now rather than etherpad iit after dog so you can find it either linked from the slides that we uploaded or in the minutes did we have any volunteers for a Java subscribe know anybody who\u0027s willing to relay questions from Jabba please so we\u0027re gonna be blocked on continuing the meeting to get to by having somebody to do this please because it\u0027s kind of important to allow remote participants to be able to collaborate with us here and this is one of the ways that people ask questions so it would be I can do have anybody who has a jabber client that\u0027s willing to to relay questions please okay Martin\u0027s made some noises so we\u0027ll assume that that\u0027s able to be enough I\u0027ll try and jump on as well and one small update but has been exceptionally useful for helping burn I pull together this meeting and we now have a secretary thank you very much shipping for your your efforts here she has immensely helped us build the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:12",
    "text": "materials and the agenda together for this meeting so thank you very much indeed yeah so some updates about the working group in general there is this large cluster of documents see with 3:40 that\u0027s in the RFC editors queue we are the majority of them are now in all 48 and they include some of the you know pretty key documents that we\u0027ve had we\u0027ve had for a while including those that sort of initiated spring so some of the work like the the MPLS draft and then the IGP extensions our support the base sr functionality there now all in the RFC editors q I think there\u0027s essentially a lot of these are linked together and blocked on the same documents so once Earth\u0027s 48 is done on all of these and there I think there\u0027s only the epe that might be the epen ones which are both IDR drafts and maybe the beach pls one that\u0027ll have other reference dependencies but once this is done then we\u0027ll be done with the you know the kind of key SR MPLS documents being standardized which is an awesome milestone for that for the working group and something that I know where folks have been involved it for the last three or four years so I think hopefully next time when were in Vancouver we\u0027ll be able to to have all these RFC numbers baked in and to take a little time to congratulate the working group on having standardized SR MPLS finally we have a number of active working group drafts some of which that we\u0027ve adopted since the last meeting the to service programming and nsh documents have been have been adopted since then we then have the past segments work the work on SR policy and the work on the yang model that continued to be kind of progressed and living working group documents and then the SI v6 network programming draft which we have an update on today we have a couple of adoption calls that were hoping to kick off after the meeting one of them on the replication segment Dan\u0027s draft there and then G\u0027s draft on the enhanced VPN capability as usual as we go through adoption call it\u0027d be really great to get some technical reviews on these documents so that we\u0027ve got you know got we\u0027ve we\u0027ve vetted them as as they come into the working group and become working group documents as is the case has been the case for the last few meetings spring continues to coordinate with a bunch of different working groups and since the last meeting we\u0027ve we\u0027ve discussed with a couple of other working groups where some documents live the performance measurement and the empathy in situations will be handled in MPLS because these are both documents that really relate only the MPLS data plane and we didn\u0027t we didn\u0027t necessarily feel that it needed to be hosted in spring for the draft draft and the this is work "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:18",
    "text": "that we discuss with I ppm and it will be they would prefer that we host it in spring so spring Wilkin will as this document progresses and and it\u0027s presented and and updated then we\u0027ll continue to have it in the spring working group so coming on to the large amount of discussion that we\u0027ve had on the mailing list since the last meeting first off thank you for the active discussion it\u0027s good to see that their mailing list continues to be to be useful I think for a few meetings we\u0027ve before before this we\u0027ve had fairly quiet time on the mailing list so it\u0027s good to see that we had some active discussion the discussion there Bruno and I and and and Bruno just discussed with Martha we wanted to sort of take take some takeaways from that discussion and I think we continue to have some consensus around si v6 both operators and vendors have are interested in the way that using si v6 in its current form and there was kind of no strong indicators that this isn\u0027t something that we should progress so what we\u0027d like to do is to continue to progress this work especially it\u0027s you know it\u0027s been it\u0027s been work that\u0027s been progressing in this working group for a number of a number of years and there was though some interest to look at active reducing their header size for use cases that need many SIDS and both operators and vendors within the working group showed showed some interest there our observations are there several solutions for that on the table and there\u0027s at least six works at micro side work that we heard about in the last meeting about the examples of that but what we kind of felt was the ahead of time of like choosing between those those different documents and and looking at the the way that we want to progress this this kind of specific use case then we need to be explicit about what the goals and the costs of each of those proposals are so the what we were inviting authors to do is to be explicit and explicit on both of these things with their documents so we can whilst these documents continue to evolve you know as as individual drafts we\u0027re kind of clear what the benefits and the costs of each of them and now our a real push here is that let\u0027s is to try and complete the si v6 work that we have that we\u0027ve engaged with six men on the the working groups been working on and use the learnings there to try and guide some of these future decisions as to what the next steps after that to maybe address some of these large assets that should be pretty high purity Kampala is it the best approach for the IDF to complete SR v6 before really digging into these other proposals or is it better for us to actually look at all of them and see if maybe there\u0027s something there that either we come back to us our v6 and do it slightly differently or maybe even say that\u0027s not completely the best approach but I think if we block all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:20",
    "text": "they block any solution on having the best solution then the ITF would never iterate on anything right so they I think the problem is that there are folks that III I mean it was pretty clear across the comments and on the mailing list that their folks are using this this technology so it\u0027s not unusable if we publish it so it kind of feels like it\u0027s a reasonable thing to say hey let\u0027s let\u0027s make sure that the bits that we are standardizing and that I think we should be open to saying there\u0027s parts of the si v6 solution that we don\u0027t need to standardize right now because they\u0027re not key and then we have a stake in the ground for a solution one and then we start looking at solution two otherwise we might block solution two on solution three and henceforth forever I guess I wasn\u0027t saying block anything I was saying more like get a little past little further down the path of what\u0027s right and what\u0027s wrong about the current approach and what are the things we want to fix and if we then say the current approach is fine then go ahead with that but the idea that we complete this and use the learning from this to inform the rest is fine but I think we could actually go a little further down the path of doing that and I think I think absolutely should continue to examine these are the bits of work I think what we\u0027re just saying is that spring the what we\u0027d like to do is that the chairs and the and the ATF spring is to allow that to happen not necessarily in the framework of them being working group drafts okay all right thanks Darren Dukes from Cisco I\u0027m just to reiterate that what you said there there are a lot of deployments I mean that this stuff is deployed it\u0027s working it\u0027s functional it\u0027s implemented multiple vendors the standardization of it by this working group is seems to be obvious at this point press RB six hi Andrew Robb my concern with this approach on that last bullet point is that you end up creating a potential situation where some work is potentially hostage to other work because it effectively says that if you want to advance other work you have to agree to advance this first and effectively rubber stamp it because by not doing that and stalling this because you don\u0027t fundamentally agree with something in it you end up in a situation where you are preventing advancement of your own work by standing in opposition to something that you don\u0027t agree with it creates a very very difficult situation if a draft is out there where you have a problem with it but you know that you want to advance something else but to advance the other thing you have to shut up and be silent because you know that it\u0027s not going to proceed in the context of the working group until the other one is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:20",
    "text": "finalized that is problematic the problem I think I\u0027d like to make an observation here um sov six is not new right it\u0027s not it\u0027s not something that\u0027s that is landing in the working group now and we\u0027re reviewing today it\u0027s something that there has been consensus of this working group to adopt and that\u0027s how this you know the ITF process works we work through consensus so and consensus will necessarily consensus doesn\u0027t say absolute agreement from everybody it says you know rough consensus and here we have rough consensus from what we can tell we had at the time and it doesn\u0027t seem like the the mood in the room is that there isn\u0027t consensus for us every six I understand that there\u0027s other solutions they\u0027re being proposed but it seems like there\u0027s a rough consensus and running code so at this point I think it\u0027s very difficult to argue that we shouldn\u0027t we shouldn\u0027t progress it now to move on to the point if is this blocking other work I don\u0027t think it has to be I think we\u0027re saying here that the like if you look at how SR mpls and sov six actually let\u0027s just talk about sur MPLS because it\u0027s less controversial SRM pls progressed outside of having a working group that was the adopter adopted it and had a running code way before that time and this it didn\u0027t stop that solution progressing right and at the time that SR MPLS was was in opposition to RSVP and we had the same kind of discussion so I don\u0027t necessarily see that this is any different in the in the pattern of there is consensus to continue working on something that\u0027s there there is an alternative approach and we can continue to iterate on them Tinky shot from future well I just want to make a comment that the IETF works on certain principles and processes and one of those processes is that a working group would work based on the Charter and if you look at the current spring Charter in the very first sentence it says that this working group is there to work on SR MPLS and SR v6 that\u0027s the first point the second point is the very next paragraph says that we should not be working on anything that is incompatible in the data plane with the existing solutions that we\u0027re working on and clearly some of these other solutions are not compatible with SR v6 so can we just follow the process and if other work wants to be done use the right IETF process go get at your own working group change the Charter do whatever it is you need to do but please don\u0027t bypass the process Garan from Cisco one more comment on that process is that we\u0027ve we\u0027ve done that process for SR MPLS and SR v6 it\u0027s reasonable we have we have an architecture we have a lot of maturity if these other solutions you know want to progress at the very least they need to define why they are better and why "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:21",
    "text": "this working group should be interested in them and that should happen in some sort of separate document right now there\u0027s no there\u0027s no justification for these other solutions that are that are kind of floating out there besides with the working groups currently chartered for so I think the authors of those things need to seriously consider building that documentation to justify their work I think that\u0027s true of all proposals right it\u0027s not just true of alternative proposals is its it should be true of amendments to existing proposals and I think we should also remember that the documents that we\u0027ve adopted as the working group are not individually owned anymore right they\u0027re owned by the working group so things that go into working group documents should be by consensus of the working group not by consensus of the authors as the way if that work Ron sorry okay first a clarifying question for the chairs oh you send it to things in bold print we should continue on SRB sex I agree with that and let\u0027s complete as rv6 mentioned is the degree to which other solutions are blocked all other solution was again floor time will they be able to ask for full time I think if you look at the agendas over the last ni etf\u0027s I think the majority powerful time is not occupied by working group drafts and so absolutely we are have been giving individual drafts time in the working group and I would see that if there\u0027s if it\u0027s of relevance to spring then and especially if there\u0027s discussion of them on the mailing list then that would be it\u0027s fine to have floor time in this working group I think I think that\u0027s the discussion that that will have to have right I think in in general where we have it isn\u0027t clear to me that we\u0027ve got a good pattern that says ok this is the you know the level of benefit that one has to have demonstrated to adopt something different you know it\u0027s actually at the moment we don\u0027t really have a huge amount of competing solutions that we\u0027re looking to adopt right and maybe where we did like the nsh draft and the the service programming draft we\u0027ve you know taking them on their own merits we\u0027ve had a technical discussion to say okay what does this work solve and what does this work soften we\u0027ve adopted both so I don\u0027t think adoption is blocked I think but I think we do have to have consensus of the group that is that is something that\u0027s been turned into a robot again please unfortunately didn\u0027t get any "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:22",
    "text": "better does anybody haven\u0027t some I am channel with with Ron so that they could proxy perhaps one if you type it to me then maybe I can just relay it because we can\u0027t hear you at all there\u0027s something ironic about being at the ITF and not having working I mean stay connected just remind me where you\u0027re typing it so that I can find it oh I\u0027m texting it to you stick it on text I\u0027ve got my phone with me so okay so one just wants to clarify that fair enough adoption calls are not out of the question I think that\u0027s right thanks and adoption calls there I think that we I\u0027d like I add option will be gated as usual on consensus of the working group Oh master Vigo relaying Java John does adoption require a charter update he didn\u0027t say adopting which document or I was making a general comment about adoption so if there\u0027s a charter update required then that\u0027s something that needs to be discussed with the 80s and and - okay so we have a fairly packed agenda today we\u0027re starting out with the SIV six network programming draft okay so good morning everyone so my name is Pablo I\u0027m just going to do an update on draft idea of the spring as Harvey six network programming and so a bit of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:24",
    "text": "the bit of summary on the draft status so the first revision of this draft was published in March 2017 we have gone through eight revisions and individual draft and we have gone through six revisions our working group document throughout all of these revisions the job has been a stable and they\u0027re having minor changes but significantly since the last idea we got a lot of comments from all the Spring community I\u0027m going to review them today so the first review that we have seen is Montrell so revision two in this tribution what we have done is we have done an integration with the segment routing header we had already anticipated that we would need to do this this editorial update and basically this consists in two parts first in all the section for all the soda codes for the different behaviors happen were written following the same format as in the segment routing header and then in the section 3 we have replaced many of the existing texts in network programming by text from the segment routing header which was already covering it so with us already good then we have also removed three sections from the draft the first is the end that is behavior this was a behavior that was at least quite amateur and it was research items so it\u0027s not a part of this draft anymore and then also we had to section some segment routing our applications and known segment routing our applications in the sense of how we are going to bind a segment to an application now these two sections of the segment routing our unknown segment right now we\u0027re are covered in the draft idea of Spring Service programming so just to avoid overlapping we removed it from district then we went into rebus and three in revision three what we have done is we have moved the transit behaviors that relied on sorry insertion into a new separate graph so this graph is an individual drop so draft visa spring is a v6 net PGM insertion and the these transit behaviors with insertion are already deployed and are working but there\u0027s an ongoing debate with six-month so we just moved in into a separate individual draft and we also moved as well the by Nasik with insertion into this document then in remission for we added also some detail updates so mainly we did some clarifications on the difference in between the SR b6 it function and their behavior so the behavior is going to be the actual pseudocode that you are going to execute and the seed function is the the bit string that is actually bound to a particular behavior then following up from discussions that we have in Montrell we have also updated the encapsulation when we are good doing either in it so when we have an either netting absolution before we were using the snakes header value at v6 no next either 59 so there was a discussion during Montrell whether these values should be used or not we had a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:25",
    "text": "discussion at the mailer with with six men on a screen and the outcome was that we should request a new value for either on it so that\u0027s what we did and also in the Security section of network programming on section 7 we had security considerations for intradomain deployments with the security rules sequence x 2 6 3 by the time that we publish the first revision of the graph these were not covered by the then over time this was being a cover with more depth in the segment routing header and we just have replaced the entire security section with intradomain deployments in our reference for the Sigma routing header the last update that is that the current version is a region 5 we have done some more editorial updates to the text we have fixed a typo on the USD flavor so the USD flavor is allowed 2d capsulate any IP payload other whether it is ipv4 or ipv6 and then on the Ethernet we also did some clarifications particularly regarding the preamble and the frame check sequence just mentioning that these are going to be a strip before we are encapsulating them regarding this Ethernet is also important for the working group to note that we have requested the earlier location and this is I\u0027m going with it sirs and 80s so I beat the feedback from the community that we got in Montreal and after so we got a lot of discussion on the next header 59 as I have just explained we we actually took this aside we change the value for Ethernet and that\u0027s it with extension header insertion we have decided to move this to a separate draft and just focus on sundries and network programming without it the addressing space examples this was a comment that was raised by Lorentz and gender in the last ITF that was that in network programming we had some examples that were using different sizes of prefixes and it could be misleading so what we have just done is removed these examples because they are not being funded for the standard and then we had the definition of effective next header in the draft we have actually replaced that for upper layer header as in the segment routing header I beat the industry stages for the for draft and running code so we have eight open-source implementations three of them are a packet processing a stack so kind of Linux kernel DVP we have some open source applications and then if we move into the hardware we have 18 Hardware implementations and these implementations are from a different vendors and it\u0027s including American silicon these implementations have participated in different interrupts events so in Sikkim 2017 NTC 2018 and 2019 and we are already working on the NTC 2020 where we will have more vendors coming to the Interop as well "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:26",
    "text": "and then finally from a deployment perspective we have a spurt today seven deployments that our life that are currently carrying a traffic of millions of subscribers this is a Softbank China Telecom Iliad line and any concern to an empty anaconda most of these deployments will all of these opponents have happened in 2019 most of them in the second half and there are also a few more deployments that are have not been publicly disclosed by the world we have a more than 10 so given that the changes are deep trough a happy minor so run in RFC 8200 address a text that says that regardless of the order of extensional headers on regardless of their number of presences or the number of occurrences in a packet we have to process them so in SRV six network programming we are not suggesting to craft a packet with two extension with two segment outing headers but if we receive a packet that has two segments routing heather\u0027s we must process it as per RFC 8200 so could you add some text 8,200 saying that a packet should not contain two railing errors but you will process it if it does but there the draft is not suggesting to craft a packet with two segment rocking headers well actually if you read the terminologies that suggestion okay now we can discuss that animator on sentence necessity on that mount and multiple suresh what would be the order of processing multiple headers just there lexicographical or basically the order how they insert it in a packet I think that make it explicit basically I understand that implicitly we all understand that it will be processed in this way but explain it that if segments left:0 in first header what happens then just a quick comment on that Greg Darrin from Cisco 8200 does say to process them in the order received Soni okay I think that\u0027s already covered "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:28",
    "text": "but you think they\u0027re do you think there needs to be something else you you\u0027re certainly welcome to suggested okay thank you is whether you can always skip over the routing header when the segment\u0027s left is equal to zero or do you still need to look at the tags flags and do these can you so what network programming is that finding is how you are going to process the segment routing header the order in which you are processing all the different headers it\u0027s a defined in RFC 8200 it\u0027s not part of network programming okay so what you\u0027re saying that is if segments left equals zero you may ignore if sec my left is equal to zero we do not process the segment routing header okay excellent excellent Darrin from Cisco yeah I think I think we I think we\u0027re going to need text to describe that behavior because I don\u0027t think that\u0027s necessarily the case as to how that is tell that header gets processed so I may need that something there the Farley Rana comment is more applicable to onm onm draft does explain that it was discussed on the mailing list when segment where AM packet receive is segment less equal to 0 and if orbit is set and if the deal with we process them so this was discussed on the meaning Lester on ok then I think we have a bit of a conflict I\u0027m not sure who said than 8,200 required to skip over the rounding error when segments left equals 0 but we need to figure out what the rule actually yes let\u0027s discuss this in the context of an M draft this is described in Windham graph we can have more discussion but it\u0027s not something the network programming is never per it doesn\u0027t affect Metropole Amin so we\u0027ll start lights : yeah I think so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:36",
    "text": "next he\u0027s come on hi I am sonal Agarwal I\u0027m one of the new co-authors on this draft and I\u0027m working with Cam Ranh so just as a high-level overview this draft was first presented in IETF 100 but I\u0027m just a quick overview it has the SR DC so this draft was first presented in IETF 100 but there are three yang models in this draft a high-level overview is the base model which defines the management and configuration of the SR v6 subsystem so it defines things like locators said all the counters the path and the path list among various other data structures and basically this model is augmented by other SR v6 technology models and then we have the static model which allows user to program locators and sets in the forwarding plane so these are the three models the types base and static and the types yang model defines all the various and functionality types that we have so that\u0027s just some history on when the draft was first posted and we had another presentation in 101 and this is the third presentation and in from 101 to 106 we\u0027ve had some revision changes some major updates and cleanups which I will talk about and also some minor updates and cleanups so some of the major ones are adding a lot of new and functionalities which have all been added to the types young model and adding similar changes to the static model and also some data structure changes from feedback we received from various operators and co-authors and then some minor cleanup changes of revisions and referencing other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:36",
    "text": "documents and some language changes so some of the different and functionalities that we\u0027ve added our OEM in SR policy we\u0027ve added a couple we\u0027ve added several USD variants and we\u0027ve added a VPN and functionality and all these have been added to types and some have been added to static as well one of the major data structure changes we\u0027ve had to convert enums to identities and we\u0027ve done that for s our v6 transit types where we have a hierarchical representation of the parent and all the children identities and we\u0027ve done that for security type and for counter types as well we\u0027ve added a grouping the SR v6 and cap grouping and then a hierarchical container sahi in caps Cindy I just have one comment on that you didn\u0027t comment AC Linda my Cisco Systems we did that in the base for a lot of things we thought would need to be augmented because unfortunately the Yankee Nam tie is not augmenta below it really forces you to use identities and this will help in the future two more add boring functions with augmentations so this was just we a new encapsulation hierarchical representation of hop limit and traffic class and this is just a small example of what we have done for evpn in the static model just an example of the yang to program this in the forwarding plane so the next steps for the drafts that we\u0027re looking at we\u0027re asking for work group adoption and this model will also be aligned with the SR v6 base model and we would welcome working group feedback for to take this forward with this working group and that\u0027s it for the update who\u0027s ready to draft we believe it\u0027s a good start for working up document anyone believe it\u0027s not a good start for working different okay thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:36",
    "text": "the next Cameron\u0027s gonna talk about the SR policy he\u0027ll model just to summarize about 15% raid on supporting the draft on nobody objected hello everyone my name is Cameron I\u0027m going to present a third policy yang list of quarter is listed here on the main side so this is basically first time or your present in this draft is a yang data model for assertive imaging policies to configure instantiate and manage those policies this model is aligned with the assault policy main document in the spin working group and it generally applies to both MPLS and the services that a plane institution of the policies across these two data planes so in terms of modules we have defined two modules in this yang one defines the base side policy types to define some of the common types and basic types that we want to use across across our models as well as beyond our model and the main module is called I TFS our policy module which defines a model for the self policy configuration and the management in the policy types module basically we have defined you know some of some of the key things that we have defined is basically different data plane types user cost the policies seat types segment types segment types aligns to a cell policy main draft about 11 type of segments that are defined there and if that policy changes to use named segments or name based segment types we\u0027re gonna align our model accordingly but right now the model is just aligned with what is the current revision of their draft which is out there and we also define different things for the binding set and the protocol origin type in terms of the state various type of states that is listed in our policy architecture graph is also incorporated in our yang model which basically burning steady state policy state path state and any any reasons for a path candidate path not being used or policy being down and whatnot so if we really you know take a thousand feet view of the hierarchy of this over model really we have a segment on traffic engineering as a top container and within that we have two sub trees one is like attribute related tree and other is really related to the policies attributes are really the common attributes are costs used across policies examples are affinity maps segment lists some binding state related rules and the policy has really you know is a tree that to keep a per policy configuration and management model and within that policy there are some policy specific stuff and then the candidate a path sub tree and in candidate path could be an explicit or a candidate path or an or dynamic type of explicit path so zooming in a double-clicking into "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:38",
    "text": "these sub trees so the attribute tree really has an affinity map a segment list and segment lists can define any type of segment from the base policy document and then we have explicit binding said rule that whether you want to do allocate explicit binding set from srl B you want you to enforce it you want it to fall back on dynamic and whatnot so everything that is an SR policy document is part of this young model in the attribute section if you go to the policy sub sub tree of this this module then the within policy we have you know a policy key which is color endpoint as per our architecture you can also have a name based policy tree if you want there\u0027s a administrate priority of the policy and then the candidate path zooming into candidate path canada paths keys as as as far as our policy architecture document which is protocol origin originator discriminator and the prayer and the discriminator and you can also have a preference and name for the for a candidate path it\u0027s not mandatory but but if you you choose to and within the candidate path you have an explicit candidate path type or dynamic Canada path type within explicit candidate path type you can specify one or more segments list which is defined in the attribute section of the of the of the model and then for the dynamic I think this is the major mentioned we made in the last revision of the draft we did not have the dynamic attributes in the our first version of the policy draft a young young draft so we added some dynamic attributes and constraint into a draft to cater for dynamic type of a candidate path and also along with that we goes with the management of these things an operational State operational State is is basically pertaining to the policy state as well as well as candidate path state and the reason for for something being odd not being available or being down I\u0027ll let you look at the door later on we also added some modification of other some important even related to the Assad policy management which are really related to the status of the policy the candidate path active status as well as change of candidate path or one being selected over the other and whatnot as well as if there\u0027s a collision about the explicit binding state events that\u0027s also captured in our model we have few pending items which are really related to traffic string and odeon templates having said that there\u0027s also a companion document which is BGP SRT yang which we also have submitted an idea as that document already captures this traffic string as well as odn templates so I think waters will be working with authors of the other draft to see how we can align both of them together the other draft align augments our policy draft and we might have some RPC action in feature as well so really as a next step this document has been around for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:39",
    "text": "multiple ideas now first time you have a chance to present this mainly because of tight spring agenda I think our document is a good good shape it is totally aligned with over a third policy main document in segments working a spring working group and we are asking for a working a working group adoption of our SR policy and graft in this ITF and also looking forward to any feedback and working group you know input on over document to make it enhance it further that\u0027s it any questions I\u0027m shot ahead ray from juniper go back to the tree yeah this one this one the attributes yeah so this there is it this attribute section and affinity map so is it like you\u0027re modeling this SR policy as a link is that is that is it why there is this affinity map here I think the affinity map is yes for some of this dynamic constraint that you want to add to the policy having said that we have received this input as well that some of this could be leveraged from existing tt modeling I guess and we are we are looking forward to see that how we can align with the color yes about constraints yes who is read the draft notice a number 15% who believes it\u0027s a good start for working on document some number it is not a good start for working with document thank you thank you next is Gregor I believe it yeah okay good morning I\u0027m attention from China Mobile and here we give we have to draft wise for the unifying see the use key style as the other is for the solution and we combine the both presentation together in this society and further unified City I think we just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:39",
    "text": "wanted to give some brief ideas here so from the operative point of view I think is as other six give a record the solution and we should appreciate it as a basic working group here and but when we consider to deploy as five six we met some challenge so here I just want to give some our understanding on that the first point is that if we want to develop the deployer new as a v6 Network we the first thing we should consider is that how we can open the TE traffic solution we in fact for us the pastor I felt the solution is enough so as I have six for us the most important thing is how we can deploy the tea is not be the only solution is not over the solution so if we want to support writer for the tea solution we have to consider how many hops in the path we should give the constraint and currently pissed on our understanding at least ten library seats should be included in the as I each hider because we have to give the clear pass in most case for the high-end requirement so here I just given more than eight segments in SH should be support this is I I collected a lot of different requirements from several operators the similar requirement under the asking is that currently we have already deployed and ipv6 for several years so if we need reapplying the ipv6 address that would be bad and the other thing that we have a too big existing network we hope based on existing hardware we can support the basic as a v6 solution so we want as a v6 it\u0027s a friendly for the hardware is that friendly for the existing network so here the problem we want to give is that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:39",
    "text": "the over height of the as a Mystics when we consider 10 seats in the as I H that\u0027s a huge override only 60% payload that can be carried by that that is a terrible and a compared to the as I am Paris even 10 seats we still can\u0027t get more than 90% over a payload so as a v6 if we want to support 80 in the bigger network that is really hard and what we rise to unify the city we want to solve the problem and we wanted to deploy that in our existing night work in a pistol on the discussion this morning I think we respect the current as a v6 work I think that is great work so the principle for us to develop the unified Seder the first one is we keep the compliant with the standard as I age that\u0027sthat\u0027s great idea and the other thing is that we want to keep complaint with as a v6 programming or as a v6 operation that\u0027s all so that\u0027s our principle and here I give a picture and we change the receiver side how would our ingenue as a v6 handling and the blue box is original and for currently I think in ATF group we have several alternative we to improve the as a basics processing I give a green box so each of them needs some transforming summon needs 50 the state of shifting some needed citizen stitching and what we provided we want to have a mapping table to solve the problem because you know for the switching or wanting cheap it\u0027s very hard to support a complicated logic to precise the SRH but it\u0027s very easy to support some looking up table to support it because it have resources they\u0027re so pissed on our understand even Clinton can support it we will give some Pusey "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:41",
    "text": "later and the unify the see the format is of a very simple we will support something like NPR\u0027s labor to support the state and the basically format of labor is that we will use reuse the existence eat assignment for as I am peers it makes it easy to upgrade from assign peers to as a v6 it also can be used for the existing network that already has ipv6 address assigned and it doesn\u0027t they have enough new ipv6 address prefixes for as a v6 seat it can use the transmittances as looking literally per mapping to ipv6 address just like MPs labor and here we have already two different POC wines from a broken program cheaper and the other syntax chips it\u0027s very easy for them to implement it and become only takes three days in the Vista on current AG look to implement their PUC and the solution can support all the current as a v6 functions but the override is totally sim with current as I am Paris it gives us very bigger confident on that so we were given more the Pusey be later and the next step we hope to get more comments suggestions and questions and we also want to ask her one question to our channel if this work can be continuing in 61 group all the spring workable group in future so that\u0027s all thank you I can\u0027t allow liquor Cisco Systems a couple of comments one is I think the proposal is to put a lot of different different mappings into the SRH which was meant for SRB succeed what I\u0027d like to remind is that we have in the spring and mpls working groups develop solutions for ipv6 using mappings or labels so that\u0027s really something that the working group has already solved and addressed so that\u0027s number one so we don\u0027t necessarily need to mix in this way the other second part is that there is a draft for sr b6 and SR MPLS "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:41",
    "text": "interworking it\u0027s not in the working group you know and opted draft or such but like to point to that graph and look for your inputs on that one Gregg mercy City so if I understand your first comment is that there is a ready proposal to do a 70s over IP yes so yes that\u0027s true what we wanted to achieve here or preserve is that what with you as a important benefit of SRH that preserves the path information from the source to the destination and asaram pls in IP as Saran pls does not that do that so that\u0027s what we think that the big differentiator of unified state proposal to use SSH and thus preserve the path information of SR MPLS path which is a benefit okay so if we compare this proposal with the SR MPLS over IP so yes a lot of mechanics are similar between the two but using SRH gives a benefit of path information being available to the egress so one is SRH was is designed to carry SRV succeed I would think just using the header for carrying something different you know is not really the same SRH and the other thing is yeah we have there happened the interworking solutions so we should look at it we can discuss more offline but is that yeah again I kinda find it surprising that you\u0027re insisting that as a race you can carry only specific size of CID but yes let\u0027s discuss I\u0027m sorry just quickly that was not my statement a statement was SRH gary\u0027s SRB succeeds that was the statement i did not talk about the size of okay QT compeller a couple of things one is in the draft you say that this is a way to upgrade from SR v6 to SR MPLS it seems to me that you\u0027re more likely gonna go in the opposite direction because there\u0027s more SR MPLS deployments then there s our v6 so I think it\u0027s useful to talk about that particular option as well or maybe even talk about that first the second thing is you\u0027re saying unified said and you\u0027re talking about SR v6 SRH and you\u0027re talking about SR MPLS "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:45",
    "text": "are you planning in the future to talk about you know having said a couple of times that the SR v6 is very heavy and and kind of big SIDS are you looking at as our m6 as another option within because you only have two bits for your types so you are kind of constrained on what types of I mean this unification the space of unification is limited to four right now so what are you planning the you two talk about maybe how this could interoperate with sr m6 so I think the second question is about our flag I think it the flag here is the indicator what kind of say that we are using in the list and we we just give some proposal if we can use that that is a result beat to represent at that but I don\u0027t think it it\u0027s a broken the as our basics rules there Greg Mirsky City so as one of the conference of this proposal I think it\u0027s a very good suggestion to emphasize that s Aaron pero esto estará v6 is a primary scenario because yes we have more deployed network with the Sorrento s and as a service six or ipv6 networks come up so to extend their programming of their network path using the same mechanics it\u0027s operationally changes in terms of what scenario what can be used using this two-bit flag as you notice I we think that for backward compatibility we need to be compatible with the ipv6 it\u0027s ok so 0 0 is given then we propose to use one of them to be too well to use a certain terrorist case two others are open for discussion even yes of course there will be personal curative type but yes even we are suggesting that one of you be ipv4 it\u0027s open for discussion so again we feel strongly about two cases but two cases are open for discussion so any ideas suggestions welcome Darren Francisco just want to bring up a couple points we have you know RFC 402 which is the s architecture document we have a s our MPLS our v6 interworking draft we\u0027ve got a couple of compression mechanisms that work without any sort of mapping table we have what I think was 18 implementations from 8 different vendors of SR v6 so I guess obviously those "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:45",
    "text": "merchants silicon vendors are implementing SR v6 without a mapping table I\u0027m gonna reiterate something that I said at the beginning and I think that\u0027s applicable to this and the other work that\u0027s going on with SRM 6 is that there\u0027s no description of what this work brings to the table for this working group or for the community large over what\u0027s already defined in RFC s and I think that\u0027s it that\u0027ll be a really good place for you to start is is to find that so we can actually see what the benefits are here ok yep yes thank you in fact as you just mentioned that we have not gives a detailed mapping functions and currently in our POC just looking for table looking up a table but I think it\u0027s a they have a potential that we can develop some more smart way to optimize that okay and would so would you would you be building that that document that goes through the the comparison and the the details and and you know justification for why this work is needed yeah III think I today just we just want to rise this topic and then we will give a further solution or some other detail with the distribution on that engine maybe next meeting oh we also welcome the question at the suggestion and even solution proposal for us thank ok comer\u0027s or Cisco Systems first I found this statement that mapping solution is easier to implement in chip even in existing as a chip I found it interesting but my men and I\u0027m not sure this is quite accurate because you\u0027re an additional map a mapping table you\u0027re talking about in hardware but my main questions about the performance impact so once you have asset mapping table right this is additional mapping table and additional lookup in the hardware most likely so you haven\u0027t touched upon that angle so can you comment from performance impact if any for your solution Gregg mercy City I believe that if you compare this solution with the reference earlier MPLS in IP then there is no additional impact so basically it will be the same processing in the same number of mappings that you need to maintain yes so again compared to a certain pls an IP and it works in wire speed so again no problem robbing from hobby to comments the first one the pre we are slice oh this one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:47",
    "text": "okay I think these two user regarding this is the compression of the SME 6s are active header so I think it is a two point he\u0027s a very important I think that the first one user requirement so I think here you the proto the case I know that\u0027s the China Mobile you the important operators so I think I use a better that you can have some statistical information that\u0027s just this information you understand this how much for the size of the use of the packet under the distribution and also these are the according to the deployment how many segments use necessary I seen the DCU the may be used more useful for us to understand that this is the requirement so this is the first one the second one I think that is the the cost of the new solution for this one so I think that\u0027s the you better because now the probe holder you Lucas and also is better according to this the forwarding plea and also to identify some other requirements such as the many the plane or the controlling so that\u0027s according to this we can understand that is the advantage and also the possible cost so that\u0027s we can yeah thank you I want to give you brief feedback so I want to give a example network in currently we are developing our SR amperes network for our 50 backhaul the example is the Beijing you know Beijing is a bigger city currently we plan to deploy 35,000 note to support the full city fevzi backhaul that\u0027s huge right so in this huge network we have to manage each pass between the position at the core network of 5g the number from is the 4G network so for 5g that\u0027s similar so 35 thousand nodes in one network is huge the management that can chew is challenged so that\u0027s we have a very detailed calculation to calculate how many seats should be included in the height and our number currently is a 12 now we are developed deploying the MPR size are for this network and we have deployed a more than five thousand nodes tuna and based on this network we have a to support more than 10 seats oils is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:49",
    "text": "very hard for us to operate that so thus its number is related to the network scalability for the biggest city we have a to help more than 10 leva seats that\u0027s challenger for the SR Mystics now so that means it\u0027s very hard for us to use the Asami 6 in this network in this application error because this table the 60 percent utilization of the bandwidth it\u0027s terrible so we have to improve the solution or else we cannot get the largest scalability deployment on that thank you and then the second one yes I currently we just have app you see on the data plan and then maybe future we will have more detailed analysis on the control plan and a manual client thank you okay David Melman from Marvel I\u0027m just curious if you compared it to the existing drafts about the micro SID network programming draft which also can support you know 16 or 32-bit SIDS how would that work to meet your requirements for compatibility GT yes thank you for bringing it and that in addition some other activity is for future work so we\u0027ll do that and again we welcome comments who are welcome collaboration so if somebody wants to work together and in this aspect comparing with the micro seeds or with other suggestions enhance or do this yeah we\u0027re welcome but yes we were planning to do more detailed comparison with the micro seeds okay Charlie from Huawei also we have another solution for like compress it\u0027s a v6 network programming as well so you\u0027ll be good to make some like comparison between this car Solutions thank you yeah thank you I think this figure is the Sun several one I think we can have more detailed analysis on that thank you sorry which was a nine after a computation I think given the size of your Bayesian network if you tried the micropedic solution you would eat it / 32 chuckling so I don\u0027t think it would be a reliable solution the way percent "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:49",
    "text": "wouldn\u0027t be viable in Beijing okay thank you so going back to your question it\u0027s part of the subject beyond as a v6 so stable we first need to really agree on what the goal is or are we can\u0027t pursue at too many requirements compared to the original scope of Springer in we we had recommends at the beginning we caught multiply the number of requirements we heard that there are some use case with lot of seeds and for those whose case we need to reduce the size of the reader but in addition to that we didn\u0027t really understand the real out calls and then we have to discuss the benefits on cost of each solutions not specific to use it\u0027s all the solutions because we don\u0027t know we don\u0027t we should not assume that we are going to go to for solutions to six manner I mean for solution in addition to a 36 so we really need to converge with in spring first well it to everyone to discuss the cost and benefit analysis of each solution free to converge on something so so far it\u0027s within Springer okay thank you just final question from as offers that what we asked for their chairs to the clarify where this work can continue and if it\u0027s to continue in spring group would we need to resubmit the draft the draft with points to the spring group we just need your qualification of wine on owner list thank you we need to discuss its perennial we can discuss any document with any fine lemma so far it\u0027s up to you it\u0027s really want it to be identified with the one working upon the other one but we can discuss it in spring whatever the final next day I believe is Reggie my name is Reggie Thomason from juniper Networks since Ron couldn\u0027t come in person so I would be presenting the slide deck for him maybe okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:50",
    "text": "so digital news from juniper Networks since Ron couldn\u0027t actually be in person out here so I would be presenting this slide for him so we start with the changes since the last IETF there\u0027s a typo it\u0027s one not five so the title has been changed now it\u0027s called SRM six us could actually see from the title early it was SRV 6 plus just one quick comment is you guys haven\u0027t changed name of the document and that\u0027s still causing some confusion yeah the field right yeah we need to change that name and and then we have a binding set which got added onto the overview draft and yeah there\u0027s a new Kota tua Jalil from very soon and these are the individual drafts which are currently on SRM six couples of them are like a work in progress we\u0027re like a development is actually happening however there are like a sum of these traps which we believe are like quite mature specifically because there has been implementations both on software and as well as like on a6 and there has been interoperable implementations so I would just like a go through those which we believe are mature now first one is the service 6 plus which actually gives an overview and then we have a routing header definition that we believe is pretty mature because as I said like a that has been implementation both on software and a second there has been interoperable implementation the other one VPN desktop it\u0027s a very straight forward draft and we believe there\u0027s an implementation and we\u0027ll use that one is also mature so now otherwise from the last IETF we have a new draft which is CRH helper op so the orders are over here itself so if anybody has like gone to the draft and if they have any suggestions or comments they can actually directly reach out to them so in essence mmm it actually defines a new ipv6 destination option that actually carries the mapping from the CRX it to the ipv6 address they do it efficiently so I didn\u0027t go into the details because the draft is like a pretty much clear on that so any doubts you can actually ask so with respect to the development and deployment we have a code which is like a linux-based and we have an acid-based implementation also which is now which is on MX and there\u0027s a DP DK implementation from liquid telecom regarding the deployment Andrew would be talking after me so I didn\u0027t get down to that and with MX based POC there are like other deployments which are which probably would be like a coming on coming quarter and with respect to the drafts which needs to be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:50",
    "text": "returned right there there\u0027s a noise PF extension similar to ISAs which needs to be returned and there is a young model which needs to be defined and from this presentation the ask is actually to for the community to actually review the mature drafts because those has been implemented and you have like a implementation on both a sick as well as like on software probably we could actually get comments at this time so yeah I would like Andrew come on stage here yeah okay yeah Jaron from Cisco so like I said on on the last draft at the beginning there\u0027s there\u0027s there\u0027s we don\u0027t see any justification for this SRM six work beyond with the working groups already chartered to deploy our Charter to produce and is producing and multiple vendors and operators are currently deployed so there\u0027s no there\u0027s no comparison document there\u0027s no justification for why this work is a value to the community and I think without that I don\u0027t I don\u0027t know how this community could I can figure out if there\u0027s why they spend time on this or why they\u0027d work on this so from whatever I understand there were like customers who are like actually interested in SR m6 and that\u0027s the reason why this is actually getting progressed so probably if though this can want to add more to connect Darin I\u0027d like to add a couple of things to that firstly I go back to Montreal where we were asked by the operators to put down the justifications of something needed in addition to s or v6 this was done there were multiple emails that I can point you to on the list from ourselves I believe from entity from others about the justification needed for something additional secondly I point out right that I myself as an operator operating a large network was asked a question about the depth and deployment and whether or not the current technologies could be utilized and I laid out the scenario and I put it back and I was told there\u0027d be a response that exchange was between you and me so to stand here and say that there is no justification considering the work that has gone on on the list where it was asked for it was replied to is so the question is where suggested where\u0027s the where\u0027s the detailed description of how this work how the solution this is trying to solve is not already solved by what exists there\u0027s methods of reducing reducing the size of a a header there\u0027s SR v6 is is already "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:50",
    "text": "has an architecture doc unis is has the control plane to find its it\u0027s deployed so it\u0027s it\u0027s back on the authors of this work to describe why the current work of this working group is not applicable you\u0027ve got massive changes to to what this working group has has been working on and you\u0027re suggesting to to do something very different the onus is on the authors of this draft okay so first thing I think that it needs to be made very clear that the authors of SRM six have stated multiple times on the list that we do not want to impede the work of what is currently going on we believe that there needs to be a choice and let the market decide and we believe that both should progress I also point out that if we look and when we talk about finalizing one before the other there is one architecture document before this working group at the moment it is SRM 6 s rh is sitting in six-man it is not in this working group network programming and CRH and SRM sex perform very very different functions very different functions if you get to the Micra said draft I point out that the CRH draft actually predates that and so the same onus that we have to produce the justification for what homes in CRH sits on the authors of the Micra so draft and is equally absent however considering that the authors of the microsil draft wrote the micro CID draft they themselves have acknowledged considering they are the same authors on the original sov six draft that something has to be done that there is a problem the document itself stands as an acknowledgment to the problem of the overhead and so the same owner supplies there so I\u0027m a little confused here as to what the stance is and if you can if you can explain it to me better considering everything that I\u0027ve just said so sorry martine jumping in the queue just a small precision SNH is not in six money anymore it\u0027s in the FCAT took you okay that that works in exactly the same way I\u0027m trying to understand when we talk about we have to finalize S or v6 what are we talking about here what they\u0027re trying to finalize what there\u0027s discussion from I think Rob you said at some point we you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:50",
    "text": "know we\u0027ll need to define a set of requirements around and and what\u0027s needed as far as they reduced overhead and and what\u0027s needed and why it\u0027s needed I don\u0027t remember the exact words of that email but doesn\u0027t because that confidential this so you have a solution that has a RFC 8080 402 which is the SR architecture document you have a lot of work that\u0027s been done in the working group you have a lot of work that\u0027s been done in the industry you have a lot of deployment it\u0027s going the way it\u0027s going what I\u0027m simply stating is that there is a lot of background work to build that documentation set and this working group and I don\u0027t see the same level of background for this work and I would say to you and I don\u0027t you need to you need to put the work into doing that and and and I would say to you that there is a lot of work that has gone ahead I will point out that when the questions have come from the working group we have attempted to address every question that has come up we there were requests in Montreal put for justifications to the list by the chairs the request went out it was answered on in some detail and I\u0027m quite happy to point out those emails my point here is that I really do believe that there is a lot of work that has gone on into making this what it is today and the authors have said very clearly that if this working group feels that they are technical problems with it technical changes bring them to us and where they have been brought to us we have attempted to engage to address but at this point I\u0027m I\u0027m not quite sure what it is that you want from us and I\u0027m quite happy to have an offline email exchange to understand that better but right now from so yeah yeah can I so this gate ontological Cisco so this proposal is is mapped mapping SRM six mapping right we have our two decade plus old technology for mapping just called MPLS I would like to point out that when we are talking about ipv6 we have already in the working group defined as our MPLS for ipv6 we also define it\u0027s in the RFC queue how to do s our MPLS over IP only network that is s our MPLS over IP all of these are there right when this proposal was brought out there was a discussion in the mailing list and you are asked the authors were asked to differentiate against this and what is it that cannot be solved or address with this technology that you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:51",
    "text": "that is warrants this new proposal right I think it\u0027s a bit of odd that this gets compared to SR v6 but you are silent and ignoring the functional benefits of why this cannot be achieved with what we have done previously with SR MPLS so that that would be the question I think we need some text or some information from the authors to cover that aspect it\u0027s not just this is not SR v6i I think that as as I\u0027ve stated on the mailing list right there is a demand out there in the market to move away from MPLS labels at the top of the packet and we\u0027ve seen it I was told very bluntly by a particular vendor that there would be no further control plane development done in v6 as regards MPLS right now our take on this is is that in the current SR v6 as it stands and I have as I\u0027ve said no wish none of our authors wish to block the deployment of SR v6 or the development of it we simply argue that there is a need for the ability for a far deeper sin stack and they\u0027re all requirements for it if you look at the prepared at the previous presentation they were talking about a said a tensed depth that is a requirement I myself have a need for tensor debt if you look at the overhead imposed by s or s or v6 in the absence of the white person trust so I suggest if I could kind of paraphrase you sorry is what you are saying is that with SR MPLS this solution for ipv6 only network is solve our address by whatever work has come out of spring working group and MPLS right but what you are what we are looking for so that\u0027s the case right did I understand it correctly so which is our MPLS the deployments are the problems that you want to do with ipv6 networks have been addressed I would say that in Port I would need to I would need to answer that more fully and just to say that was what I was asking about so this is addressed or solved with SR MPLS right for ipv6 networks with ipv6 control planes with whatever work we have done I think I mean I find it a bit odd because we are introducing a mapping technology and mapping is very similar to MPLS and we have done all of that work so Jukka is not introduced as far MS to map yes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:51",
    "text": "mapping technologies mapping technology is a part of the internet there were many of them yes so then there were alternatives in protocols operators right many operators want a choice they want to be able to say got this option got this option right and sure I and and what I am saying and again I repeat right there is no desire to block the continued development in S or v6 we merely believe that there is an alternative there was a stated requirement for what the alternative offers on the list as requested often Montreal and as such we believe that both should be able to proceed so can we cut this question now I think that way we\u0027re looping so run had a remote comment and then we\u0027ll cut the line as well please please please don\u0027t repeat the same point again on the game you can refer to as a scone but it\u0027s not that new cards are sensing [Music] there are those questions what are the differences between us or entities at the end of the or what\u0027s the motivation for us our index at the end of the SRM six documents there is a section that calls out the major differences see our excise decoupling of network programming with traffic engineering there were key words we can beef up that section a little bit in the next revision and you know call them out as you know the real motivation for SRM specs Oh one of the major motivations that you\u0027ll see in this next version is that as SRM sex does many things traffic engineering fast reroute VPNs perfect no service instructions and it decouples them so that if a network operator wants to use one the owner or some combination that\u0027s fine also it does a good job on all of them it can do traffic engineering without requiring the network operator anomalies network in any particular way it can do traffic engineering using adjacency since as deep as it needs to go so in any of it your your comment is well-taken you\u0027ll see an update in the next revision of that section that pulls out differences will become more on motivation why do we need this in addition to us ah well what we do need as an addition to what we\u0027re calling as far respect okay Ron this is Darrin again really quickly since you mentioned me the content in section 9 is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:53",
    "text": "all is all resolved with SR v6 in its current form and yeah the the now I think couple of XR v6 and with reducing [Music] arguments arguments are made in the document that\u0027s why you need to do the work of building that separate document that defines you so that can actually be discussed hurting it from these are the differences so these are why we need these you know I think that\u0027s what you\u0027re asking for though so I think Ron and Andrew the work here is started a survey six six years ago there\u0027s an architecture document data plainer than is G okay there is a document this is the same down now no it\u0027s a fuck you are finding a new control plane new data plane and deviating from architecture this is why you need to work on this because there is there\u0027s a whole list of documents that Andrew just showed on the list it\u0027s all control in document in tied in you to control claim entirely new data plane and in very different architecture this is why you need to justify why the 60s this points we make another thank you very much Jim in the back line please yeah Jim from future well I was actually going to reiterate that point that might my concern here is that we\u0027re gonna we\u0027re being asked to develop two completely incompatible solutions in a working group that\u0027s not supported by the current charter and if you look at that just the second paragraph of the Charter is specifically says that we should avoid working on incompatible data playing solutions for existing deployments or words to that effect and what we\u0027re being asked to do here is work on another data plane that is completely incompatible with SR v6 and that\u0027s the Dean I understand that there are two data planes at play here MPLS and ipv6 I don\u0027t think anybody\u0027s departing a new data plane yes I\u0027d love to this alright when we are talking about data plane okay I need to make a point here if we talk about data plane compatibility I published on the list a test that we did with the compressed routing header where I routed on and steered compressed routing header over my network out across the general internet across two continents into another network and took up the steering on the other side that was over a v6 data plane the traffic steered on my network its steered on the remote "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:54",
    "text": "network across multiple ASNs with no knowledge of the intermediate area networks so the argument that this is a completely incompatible data plane if this was a completely incompatible data plane a packet would not have moved from Africa all the way through Europe to the Netherlands all the way through another network with full steering no but to be fair Andrew that could be you could achieve that with SR v6 as well quite easily actually let me just finish and there are solution documents out there to suggest how you can compress the SR agents that\u0027s a discussion we need to have all I\u0027m saying is that the process in IETF is that when we build working groups we have charters they\u0027re there for a reason and if we\u0027re just gonna ignore what the Charter says without going through the process then what we have is anarchy and I that\u0027s my concern I do not want to be working on two completely incompatible solutions that\u0027s that\u0027s a if and if we do we need working group consensus to do such a thing well clearly we need working group consensus however I want to point out what the two data points are their MPLS and ipv6 and in order to really be compliant with that that charter we need to comply both with the spirit and the letter of RFC 8200 the ipv6 standard whenever we stretch that and scratch that then we we risk stepping out of charter you know I think we do need to stay in charter that means do it on TV six in a plane but I think it\u0027s a bit unfair to say SOR v6 is what we say it is today even though we\u0027re not quite finished yet um well let\u0027s let it evolve and also let\u0027s be very meticulous at our compliance with 8200 okay John John Scudder so I thought we were done with with process attacks in this group you know at least five years ago and it\u0027s personally disappointing to me to see it still going on actually that\u0027s almost the only thing I want to say I\u0027ll just say one further thing which is that you know what I see now is what I saw a bunch of years ago which is that there are some people who are trying to solve what they say is a a demonstrated problem that they see from the marketplace there they\u0027re feeling customer pull and they have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:54",
    "text": "solution they\u0027re working on they would like to work on it in the light of day toward that end they\u0027ve put a lot of work into publishing a set of documents and soliciting input on them the work is I presume and I\u0027m actually I should say that although my my badge is Juniper Networks I do not work on this project but you know work isn\u0027t going to go away because the IETF says la la la I can\u0027t hear you that\u0027s it being from Hawaii I have two comments the first one is the requirements so the first I I think we must a distinguish that would have the requirement the first requirement I used to reduce the size of the SRB succeed another requirement is a totally new SR the ipv6 the based the SR solution so I I\u0027m from my pond we cannot mix the two requirement together you I I think I use a lot a reasonable way to say that we want to reduce to the side but these are our requirement but I wanted but that based on this requirement I make a totally new ipv6 to face the solution as our solution I think this is not a reasonable way so I also you can say that they are already the three possible solution it can be compatible with the SRH it can also reduce to the side of the SRB succeed so I think this is the first point the second point I think this is a process usual I think this is also mentioned that that\u0027s in the 80s mill less usually focus on this the SRS standardization these are first point okay the second one I think if we you said that is we have the requirement Oh may I said that you also comply with the process you\u0027ve had this is the this is the proper there\u0027s a problem statement and the requirement so this one that\u0027s a user Charter so after this you care to the graphical sensors you singer that\u0027s the people supported the EU the totally new requirement okay so that\u0027s it maybe you can\u0027t go on ours I think we need an order to repeat this walk okay so Pablo from Cisco this draft is not describing segment outing as defined in RFC 84 - you are describing a method for doing source routing by means of his teaching IP tunnels this is not a RFC a divorce or two so my questions to the authors is why do you call it segment routing I\u0027m actually trying to I\u0027m actually trying to process in my head what you mean by that considering considering if I look right let\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:56",
    "text": "compare for a second in SR v6 you are using ipv6 addresses as SIDS and then you are using those to effectively rewrite a DA I\u0027m not discussing about this Harvey six I\u0027m trying to discuss about your proposal and if I wrote the introduction of draft Bonica sorry six plus you are defining something that is called segment node ingress and segment node egress then you are saying that the segment must have a state both on the ingress and egress and to me that looks more like a tunnel than rather than RFC 84 - I think in reality if we rename this something that doesn\u0027t say segment routing it doesn\u0027t change the problem space that we have the problem space is there are multiple solutions for a smaller size it if it\u0027s segment routing or not the potential problem gets even worse because this moves to our ttg and things just happen outside of any kind of coordinated view so I I appreciate the point but I kind of feel like it\u0027s not necessarily moving it okay and from Qi University in the running sir net China educational research Network and I believe we have the largest ipv6 only network and actually we have kids as our v6 test with Huawei and it\u0027s interesting we also noticed that shouters seed has opposite advantages for example handle smaller MTU and actually because in some cases we run contributing directly control the seed actually in that case we do not really need 128 so actually we both we support both proposals in the SRV 6 because it\u0027s quite a merger so it\u0027s good and we are using and we should open our eyes to see the new possibility squeegees these are FC and probably we can try to get it compatible in the future for the features however one say I like to emphasize if we want to do compress seed in the current version then actually that changed the definition of the segment list which is 128 it is we should avoid that thank you come on come on Cisco Systems in your earlier slide you shown one CRH and three option tea always and also proof of concept with ASIC based implementation my question is I\u0027m interested know that how many are on ASIC based implementation how many of those options at the line rate you can process including CRH and three other options that you have listed I\u0027m talking about your earlier proof of concept on asset based implementation and your list of options there are three options the latest being CH helper option and you have three option T alvie\u0027s and oneness your H address all these options will be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:45:57",
    "text": "/c RH how many you can process on a sequence imputation online rate okay so so that\u0027s the traffic engineering part and we have a VPN level part which is the end or DT for I know that can be actually processed on a line rate we can talk further offline things and the line was actually kept behind Cameron so just hold on to the with holistic to the the way that it works for fairness please please made their comment on the mailing list Johnny from where we are just out here because I\u0027m like overhead as well so it\u0027s not about reducing the seeds only so think about the costs overhead of the destiny I also had it and then finally chase and from our side we do feel like we would like to ask for a consideration of adoption of the SRM 6 over view draft so we are back to the same slides that we did at the beginning it has its be honest a v6 we add the requirement who proposed a new solution with a shorter error we need to make sure we really understand the the problem that we need to serve and because we are airing different things from different persons including from different orders as a document and then we will work on a solution we should not assume we are going to push for additional draft or traditional solution for six mana so to make it short if the goal is to make a shorter adder we need to ask to all the proposals if you just need a shorter either any solution could work or do you really want your solution only or then why why so we need to mess on the Y first so that when we come back to the real reason it should be easier to prune solution or to accept that we are [Music] callable for and just to make a point follow pointers if we do a call for adoption we\u0027re only going to get the same comments that we\u0027ve had in the room and the additional ones on that phases so I think we should really the focus before we kick off for an adoption for anything should be just start to address some of the concerns raised in the working group I\u0027m finally to your question you see the is not part of a v6 that you need to finish before come on everyone I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:01",
    "text": "Charlie from Hawaii my topic today is about as a v6 power segment so in history who have proposed to draft about as amperes part segment and it has been adopted by the spring working group as you see that the reason is in there some peers we cannot identify the package came from which pause because there are no label or only few label left when the packet reached the egress note so so in either as amperes part segment right so to support use case like like like p.m. performance measurements and something like this we need a post identification and in SI v6 we think the segment list is not the like up operate ID or the to identify the past because you know it is flexible lens like fuse and even in the reduce mode the information of the series cannot identify the past so we need an ID to identify the the sf-86 password so we propose as a v6 power segment which is fixed lens and identification which is a 128-bit ID and so the main update of this document is we add some tests to clarify the requirements of a v6 post segment and we move the encapsulation related test to another document in a six-man working group and we update the references and we make some like editorial a modification so a question and comments our very own right so this is the s a v6 part segment encapsulation in as a v6 and I won\u0027t go into the details of this solution because we\u0027re talking about the architecture document so if I interested in this document welcome to discuss with me so we mainly propose to format up as a v6 segment the first one is a global ID format which which is like it can be a it can be a 128-bit group ID and the second one it follows the format of a v6 segment which has the located and function ID something like this so this is a former the processing of the as a v6 per segment I won\u0027t go into the details what I want to mention is the as a v6 power segment can be distributed by bgp or PCP this app and you have to documents have been adopted by idea working group and piece piece a PC working group so it can be very easy to export as a v6 by some minor changes right so the next time the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:03",
    "text": "next step is we request to working group review and if possible we request to working group adoption of this architectural document code draft Lee spring as a v6 part segment and cause it the test its metro right now and requirements clear and welcome to discuss which the format of an encoding or encapsulation of a v6 pass document and with me and any question very short yeah it\u0027s just the one comment I think this solution is really important for the network operation especially for the large network thank you thank you thank you so that\u0027s it so we are very late on the agenda we just have one slot remaining and we propose to together start to Rio to give a feedback on a working group document others who is a is from Tokyo so it\u0027s not likely to come back to another meeting so real thank you and we\u0027re sorry to just use the Twitter stress so real you have your five minutes but it\u0027s five minutes so maybe certain slides will be too much from University of Tokyo and I\u0027m also a member all the interrupts talk it\u0027s shown it so this draft would like to share the Reston\u0027s run from the scariest our basic self changing deployment at the interrupt culture so the only interpretive still continues the shown it which is the one of the largest demonstration network at the interrupt Tokyo interrupts exhibition so we conducted many demonstrations at the interpreter shown it and we used s our basics of changing based on this our service programming draft in the indicia and we provided the network connectivity to the order booth exhibit abuses and vistas at the interrupt Tokyo using the SR basics exchange so this is the overview but I will skip this turret this right because not so interesting and so they this risk in case the there s our basics our device is contributed to the show net for this experiment from Cisco and for a required Creek and NTT communications vio went back and so on so pretty the draft about the detail of the product and they are the sub the product is our basic sub chaining as the Assad physics unaware services that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:03",
    "text": "means that they are deployed under the end am proxy or attacking proxy the tagging proxy is proposed at the show net and the draft is also published and so let me introduce or share the Reston\u0027s around from this experiment so the first so we we were yeah we were worried about that such a hot meter boxes keep passes past the ipv6 packet with a sorry age under the Ada and AM proxies but there was no worried and all devices contributed to the show net this year transparent transparent we delivered all the ipv6 packet with a storage under the end a.m. proxies implementations from some vendors repeaters and so next so we directory we tried to deployed a skeptic Porter under the a proxy for Wi-Fi users but it couldn\u0027t be done because as mentioned in the draft is our service permit programming the services they originate pocket from the service each F cannot be deployed on that and the in proxy because the demonstrating requires a sorry they must create a sorry to is the pocket but such packets from the subsist don\u0027t have less much credit SRH so we is the body and to you of the masquerading Brooke she in the draft so next is the harbor service ripeness detection and the condition of conditional advertisement of service segment that means so to achieve the redundancy of the services under the SAR basics basis I was training we needed to detect the down of the services but there\u0027s no there were no functionality so that because the current implementations focused on the dead brain functionality is there is no such a control mechanisms so such a mechanism to detect the ripeness of the services from the proxies are required to practical practical deployment for example integrating the basic prediction avoiding detection into the advertising cygnets and next he is the hope limited agreement on the SR basics proxies vehicle we notice that there are a variance of the decremented behavior of hope limits on the SRB is our basic sprocket unemployment a shindig meant the whole perimeter on the masquerading pot and and then decrement the hop limit on the demonstrating pot but another implementation doesn\u0027t decrement ahora meet on the most masquerading pot so but whom is the correct behavior as mentioned in the MA under under may marry increased from transfer so next the control plane capabilities we we really need control plane capabilities at the at that moment with the devices do not have the control plane implementations because therefore "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:04",
    "text": "they were focusing on the the dead brain so we configured order service components by our steps by our hands it was possible but it was actually very very hot so we strongly hope the functionalities in the control brain draft would be implemented in the product and this is our last final right so much condition for prying guess our basics functions so basically current implementations apprised our basics functions as a result of longest prefix much as on the leading theories so but in the subs chaining tranche to behaviors needed to be associated with the default route because the packets from users will have arbitrary destination so we need 0.02 0 0 or 0 crong crong 0 structure but so and we need to apply the different approaches for different uses so we see are a pearl service chains but so the using the biographies are very practical candidate but visitors there is another candidate for example using the BGP respect for so if the BGP prospect will apply these are basic functions as unction of BGP prospect we can use only one routing table to apply the difference is our Porsches for different users by adabot just advertising the BGP hero spirits from Rio to reflectors so this is just a suggestion so this is our of this right and thank you and we hope to we hope the recent round from the interpreter will help this community thanks thank you for the feedback on in general you\u0027re very welcome to contribute to the mailing list and especially if you find the interrupt issue you usually assume that\u0027s a specification it\u0027s not clear enough so you\u0027re welcome to send commands on cetera if that\u0027s not clear with on issues so please please please contribute yeah thank you Thanks so we\u0027re finished for today we have another meeting in uh in Thursday I believe which is four also so please discuss on so many of these things in the meantime thank you you "
  }
]