[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:14",
    "text": "Hello. Welcome to the first session of Debtnet here in Prague. So it's nice being back. And, appreciate everyone for being here in person and on line. I'm Lou Berger. This is Janash Marcus. Also online, we have Eve Schuler, who has come over to us, as who was raw chairs now working group secretary help continue on that, transition. It's the 1st day. So please take a a look at, the note well. It covers, our processes and rules for closure, highlights are everything you say here should, you should know that everything that's said here becomes part of our record, It is recorded. We have video. We have audio. And that It remains as a contribution to the IETF, and we have rules We have DCPs. If you're not familiar, Please go take a look at the, the link at the bottom of the page. Next Part of our, guidelines, the rules that we operate under, is we have a a a code of conduct. Basically treat everyone with respect, interact with each other professionally, stay away from anything that is, personal And as long as you treat everyone with respect, I think we'll be they'll be good. Generally, the group is good with that, but, you know, we all have lapses. We're all people it's important to keep this in mind when interacting even when we're having a passionate technical debate."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:06",
    "text": "You faded here. So you're familiar with, for those of you online, you're familiar with Mead echo, for those of you who are in your in the room, Please make sure to scan in. We may have, polls, and it's really important to have the tool available for that. More importantly, we're running a shared queue between those who are online. And those in the room. So if you wanna speak at the mic, Please use the tool to enter the queue. Next. Blue sheets. We don't pass around anymore. That's now automatic through the tool. So that's another reason why it's important to show that you're here that is sometimes useful personally, but it's also useful in helping to schedule the room size. We are using a collaborative note taking tool please join us there We have several people who have already said they'll take notes. But it always is helpful for others. This is particularly important if you make a comment at the mic because then you can go and make sure your comment is at a is appropriately captured. So please join us there and and help take the notes. The agenda is, has not changed since it was announced, at theendoflastweek. And the only thing that we've done is we've added in right version numbers. Next We have 2 sessions. Today's session is gonna be focused on working group status, And then moving into are top the raw topics. So this is work that's come over from the raw working group. And it's debt net over wireless. And detonet interacting with wireless domains. And that's gonna be the primary part of the, the bulk of this session."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "We also have a few minutes, the last part where David Black is going to give a report out on the open meetings that have been taking place related to our enhanced data playing. And the next session is going to have quite a number of descriptions of proposals for queuing to support the enhanced data plane as well as some other related topics. And, that's on Wednesday. For some reason, I was thinking it's on Tuesday, but it's not on Wednesday. So please join us there as well. Next We do ask that authors when they present they if you've presented before, please focus on, changes and, what it's gonna take to complete the document That's for working group documents. And for new drafts, really wanna summarize what is the the delta to our existing or prior work and why the working group should be interested in a in a we also are gonna do something a little different today. This was inspired by a comment made, by one of the LSR chairs. This morning about leaving time. So we're gonna run a clock for everybody. And particularly the non working group documents we're gonna subtract 2 minutes. And so that we ensure that there's time available for discussion. Next, Okay. So, this doc this, summarizes where we are in the document public patient process, we have a few documents or that are with the, AD And I'd like to I don't know if Roman is in the room, but, he's helping us out. No. My Did Roman make the comments on these Yes. He did. I wasn't Yeah. My don't think he we expect him in the room."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:04",
    "text": "Oh, okay. But he did make comments. And, for the authors of those 3 working group documents please make sure to respond to his comments as well as the comments of the other area reviewers. The formatting on this is really confusing. It was not this way in the PowerPoint. I guess we should look at a piece of PDF, there are, some revisions that are needed. So that means we're with the offers and So that's, definitely authors take note. Please review the comments and make sure all comments are addressed. Greg? Okay. Greg went at wine, and now he's out of line. Okay? Yeah. Don't think there's anything else that's worth talking about here? Next On the agenda, we have, three topics, 3, one of them is the free charter topics, excuse me, including, scaling and raw architecture, raw architecture is gonna come shortly and I'm hoping Pascal is online because I do not see him on In the room, not on the agenda. Our control opinion for any work and also the raw framework. Pascal's gonna talk about the raw framework in his slides, for the controller frame, plane, framework. Do we have any of the authors in the room I don't believe we've seen an update on the list. Generally, we ask for an update. So I would say that that's a good indication of if you would like to tribute. To a working group document. Please take a look at this document. And send a mail to the authors and to the list saying you're willing to contribute on We are contribution driven. If, working group document does not have contribution from the authors You're welcome to join in. Actually, that's true for any document, particularly true for things like this that seem to, lost attention."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "This is good work. We think it's important. But we need to we need people to help us out on text. We had no incoming are outgoing liaisons? We're now gonna talk a little bit about our charter. At the last I ETF, We talked about the impact to the charter. For, because of the raw working group, rolling back in to debt net. So we have a couple of slides on this, and we have one person in queue. Carlos Bernardo's usage team. One comment from, about the to you slide on the documents There is also the although expired, the raw industrial requirements. We I mean, in the past meeting, we discuss whether, for example, I I could join in the team to help. We have been having some offline discussions that they will be able to submit a new version this week. So that will be yet another document that we need to take care. It's not in the agenda because we are just resuming, but, our plan was to submit a new version with minor changes with the new name that network and then ask for comments on the mailing list. That that's great. My memory is that was a raw working group document. Correct? So the yes. So the agreement we had is is that anything that was a raw work group document doesn't have to go through adoption. It just comes right in. So, submit accept it and, move forward with it. So thank you. That's great. Okay. So the, milestone update. First of all, is being driven by RAD. John is in the room. And, We appreciate the work there. There was actually quite a number of minor editorial fixes in it. I'm not gonna go over those. They really are purely editorial. There were 2 differences, and I believe we actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "they're pretty much the same as what we talked about at the last meeting. In the first paragraph, basically acknowledge the work that's going on with RAW explicitly. So wireless was always part of the debt net Charter. It was in our original use cases, but it didn't receive a lot of attention. So what really doesn't take much in the early part to acknowledge that we're doing wireless, but we wanted to make it explicit. The other change was we had, tourless, what I saw earlier, I think he's here. Suggested that we add reordering since that's something we're doing. And it's something we're doing. So that I think that's fairly non controversial. Keeping along the the line of of making the wireless support, explicit. We've also added this is a substantive change, a new paragraph, that talks about, the wireless related work. And this paragraph is largely lifted from the raw charter. So again, should not be controversial, but it's good to acknowledge the change. Next. Another way, if anyone has questions, feel free to come We had not looked at our milestones in a while. So part of the charter update was to go look at the milestones and say, what what are the right dates to match the work that we're doing currently, or we see coming down the pike? I'm not gonna go through all the dates. But you're welcome to take a look here. Take a moment. See if your document that your author or contributor on is listed and what the target dates are. If you have any comments, love to hear them now. Or on the list. Moving forward. Next next next next And now we're gonna go into sort of our standard wrap up slides for the chairs, we do have an IPR process that we follow. This is,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "This is widely followed in a number of working groups, particularly in the routing area, we, always poll at the time of adoption. And again, at, completion, and this is really going back to that note. Well, where part of our process is is disclosure of known IPR if you're contributing to work. If you So this is really very important. We've had late at IPR in other working groups at other times, and that really hinders the process. Okay. Text. We do like to be friendly to those who are not able travel to the meetings, We also want to have progress faster than our that that sort of The tempo of our meetings. So please use the list continue having virtual meetings, we can do informal as well as formal using meet echo, we I think Webex is still not working. Right? Right? So maybe Webex will come back someday, but, Not yet. But we can use the working group resources, to support these making progress faster than just the physical meetings. So please use those. Please talk out less. Now, I see David Black in queue. David? Wanted to, reinforce supported by informal working meetings right now, we have none scheduled and whether to schedule future ones is a topic to be discussed, when we get around to me at the end of this I'm making a note to meet echo in case anyone Okay. listening that the remote audio is not great in the room."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "I don't know if actually, Eve, were you able to hear, David, thoroughly. I was able to hear David, and it was okay, but it just as you pointed out to me, it was a little bit overdriven, but, I could understand what he said, and it was about, pointing out future in urum, meetings. Okay. Unfortunately, my ears are not great at muffled Sounds, and I'm not hearing the remote speakers very well. Hopefully, me, Ducker will help us out there. Is this any better? I've repositioned the mic. I think we should just try to press Okay. Carry on. Sorry. And, we have Pascal now. And, Pascal, you have 20 minutes. Are you driving the slides, or do you want to pass me to both. We'll pass it to you. Okay. I see it. Thank you, Luke. So, yes, I mean, this is work that, was transferred from the road working group back into that net as we merged of span Ian, what about the term, roll back into that net. One of the major things which happen at the time was, some good amount of terminology work. We, we, we have some terminology coming from the well as well. We have some terminology coming from I would say globally the MPLS world, and, and they deferred. And, and so went through this exercise of trying to convert. There was also some trouble with, east west, north south. Which is a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "very much overloaded. So we wanted to, to get rid of that and basically give the intention of going forward between the source and destination of across meaning when you have multiple parallel lanes, then and you switch lanes. It's just like a car work or the highway. Express this, using the the tone crossing. So the this this big discussion about the double track ended up with this proposal of using recovery graph. And, I've seen a male by Lou this morning actually about recovery graph versus, I guess, recovery path again. And so my memory of this is we came up with graph because of the fact that the CPF, the Sunrise So the controller, if there is one, will feed the point of local repair which used to be the PSC with possibly a graph. Are supposed to bath. And and the subset of that graph being instantiated at some point of time to become the re the recovery path that's going to be used. So we wanted to make the distinction in between, like, the set of 4 The vertices that constitutes the graph versus a particle of instance subset of that. Which is used as the recovery path. At a single point of time. So I don't know if that's convincing, but at least I I answered that to you, Lou, on the mailing list. And we can continue that discussion. But, basically, my memory of this side meeting that we had was that recovery graph was the term. That's what I wrote down at the end of that meeting."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "So these are the the big changes. The for the raw people, certainly the going from PSC to PLR is a big change because we've used PSC so much. And then there was this this term, which we, we saw a lot in, in 6 stage, for instance, about, serial or simple tracks, remaining a sequential says of nodes from a to b, meaning that a recovery path would have at least a certain amount of parallel delays. To ensure evidence between a and b. So this top line came after the London meeting with the, in the discussions that we, we committed to have We've done fidget. For for the terminology thing, And and this really expresses a subset of of the path which is one sequence sequence of pops, basically. So this, sorry, Vista was was very useful in the ripple domains And so we we since we needed a term and wanted a converts term now between what we're doing and what we're doing here. Lane appeared to be the 12. 3. Then there was this recommendation by Greg, I guess, about using upper operational plane, which is operational is subset of the control plane, which deals with operation as opposed to management, so so we went for that. I'm still open, but I took, you know, breaks, it's 30s on, on that terms, so I used it. Then again, it's new, so it's can still be discussed. And we insist now that we are using a lot of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "terminology from MPLS is, and we give those new references. Knowing that in the wireless domain, I'm not aware of anything in So we are converging the terminologies, the meaning, but we are not converting the technology as far as I know there is, we can use those terms without necessarily implying that we are using labels. So I I pick those 2 sentences which are big changes or all. Important additions to the architecture just to make sure that people are aware that those news, those sentences are all, in in the document now. So the first one reuses this term operational and says that the PLR and and what we call the OEM supervisor, the thing that they just, the result of of the OAM operation Well, they are, they are in the operational plan. Basically, that's what we, we, we want took to document here because we are already doing this architecture about to position things give names to to to squares basically into joints And so now those 2 elements would belong to the operational plane. 2. And also we insist that we are all areas free and and, operation And We interact with lower layers. Just like that net, interacts with lower low layers. And so we give examples of and and VFD. This these deals also with the parallel discussion, that yannna. She you've just reopened this morning in this email. So I thought maybe we will discuss that. Is a lay of violation. We've My reading is that file is controlled in the definite layers."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "But sometimes operated in the lower some Like, if you want to trigger she want to tell the 2 that it has abundant time to do with 3 tribes. Or it can do only abundant number of retries. Or I need to do the retries of various, a series of links supposed to doing all the retries on the same link. All those controls, can only be requests from the from our layers, but they are instantiated, they operated at the lower layers. Now it's not the only thing which which is like that. I mean, if you look shapers, for instance, now we have brought in some shapers. At layer 3 in that net, but does it mean that there are no shapers in layer 2? And that can be and below. And I guess there would be some interactions for APIs or whatever for, last week, say, hey. I'm doing my shippers. All you have to do to do the shaping for it. Because I expect you won't try have shapers at both layers on the same box. It may interact in a very easy fashion. So same thing here. I mean, the the we are in a s 3. We are doing requests to the lower layers, and we expect the lower layers to do something Otherwise, it won't operate as expected, but I don't see the survey of violation Yeah. No. She are still using that term. We are just requesting stuff. So so the overall operation, yes, cross layer, the the overall thing to operate as to have components at different layers. But each layer has its responsibility, some amend clear with you know, what's your color and your violation here. Do you want comments now or later. I mean, since it's the discussion, right? I mean, yes, please. Yep. We do have some time so I think that if you Please, close very please talk very close to the mic. For some reasons, very hard"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "to hear you. I had to push all the volumes to the maximum. Just to hear you during your initial speech. Okay. Hopefully, you can hear me now. All very well. I think if you adopt the changes that Janos talked about We're moving some of those functions down to the forwarding layer, you remove the layer violation. At least that that's my read as a as a contributor I don't know if Yanna agrees because we haven't discussed that part But I think that could would help with the layer violation. They are already discussed as being lower. I mean, we have to to see which function exactly, but yes, that's already done that way. The picture was the the the tenders provided makes things very clear, and I really love that picture and agree with it and but I don't see that the current text still has this layer violation that was there a year ago or something, and things have changed. And so if there's still something left, That's what I'm after So I'm not sure if I have managed to be clear, but what I wanted to point out that there are good intention in the document, good text, and we discussed it, a lot. And, we agree on many points, like like requests, And the indications going through an API that's proper layering that's not a layer violation. But parallel as such, the combination of ARC and and, pre auth is a layer violation. That's not not putting the 2 together, they are residing they reside in a completely different layers. That's the point I did try to make. So proper requests and the indications and so on going to an API that's abs absolutely appropriate. And moving the PLR to the forwarding layer makes it like easier or So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "That was okay. So I think I see what you're saying. It's because I believe that in the document we call a certain achieving a certain set of functions And to achieve those functions, we need cooperation between layers. And that's that's the big picture we call Paris also Yes. If you have your layers, you could draw a square that goes vertical across the layers and that achieves spiral. But it needs that combination of effort. A different layer using requests to to get the power you are, actuated. But if you think about it, sending it back it out, also is also a a virtual square across the layers. While you see the the packet being encapsulated and going down the layers. And that's packet forwarding. So probably always like packet for Robbie. It's something that goes across the layers to add achieve something global. It's, it's part of itself is not, is not a function in one layer. It is something which is being achieved by the cooperation of multiple layers. Then some part of the text may be needs refinement because the definition, the text don't remember the section number by heart of Parell says It's the superset of heart and pray off and creating such a superset itself in my view is the layer violation. Having a I could not come up with a good name yet. But, the overall operation, like, as I said, the requests and so on indications going up and down. To an API. That's proper. We have to we may define a good, a stand alone name. Let's put together offline. On them, cleaning up the text. I think. Yeah. Because it's like packet forwarding. It's not intended to be one layer of thing. Okay. Next slide, I guess."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "Don't have many, slides low. How much time do I have left? You have 6 minutes, 6 a half minutes. See Peron in the queue, but I don't see you on the tool. Maybe it's missing. Out Okay. Well, it's not on my Fine. Pascal, I have a verification question on your previous slide on terminology. So you replaced the name from dead net controller plane to operational. Me. I haven't followed raw architecture, so I don't know. Why would you do that? And More important question is since now, we have a common charter for both does it impact the terminology for the Detnick documents also. Or should we leave them as is? Yeah. That I don't think the term operational plane was expressed like that in the debt net architecture. I think it comes from the OEM world. So it's but but the controller plane kind of includes operation and management. That's that's pretty much in my view what you find in controller play. So it's it's when you refine the control of plane and you look at what's management and what's operation that you find that what we do enroll lives in the operational sub set of the controller plane. So it's not like we're removing controller plane. So it's not like we're removing controller plane. The detonate control of plane is defined in the definite architecture. It's there to stay. It's just that If you look at it with a magnifying glass, You will see insight management and operation. And as you and, and, If we wanted our architecture on that case, I guess that's what Greg wanted here. To be more crest. Yes. We are in the control of plane. I mean, that's still true. But most specifically, we are in the operational piece of the controller play."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "Do I make sense? Okay. We'll discuss it on the mailing list. I I'm still not clear about a few things. Okay. And and then again, it's very new. As as you point out, it's not casting stone, right? It's just I I I agreed with Greg was clear this way. Now if for some reason we find that it's not a good idea. I'll just roll back. Okay. Mhmm. Yeah. You have 4 minutes to get through. Yeah. Yeah. And two slides. So, I I feel good about it. So so we try to to give this is picture about what is in, Oh, and it says management supplier, which really should say now, operational surveyor, by the way, So there's still a bug on that picture. But we we have a piece which comes from row, which is the, the upper here of this picture Then we've got the the that net service, which was there before which we enhance by some actuating function that serve bio And and then At the lower layer, we we, use things which that net defines fooling like, like, how how that nets uses OEM So that's that's what wanted to position. We really wanted to that we have this upper tier that was not really observed or discussed before role. But now belongs to that net and extends that net. And then they have to to fix that typo. It's not management. It's separation. And then 2 more sentences, which I thought we're we're we're discussing with the group so this concept of recovery graph which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "again, it's not necessarily a path, but more a set of vert is a big bag of vertices, which could be structured of as a set of, recovery path or could be structured just as a big graph? And it's a layer of three graphs. So it's completely agnostic to to wire or wireless. So very clearly, we applied to wire Some of those hops in the graph could be wired as well. And the second thing, which is where we with fraud, we we kind of words. Beyond that not somehow or beyond is a big world's love probably not what I mean, but In that net, you expect every hop to be debt net compliant. Otherwise, you cannot provide debt net guarantees. Here in row at some points because of the fact that's the wireless hubs could be a lot more the first stop, the access link being wireless could be a lot more messy than the rest of the way. We can also You know, kind of the the the losses or the latency, which is due to the rest of the and and compute as if all the law is and all the latency variation that we see were coming from the access link. In which case, I'm thinking about Wi Fi MLU, for instance, as an instance of of what that means here. If you have Wi Fi MLL, you have, all the Wi Fi crimes that you're looking at and the rest of the way is a few wire links which might be very reliable versus those wireless links. And so we we would possibly control and measure only the wireless hubs. The whole network and kind of ignore the rest. Which is not what what the net does, basically. So that's that's what we have we mean by this loose recovery graph."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "It might be that between two hubs in the recovery graph, you have a full network. That we cannot observe. We can only measure at layer 3 from ingress to egress, and send probes and see, you know, from from a distance what what happens in in that lose thought. But but really, We cannot go to the lower later on, and ask questions or force anything. It's just like, a a cloud So so this, this piece is important for Rowan. It's it's not doesn't show in that that risk once. So so this concept of a black network, an opaque network, where that's where you can just measure from the outside and expects some degree of reliability to and then include that in your, PRF computation. As if it was one wireless hot furnaces. Because I wanted to insist on that. And with this, pretty much done with this presentation, as as you said, Roe, as you said, at the very, beginning of of the meeting, you know, yes, I have some words on the framework. The framework has been stalled for a while because the framework for road, was intended to cover the realization of the architecture. So sometimes people call things architecture, call things framework, We made this agreement that wrote that the architecture is kind of before the fact Right. Here is the structure of what we wanna build on paper. Before the fact So it's the intention. And the framework would be more like At the end of the path, there is what we did and how we did it. So how we kind of implement the architecture, if you like? So so the architecture cannot point at at the existing RFCs because they don't necessarily"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "exist. They are they will be done as as the work that led for this architecture. But then the framework in the end can can take everything together and say, here is how the story works. 4 row. So the framework is is already there, but it's just that it's beginning and intention is to keep updating it still we're happy that we've done the job. So for me now, we are since the architecture is more like the Declaration of tension, And after I, I cover, the, the, changes that your nation's proposed. And I already reviewed of them, and I'm very happy with with what you have proposed. So so it should not be too difficult. Then, yes, I would ask the chair to go for, work group I last call. And, and, and from there, we start working on the, on the framework. Instead. Pascal, thank you for the changes. They've been quite substantive since the last meeting. And, I think it's really moved the document forward. Really appreciate that. I wanna recognize that. That said, I think there's a little more work to do We'd like to try to close out the topics on, the the list in the next, like, month or so, if we are successful, that's great. If we're not, we probably will wanna schedule an interim and not wait for the next meeting because you'd like to wrap this document up. Really appreciate the the great work and, look forward to working with you if you have questions or comments, please do send them to the list if something is confusing, help us out by getting it now rather than when we go to last call. With that, we're gonna move to, Carlos Carlos has 3 nonworking group drafts. We're going, the Pascal went over a little bit, so we're gonna steal some time from you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "But you have 3 documents to make it 4. Yep. And we're also gonna run the experiment of cutting a little short on your time so that you have time for discussion from and questions. Sure. Thanks. Actually, I I I I think I will need even less time. So it should be fine. So thanks, look for the interaction. Carlos Bernard from UCDM, I'm gonna present 3 drafts on 3 different kind of, topics that were discussed to some extent already in in the row working group, but as I will try to summarize always, like, trying to introduce topics, but really getting into adoption or things like that because it was not that the time at at that time. Probably is not even the time now, but I want to bring now the topics now that, pricing in dead net. Next slide, please. So the first one is about multidomain. So the motivation for this was that in in raw, and I think to some extent also in dead net, the focus so far has been mostly on single domain topics. Although in dead net is clear that the multidomain was in the scopes in the since the very beginning and therefore, grow as well because role dependent on on on on on on on on or did it? But there were some kind of all the documents were kind of assuming, and I architecture, with a multi domain. But there are some scenarios slash use cases that, we believe will benefit or will require some kind of multi domain interactions, for example, when you may have end hosts connected through multiple domains that required to have deadnet, raw connectivity, And we refer to some potential realistic use cases in the document, like, large factories, what is as an example. And maybe I was for this draft to explore what are the potential gaps that we had in full discussion at the time, like in architecture, I am, the etcetera. For multiple men. And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "start exploring some solutions. Okay? This conversation actually already led to some discussion in the the net controller blame framework document where we added some multiple main things based on this discussion. So there are things already there, but still I think it may be worth, and that's the question at the end of the working group. Look into more more details. Next slide, please. So this is just an exemplary scenario for the sake of explaining some of the gaps on, partially the solution, which is just an example of solution. It's not meant to be like the solution by any means. So we have here 2 domains. Of them with, its own PC. By the way, apologies because the terminology, as you see, is still the all one or the one that, Pascal just introduced. That's on me that I have to update. I will be doing that. But I guess we all know more or less that we refer to the POC instead of to the PLR. And this type of things. So We have these 2 domains. These domains may be inter connected by single multiple parts. And if we want to basically support this scenario. We we may identify multiple gaps. For example, need to connect the domains. Between or among them. That may require some work that maybe is not in the scope of of then like, how these domains interconnect discover and these type of things. But there may be things that are in scope. And what I believe will be in a scope is one that we have this multiple domains connected how do we set up the multi domain parts. How we set up, like, OEM mechanisms to work over multiple domains and how we provide some coordination or interoperation between the PSC's PLRs to to work. Next slide. So I will not go into the detail the the main goal of the document is to present the the kind of gaps. And then in the document, there is some solution described, but this is an solution. I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "basically here, taking the previous example, what we have is that one domain, one only one domain wants to establish a multi domain. Bus. That request gets to one of the to the ingress PSC. And that talks to the PCE of that domain. Is aware of the multi domain connectivity and at the end of the end, note is in another domain. Based on the knowledge that that PC has request some information to the other PC about the the past has to be Established the other PC provides back the information. There is also some competition about how to device on how the the SLA or the requirements on each of the domains. And based on that, the the path can be established and also the OEM monitoring can be again, I will not go into the details, but this is kind of the overall idea. Next slide. So, just a summary, I mentioned this was presented in raw. There was some I think good feedback from the chairs in terms of, okay, this is an interesting problem. I was actually deferring discussion of potential next steps, until we had advanced more on the road working group. It was too early to look into this. Again, it may be early now, but I wanted to bring it up. And what I wanted to ask you guys is feedback. Now many days later about where you think this may be a potential interesting topic for the working group to look at. If so, how do you think it should be done, whether in this type of document or whether complementing, like, the the controller paint framework document or others that are there. And yes. Again, as for feedback on the middle of this. And that will be back for 1st document. Okay. We have a minute or 2. For questions, I guess I'll be the only one joining."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "So this goes back to the prior presentation. If you remember, when you presented can't remember if it was me or Janush, but I think we both agreed on the comment as How does this tie into dotnetmultidomain for example, take your one of your pictures and instead of having raw talking to raw, have raw talking to a wire domain. And we we wanna have a a picture where we have end to end service where you can go over wireless and wired. I think filling that in would be very helpful. And you know, the the the point that we made earlier and you said it just now is that there's some things to be worked out from any debt net multi domain think understanding that case will tell us whether or not there's more work to be done here in prior work that was done with PLRs, point of level repair, there was a notion of protection domains I think are very much analogous to the production graphs or recovery graphs. There was a explicit decision to not do recovery mix protection domains across administrative domains. That was a decision there that doesn't line up with what what you have shown. And I think this working group could reconsider that of whether that's worth you know, is it worthwhile trying to mix protection domains across administrative boundaries. It's I don't have an answer for you. I think it's for the working group, but if we start sorting through the discussion of what does inter domain, debt net look like, we can, we can get to that question. Okay. Thanks for the feedback. Very useful. And just a single comment on that. We are I I'm personally involved in a European funded project that is dealing among other things to end to end kind of dead net path across different technological domains like wirewireless3dpptsn wi fi So I think your point is very relevant to what we are doing or the other way around. And I guess we can, fit some of the world that we are doing there."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "Into the working group. Because I think it relates really much into that. I think this is aligned and Of course, I will be very excited to get more feedback from you guys, but I will try to come up with the next iteration based on your feedback. Great. As chair, I can say that is within scope of the working group, contributor, I can say I'm very interested in that work Okay. Thanks a lot. So next one is on, Mobility. Molypeasix raw mobility because the idea here is to Again, we identify some use cases, but you can go to next. Yes. Thanks. Where we may have the needs for reliability, availability, determination, networking, while some of the network notes, goof, in this particular scenario, I'm I'm focusing on the in devices moving, but I think it could be even extended to notes of the network. Moving, moving And and I think that that may require additional considerations. So if you have the of the troubles, again, discuss. Potential gaps and try to identify control plane extensions or solutions that will be required to go with mobility. The way we do that in the draft where, again, we have some potential toy discussed toy solution or solution to to discuss is by identifying sun control plane mechanisms where they device, or the network proactively may prepare for a movement at by movement, I mean, change of point of attachment. In the network. And to support that, we basically tried to implement or see how that could be implemented with existing control plane solutions in the 6. Extensions. Next slide. This, the table of content, we have like, statement and then control based solutions and there, we differentiate between, UEO, basically, mobile, not control mobility and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "network control mobility, and then we define specific extensions to proximity basics as an example of potential Next slide This is a example, a scenario very simple. So we have a pro domain. We limit in that version of the document to single domain, although in the document. There are even extensions to consider multi domain in the potential in the potential future. So we have, more. I know that is attached to one note in the network. That is a raw note. Point of attachment and then moves is moving potentially has to change its point of attachment to a different note and it's connecting. Or it's it has a com a communication with an external note. That for the sake of example is an Excel, extended reality server, but could be whatever that requires the net type of traffic. Next slide, please. So, again, don't panic. I will not go into the details. Of this, but, This is just one example, the mobile node control, the resource of the network control part. In which I want to highlight here is that, there may be, first, there may be some extensions required for the note to note to know that it has to move for her. Can move to another point of attachment that is row enabled. Okay? That's the difference between patient and mobile IP. Or mobility scenarios, where this is already something that has been looked at in the past. Some point in time that the mobile node will decide to move And before it actually moves, it can signal to the current point of attachment again. You seemed mechanisms that are based on existing fast mobility protocols that were done in the APF, about this mobility and about the requirements from the net perspective from that the net specifics. To the network. So the current point of attachment which is PropPC, PSE, PLR. Can get in touch with the new potential point of attachment and prepare the network and all the the competition of the past."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "Before the note moves. That may even include bicasting, which is also something that has been done in mobility in the past, foreign hands, reliability, while, you know, is moving because at the end of the day, there will be a layer to attachment layer 2. Sorry, Hanover. That we may may play depending may imply depending on the layer 2 technology about some packet loss and phry that. So Again, just to try to mitigate the impact of the layer to Hanover. And then once everything is prepared, then the trigger or the confirmation can go back the mobile node and the mobile node can move and eventually minimize the impact of that mobility in the end to end communication. Next slide, please. This is just the tsunami for the network control solution is very similar, but in this case, is the network. Deciding to move the the mobile note and communicating the mobile note that has to move So the preparation is done before the network. And then the trigger is sent to the to the mobile node. Next slide. Here, I will not go into the details, but in the draft, you will you have, like, mobile, PB6 based extensions on existing protocol work for the new meka messages or options that will identify us potentially require. Okay, with row specifics. I will not go into the all the details you can go to next saying just new mobility options, new with the messages, next. Alright. Just to go into a summary, again, this was presented also to in the role working group with some through feedback. As before, it was too early to go into more details. And again, My humble request for you guys is feedback, do you consider this is potentially relevant, If so, do you think that should be done here should be done in the MS, should be done in corporation. This was presented us on some ideas in the past into the real men working group, which is the host of the maintenance of the molecule 6 protocol. Any feedback that you may have, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "Send it to the manual. So to me, that will be very much appreciated the Wi Fi sucks here, so I couldn't even get official stuff. Totally sacred. So I think, if the whole IPV 6 mobility, is kind of working perfectly fine without you know, debt net reliability, throughput latency, and so requirements, and and we're only talking about the additional ones, then it's fine do it in in deadnet/raw but I'm not quite sure it's what I've seen of, of the existing assumed raw, networks that that is the case. Right? So if it's about, you know, basic mobility in the way that you're saying with with the mobile ipv6 if that would be something new for these raw networks the first place, then I would be worried whether we have all the expertise to do that. Okay. That's a fair point. I I I mean, I've been involved in mobility and in involved in in dead net. So that's why I I I mean, think I have a good overview of both sides of the picture, but I I understand that yes, we will be missing some knowledge on the mobility part and on the hand on the demon, they would probably, you know, have a knowledge about the dead net. So Yeah. In case we want to go there to to work on to this, that will be a question too. Okay. I joined the queue. Is this, and I'm not joking. Is this single domain or multi domain? This is that the solutions is in the domain, but the the options, one of them is specifically there to support potential in multilum in the future. So the draft is saying for the time being is multi domain. Could be A single domain could be multi domain in the future. Because I think the solution approach might differ, in a single domain using a PLR based approach is viable. Multi domain, it may not be."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "So you might go more to the DMM solution. So, you know, there might be something you can do special for raw. In single domain. Okay. Haven't Perfect. Thanks. And then maybe another question if, what is wireless specific or, I mean, I mean, when it comes to mobility or Well, what is specific? Like, who I mean, what is it be like an Same for wireline or more changing between wireless and wireline. Yeah. I mean, Yeah. You can move to between WAVA and WAVA command. Yes. That will be that will be something else to look at. I was, I mean, because in mobility as, like, what is the specific for the time from the point of view that at least you have to move from more wireless or to wireless because, I mean, moving in the wire, that will not be that but I think there are things specific to the worries in terms of the requirements and in terms how to ensure and compute and all these type of things are specific for the wireless to as compared mean, for the wireless, dead net domain as compared of mobility work that has been done in in in model 3 6, I guess, indebted would only apply if we have one that's to fix or fix to ones. Which, yeah, it's in this stuff like good use cases. Yep. Yep. Okay. So last one. I promise is, this has been more like, informational kind of thing, although at the end, we mentioned that it's about, or it may require a new protocol work guess this is more like an example of use of road technology in integrating also X kind of work. So the idea here is to explore how raw could integrate with edge computing. In particular, taking action sample that's in mobile, multiple access it's computing the Mac. Architecture. And there were 2 documents. 1, that is the one that I'm presenting. That is how to Then,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "how to integrate raw in in Mac Deployments. But there is also another document that is how to benefit from the information about the availability of the raw network, our own network and the capabilities of that Ronator. For the device to select were to connect considering both the row and the edge availability. So that will be to that some extent similar to what cuts is looking at to some extent because at the end, you have locations. You have a network between which is a raw network. So how to take a decision that takes both the network side and the compute edge side. Into the picture but that that's the second document I will focus in the first. Next slide. So this is the the scenario. So we have, raw network. Single domain, where we may have multiple It's platforms, or host or locations where you can instantiate its applications. Make holes using the terminal yourself, professor. That may be relevant for some industry for those 0 scenarios and you want to ensure low latency and some availability between them. Terminal attached to the network and the neck platform where the application is instantiate. So I think in that case, it may it makes sense to have this network connecting the platform and the terminal row enable or dead end enable. And the idea here will be how to simplify how the traffic, the the of the procedures will look like to enable this type of assembly. Next This is, basically from an architecture, logical point of view, how it may look like. So you have a Mac platform on the left hand side. The raw network on the right hand side. We describe that we will need to have some kind of agent or logical controlling or requesting entity on the Mac platform, this pro controller,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "basically knowing the requirements of the Nick application service, will have to request to the Ronette or that, confirmation of the network to come to basically to to meet those requirements. That may require extensions maybe on the Etsy side. But I I think here in the road net, wall is a good example of how kind of a north of bone API between the the road and that an external user, which is the edge platform. How to integrate, how to integrate, next slide, please. There are different procedures covered as an example of things that may need to be done or help they may be done is the pure request from the site. Okay. We want to deploy this application. Are the requirements. Please configure the network appropriately to to meet the requirements That's one. But then there is also the interaction between the OEM mechanisms on the row side and on the next side to benefit the other side. So, basically, may have changes on the raw network that may imply a decision to migrate an application to another Net platform. The other way around there may be changes reported on the next side that may help role to adapt. Next slide. So here, we'll just present some very simple, diagram for the first case. So you have the make application request for Ross. So, basically, you have in the in the in the next side, the request to instantiate up an application, that we'll have to interact to interact with the raw PSC, the raw controller plane, kind of to then request that instantiation, that's computation on the pro network and and once this is done, they make traffic a patient can be can be substantiated. And Then later, we can also do the interactions or interactions from, OEM or benefit neck in in knowing the status of the role and maybe potentially requiring to migrate the application"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "the other way around, as I mentioned before, Next slide. Oh, well, you have comments. Sorry. Yeah. It's off this slide might be a good place to ask the question. Yes. What is specific between the the application and the the controller that is specific to raw. Why isn't this just debt that? Yeah. That could be then. Yes. Yes. I 100% agree. That could be then. Yes. Thank you. This is another thing. I will not go into the details. I don't I mean, I don't think we have time. And again, Same questions, think this is worse documenting or discussing. Maybe that doesn't augment it. We don't need to actually document anywhere but discuss. As a as a working could be an individual document for some time. This type of use cases and this type of flows where we can see integration of raw other technologies and try to understand what may be the gaps from the control plane, from the application these type of things. And, is so please again, let me know, and and I will be happy to discuss and and to work with other people on this type of topics. And that's it from my side. Thanks a lot. Questions, Okay. So, Right now, the only sort of application facing API we have is a yang model. And I think you were saying that this you could use the dot net yang model the application facing side. So if you had, if you wanted to explore this use case, and look at other alternative ways an application to talk to a debt net which could include a raw network. Yeah. I think that would be something we'd like to hear about. We had troller plane framework that seems to have stalled So if you have, and, you know, we're cont contribution driven. So if you have a contribution in this area, 6, 6"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "it probably worth hearing about. I the my only comment is you know, say a debt net, e g raw a raw network. As opposed to the Iran. Yeah. Yeah. That for sure this a bit time, a bit that's still kind of, I know how to say, but No. you came from a a different perspective. I I know you you That's that's all good. But I fully agree. An echo that, has to be the net Yeah. Appreciate that. I also appreciate that you said you recognize that you need a terminology day thank you so much. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That for sure. Thanks. Oh, and thank you for putting us back on schedule. So, Huron, you're gonna your next And we're gonna try the same thing of giving you 8 minute to talk and leaving a few minutes to combustrums. And if questions come up in the middle, we'll be your time bound. Okay. Next slide, please. So, I've been talking about it from last to ITS and this is just to give an update on some of the review come inside, collected from, people. So Just a quick recap. What we are trying to do is, implement a use case for remote process automation And that's why the term operations and control is there. And how do we express those, traffic patterns in ipv6 extension header, and hand it off to Net Net for, as a transport. So our interface is between the application layer where it uses OCS tension header and then between the relay node. So one thing we changed in the format was added a reply bit 6"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "So just to explore it a bit, explore it a bit more that one of the traffic pattern was urgent alarms. So we will set a flag urgent in the packet. So that that net knows how to, handle that packet. Then we have latency budget information. And, reply bit is something we added later on. So let say there is a case an error condition and that not definite cannot provide that service. It can send a reply back to the nation, next day. So updates, major updates are in section 4 and section 5. Section 4 is just, removing some of the stuff that I felt was not necessary like giving some background on the dotnet architecture. We trimmed down that section. And most of the comments were focused on, chapter 5th and One thing we wanted to clarify that this is an IP based solution. So there was some confusion about, TSN, how how does interface work with DSM, or time sensitive networks. That's not the part of this discussion. We are only focused on the IP based. So that's to keep that in mind, we added a section, goals and non goals that completely describes the scope of what we are trying to achieve in this document For example, one of the thing was, lot of people asked, how will you do the mapping? And since it is an interface from an application to network mapping can be done in a many different ways. It can be based on IP network. If your debt net is supported as an IP based network. It could be MPLS based or segment, right, or routing based solution. And, owner of the debt, operator of the debt net could use proprietary or standard, whatever mechanisms to map the information. Only expectation is that, Relay Note should understand the parameters extension header. Next day."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "So Another question was Okay. For dotnet, you need to have reserve a reservation of resources. But you don't talk about that with extension header. And so we clarified now a workflow how this will happen An application management entity will at the provisioning phase, we'll talk to detonate controller plane and allocate the resources in bulk at the start. And then later on, applications associated from that site. For example, if I have, virtual PLC that can that will send the package based on extension header. And if there is any violation that will trigger an error and that where our reply bit will send an send a response back to application saying your you're - eight- eight- eight eight- eight eight- eight eight- eight- eight- eight eight- eight eight- eight eight- eight eight- eight- eight eight- eight It's an exception. You're asking for something you were not provisioned for. The next slide. Another thing, one of the question was, how will you support periodic traffic. So we did not and periodic traffic here means something like on time latency. You have to follow the strict schedules So initially when I was writing this document, I thought for that we need, of time synchronous domains. So maybe extension header is not a good solution that, especially for an TSN type of approaches might be much better. But since now, we are coming up with, large scale network support and help, help these, scheduling algorithms will evolve we may have an opportunity to support, periodic traffic and, we can look at that later on and similar, unrelated question was extreme latency, flows. And, this is something, my answer is pretty much the same that I did not explore it I would expect that, if the latencies are much lower than"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "sit 10 milliseconds and all. It depends on how you have deployed the network. We don't make any judgment about what parameters are sent in the network. If dotnet can support it, it will process it. Otherwise, there will be an error. And, one of the important question asked was will you have any impact on the field devices? For example, your and sensors that are actually that are installed in the factory floor. So for that, what we have done is the gateway translation gateway that is associated with those field devices. Will terminate the extension header. If extension header is coming to level or it will do any protocol translation the way it would have done with that net. So that that thing is also taken care of. Next day what is, some traffics, Yeah. I already talked about a lot of these things. And, 3rd bullet is more important to discuss here that There was a question that how do you handle extension header Is it something that you will strip at the Relay note and let the rest of the packet pass through. All the way to the dead net gateway, which is, connected to the field devices. And There are 2 approaches. Best approach would be that if every dead net node in the network is capable of processing tension header. And give it the right treatment. That's the way to go about it. But for the scope of this document, what we are saying is extension header is only understood by the relay note. And then you translate it into a debt netflow. And, carry forward the package or transport it using dotnetproperties that's about it. We have collected a lot of feedback and, the feelings are mixed in the sense that, people think that it is a valid"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "problem to work on. But, should we use And they don't have any clear opinion whether we should use extension header option or for this or not, I'm still talking to more people and get them on board for this Next slide. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah, I'll continue to get more review comments and just to show how this works is a note to myself that we'll try to talk about demo in next So at the last meeting, we asked for interest in the document, and we didn't get a lot of people who would red it. And while it's not fair to the people outside the room, I just wanna do a pull inside the room just out of curiosity to see how many have, read it and see if it's I don't more than the last time. Last time we did the poll with the the, outside, and it was about a third of the logical room or virtual room, just out of curiosity, can you raise your hand if you've read this talk? So we have two people out of you know, it says, 71 people, but there's a good number of people in the and it's really small I think it's interesting work. And but you're also pushing bounds quite a bit on different areas. You have a in addition to app flow and debt net flow, you now have there's a new flow term in the document, if you have what it's called, Yes. It is. Yeah. Flowless. And, you know, if you wanna go that way, you were gonna spend a good amount of time understanding how the relationship there, before just jumping into defining new formats. Also, your showing your, saying you're informational, but you're defining packet format. So, I'm sure there's something interesting here but you haven't captured the interest of the group yet."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "So, if you can, talk more on the list, see me if we can generate some interest. Sure. It's unfortunate people who have read the document or not group feel free to put into chat that you have read it. So everyone can participate yeah. So agreed and maybe one of the interesting feedbacks would be if there are any particular subsets of what's being presented that that that people are interested in. Right? So for me, particularly, I'm worried about that overall in dead net. We don't have any you know, application facing APIs. Right? We've got a controller plane and most of the legacy deployments will expect that everything is done on behalf of application devices through controller because that's classical on how it was done in TSN. But I'm I'm very worried that in the, you know, dead net environments, we would rather have to have typically API is going into applications. So that's the subset I I was Well, well, that's actually great because the, prior presentation, we came to the same conclusion that there might be something there on the API side. So maybe you wanna get together with Carlos and see if there's something just pick that one piece and start and start there. Sure. And maybe collaborate on a document, a contribution there, and that'll generate more interest. The the Yeah. Yeah. That's true. So little steps instead of one massive one. Alright. Thank you. So, David, you are next, and I gave you the control over the slides. And you have, 17 a half minutes. Yeah. You're probably gonna set the timer for something considerably shorter because, goal of this is is goal of the slide deck is not to assume all or many time, but to consume maybe the first five, maybe. Allow plenty of time for discussion. So thank thank thank thank you, Karen, for leaving some extra time. This is a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:06",
    "text": "This this report on, what we've been doing in enhanced that a data plane open working meetings, is we've held 4 meetings since last IETF. I've been a 2 part agenda. Each of them, one is in process or any of your topics, requirements, draft contents, etcetera. And 2 has been initial valuations of new proposed scheduling mechanisms, I want to emphasize that this is the initial evaluation by the proposals. These are not the these are not sort of representative of anything broader yet. We've had a couple of good price story to outcomes Another round of revisions to scheduling requirements draft and, you know, particular, some clarity on how Latency and jitter scaling differ and we have roughly common issue evaluation templates. Which is not a bad place to be. There are initial evaluations of new proposed mechanism against requirements of This is it said led led to more revisions to get requirements wrapped. All those slides are in this deck with different reference. Like, don't propose to present them here. There are there are more or productive, uses of time. Okay. So that's what we've done. So now what? Well, meetings have been productive. Issue evaluation have been produced. And we can certainly hold more meetings. I mean, I mean, we we've we've we've got the mechanics of holding meetings down, and we we can do this, but question is why should we hold meetings? The next goal, in sight is Working group selection of mechanisms to standardize, and that's by reference since the whole working group And if that's the goal, the question then becomes twofold. How do we get there? And how would or should open meetings help us get there be because if you think back to the timeline slides,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "that Lou put up at the start of this meeting. They anticipate, adoption of the draft of some initial, drafts for these mechanisms by the next IETF meeting. And with that, open discussion, One of the possibilities that has been sort of briefly discussed in the mailing list is do you some kind of taxonomy to classify the proposed mechanisms into categories and that might help us make some per category decisions as opposed to trying to make some make some, some global decisions. And with that, I will quickly run through the slides, that have been produced for initial evaluations, and then I think it's open discussion. So We have the slides through c score deadline, deadline revised, TCQF and CSQF on one slide. G o b f. TQF Advise about TQF this is Q resizing, which was added, a bit later in the working meetings. And then this is the final summary slide that's sort of show shows where we are the the the takeaway to take from here is that there are a good number of yeses in all the categories and in particular, in the 2 categories that they've been problematic 3 41 and 37, both of which are scale are scalability. Alright. At least you can get back to the correct slide. That So I can't see the queue from here. Somebody will have to have to after run after run the queue in the room. There there is to our list in the queue, but why don't you finish slide, because I think this is actually the last, Yeah. I think I'm basically done with this non discussion slide. Right?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "slide. It's in the the the the overall question is sort of it's second big bullet. Now what do we do? In order to get towards selection mechanisms to standardize, And as I mentioned, mentioned, sort of, a minute or 2 ago, there's been some discussion on the list the most recent open meeting, but perhaps we'll take a tech take a taxonomy. Characterize the proposals by sort of how they work including which TSN mechanism they are similar to. And use that to sort of structure, selection by category as opposed to, a a global selection problem. if I can paraphrase or make sure I understand So you're suggesting that there might be multiple types of queuing algorithms so that the work it might be reasonable for the working group to consider pursuing multiple solutions, but that are aimed at different classes of either requirements or problems. That a correct interpretation of what you just said? Yes. Okay. So anything that any of the discussion that you can have that folks in the room can have who are contributors to the different solutions if you can help us understand the different types of problems you're solving, the different set of requirements you are addressing so that we can under stand if we're talking apples and oranges as we're going between the, the different queuing solutions or if we're talking competing solutions. That would be very helpful. To the group. Thank you. The secret again. Yeah. So in encounter. So the, I hope it's fair to say that the meeting had primarily people on it that were involved in, authoring either the requirements document or and or some of the proposals, but didn't have the whole working group and,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:03",
    "text": "one one one of the things I was kind of in through through this this group interested to hear a little bit more technical discussion about is how we feel we can inherit existing TSN queuing mechanisms, as much as possible, unchanged think a little bit of the things that the people who are working TSN, like, you know, one of the co chairs, and and and and who else is there. I don't think we had had you very much on on this cushion in the site meetings and while I don't think that the TSN solution support the large scale from which we started the whole effort. I think that there is certainly very worthwhile to consider that there is easily applicable to dead net for for other scale networks. And I'm a little bit worried that can simply assume that something like TSNATS can simply be employed as a dead net solution. Without introducing the additional complexity that you always have to have the dead net layer and then a layer too. Kind of a a a t s n layer in it as opposed to just you know, a a TSNATS queuing layer. That directly works on, the TSN sorry, on the dead net, 5 or 6 type of flows, as opposed to the the flow classifiers that we have in TSN. Which are all flow classifiers. Right? So I'd I'd Exactly. So if you're, winking your head, I may be wrong, but I don't think that that that is that is actually very clear from our current work. It it sounds to me that you've just volunteered to write a new draft which is an informational document saying how tetnet can make use of existing TSC QA mechanisms, without running all of And I think that people who know TSN better than me would have a much easier chance to do that or at least in collaboration. Of doing something like that. Right? So kind of getting rid of that duplicate layer of complexity inheriting the subset of TSN that's applicable, which is the, let's say, ATS queuing with dead net classification hop by hop on every dead net hop. Right? So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:04",
    "text": "that and if you're saying we don't need a draft or in in any case, Right? We may be running out of time here, but it would be great to have some technical discussion about that part. Okay. For those of us who've been working this for a long time, I think there's general agreement what you said is completely valid. That there is nothing that precludes using an existing queuing mechanism whatever wherever you get it, with that. We don't have applicability documents or documents that even informational documents that say, here's how you do it, or someone thinks it's a BCP. I'm not it's a protocol spec. Maybe it's it's a PCP or an informational document. We don't have those. But I personally agree. I think that would be informative to those who are haven't been working this for years, like a few of us or some of us. So I think that that would be a great document. It's just that, you know, I I know what the dead net one. So did that, I mean, these TSN documents are humongous, right, and they have a lot of details where it's unclear what can we say they're out of scope, like, know, it's easy for the breaking packets apart. Which which we don't have. Right? So that that's why it would be great people who actually been working on TSN would also to volunteer on on helping with that work. Right? But I think that one of the things that came up, which I haven't found in the slides. And otherwise, yeah, so for the main question that, David Black is raising, how do we get to further agreement? I think maybe for all the people involved in the effort who are here, maybe we should also find more certain time to try to brainstorm that answer when we're running out of time here in I think Wednesday's meeting is also full of presentations, presentations, Yeah. My experience has been that the system the people that are building systems understand that, and they they solve it for their system, and they have no interest in publishing information that helps their competitor build a competing product. And so I think we're running into that a little bit because it doesn't take a new standard to do this. It just takes some information on on how to combine the parts. And it might actually on the standard side be as little as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "actually exposing all the necessary configuration elements for the controller plane. Right? So having that as a yang model, which, again, is a big pain point for somebody who hasn't been bread to write young models. So, yeah, well, we'll have to work through that, right, that the whole point is I think we do want to get definitely deployable in a way that, at least the controller can, you know, provision a dead net solution across more than one vendor. So so, Carlos, Janice is busy busy typing into chat that IETF is sorry. I typically is trying to help out 802.dot.oned So what I might suggest and apologize I'm stealing, Janice's thunder, is write a sort of an outline of draft that keeps what you think needs to be specified See if you can take a look at at 802.onedc and figure out, how much of of what you think the problem is, IEEE is in the process of solving I wanted to just mention that from the TSN side, such a document is happening. It's really may major It's actually an ITP essay ballot includes yang I typically essay, but that means open to review by the entire, literally, if you would like to take a look comment. You are welcome. Contact me. And let's Yeah. I think the the primary thing coming to mind the top of my head is obviously the 5, 6, double classification. Of IP packets as opposed to, you know, Vira and and takes all the layer that is there in 802.1cb. As a the IST might have identification, including IP header fields, And, actually, I I have asked a couple of people following your request to provide more information to the the Kentucky group and I'm I'm not again I mean, I I also see a value in in a corresponding data draft that may be easier to find, overall in the internet and,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "key pointers and so on. So let's sort if if it's all about, you know, the big list things we can leave out and nothing new that we need to add, that would be ideal, right, because that shows that that net is simpler than he has. So but, yeah, I mean, people from the TSN side like you have more information on that. So thank you very keeping in mind the IETF model for service delivery, we've separated out classification from traffic treatment. So if they are providing the queuing, they don't need to know about how we're doing the classification. That becomes a debt net problem. Classification, where we identify based on the 5 or tool and then use one of their queuing mechanisms doesn't require support from them. For classification. Ultimately, I think we need to try to figure out what's the minimum set of documents that an implementer of NetNET has to read to get something working, right? And and if he needs to read all the TSN stuff, especially the stuff he doesn't have care about. That's that's not a good solution. So I think it might be interesting to try to do what David was saying and put together a document and see how much is there. And one of the things we can always do if we think there's enough changes needed in TSN to support debt net, we can put together a liaison. And request those changes. We've had the reverse happen where other groups have come to the IPF and said, hey. Will you help us out? We really think we need this change in your technology. We, we can absolutely do that. We can't change their technology, but we can ask for problems that we have to be addressed. If if they will have classification based on IP addresses, or on on the 5 topples that we that we want, right, they may already have everything just a lot more than we than we need for pure layer 3 equipment. Right? We don't need all the VLAN thingy, for example, all the other classification. Right? So it's a subset of that. Maybe the queuing can be taken over. But, yeah, if if we want to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "reasonably say you can use mechanism in Detnet. I think that's the evaluation that needs to happen So if you're interested in working on such a document, Can you either raise your hand or say your name in chat? And then we could get the people who are interested in working the document together. We can get something going. So if you're interested, put your name and chat, actually forget about raising your hand. Just put your name in chat. If for some reason you can't put your name in chat, ask your neighbor to do that or I'll do it. So as for, like, extending DSM queuing mechanisms. There is an ongoing project the QD in early stages, like, meaning test group bulletin and and it's contribution driven. So even if not officially as on his maintenance necessarily individually. One can come and contribute if you see the need with nobody at the mics and listening to this question, I have not Well, heard a strong rationale for continue the open working meetings So I guess we we we simply, continue to think about that. Is there gonna be time for more discussion of what to do next in the Wednesday session, or is that one stuffed to the seams? We have no one in queue. We have a pretty full agenda on one say where we're gonna talk through the queuing mechanisms, I do think it would be helpful to hear from the proponents of each mechanism of who they think They have, they they are, I won't say it delicately, who they're competing with, and who's just solving a different problem. That would help us in our Wednesday"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "discussion. And We have a minute for actually, we don't have a minute for other comments. Thank you all for a very good initial session. We look forward to, great discussion on queuing, at the next session. There are a few other topics. So do take a look at the agenda and, co prepared to to talk thank you all for your contribution. That's you on Wednesday. Thank you, David. You."
  }
]
