[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:23",
    "text": "[Applause] [Music] okay let\u0027s go ahead and get started can somebody in the back of the room close the door thank you thank you yeah I\u0027m not sure what it says all of you all are on that side of the room it is it\u0027s like we\u0027re at work we\u0027re over here [Music] exactly all right who sp Jabbar you\u0027re doing you\u0027re doing that too nah all right that\u0027s good by me there is absolutely documentation there\u0027s even links in the if you go to the newcomers slide it actually even provides pointers to how to use the Java tools I didn\u0027t say getting it to work but he said there\u0027s no documentation there is documentation okay we\u0027re gonna get started now and we might so separate you guys over there if you don\u0027t stop talking okay we are now at two minutes past me that\u0027s why you all set over there so alright so welcome to the sacrum working group and we want to get moving because we are in the last slot on Thursday and so the sooner we get through this the sooner that\u0027s enough great over the last night on Friday I thought it was the penalty box actually okay this is the note we\u0027ll which you have seen all week please abide by it if you have any questions please see our esteemed ad and next slide there you go agenda "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:23",
    "text": "bashing I know Kathleen is not here and she did have an agenda bash so we will well we know that she wants to say something and so we will add it when she gets here any other agenda bashing alright as you\u0027re well aware we have three documents under working group last calls for the first order of business is to discuss each of those documents and the okay discuss chase through those and see what the status of it is and I have been instructed to start with EP CP which I\u0027m still struggling because I finally learned we got several very good reviews we will absolutely get right on top of incorporating the comments with those views in the document and I\u0027ll try to would it be too late to say September butts next one that\u0027s awful babies presents yeah it must be okay so so out of so did you see any showstopper issues do you think there\u0027s any showstopper issues in there no just tanked might not live past my having to deal with this 97 comments but other than that it\u0027s fine I\u0027ll let you know where the body is we told them that you wanted to say something all right so you say no showstopper issues you plan for an update in September and then we will address getting it out of working your blog call at that point yep fabulous we\u0027ll put you after the after we go over the working class called dots okay Steven Rowley so I have a very small number of slides hopefully this will be super fast so I have done some updates on the software descriptor extension to Rowley in accordance with the review that I received the first round of reviews that I got when the working group last call first started we\u0027re all integrated into version 7 and then we had the extended working group last call and I got an additional several reviews that\u0027s all been integrated into version 8 which I have posted it was like at the start of this week like Sunday or something like that so the most recent version reflects "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:23",
    "text": "all of the review that I\u0027ve gotten during working group last call I had a great lot of really great comments and a lot of really great fixes and little things like that next slide please the only thing that I would consider a major change and it\u0027s not even really that is actually a typo fix in a normative requirement the required application media-type for the coast wit was originally Co Swift plus c4 which was a mistake and that should have been application Swit plus c bore it\u0027s taken right out of the coast would draft so that typo was fixed that mistake is fixed and now we\u0027re in alignment with the coast would draft and everything is good to go and was always meant to reference that in the first place and then just a lot of minor fixes some language changes you know the kind of stuff you\u0027d expect to see at the end of a working group last call so I think the documents in really good shape at the end of its working group last call and next slide please so this giraffe does have a normative reference to coast wood but but not the other way around so I think that timing is good to kind of move them both along at the same time here up so that we can get that reference resolved so I think the documents ready to move on to the next step and leave leave up to the chairs what they think okay I mean based on the mailing list traffic I didn\u0027t see any opposition to the dress I don\u0027t does anybody here have any further comments I based on the working group last call nope okay I guess then with that we will exit let working group last call and progress it onward and upward excellent okay thank you everyone for your review and and all the help in getting the draft good thanks and coast wit Soko swig so this draft is intended to provide a concise format that helps to identify and describe software components patches and installation bundles that either may be installed a device or may be found on that device it uses the concise binary object representation to express this information the Coase would draft is based on similar constructs that exist in iso/iec 1 9 7 7 0-2 which is called a software identification tag so one way of thinking about Coast wave is it\u0027s the maybe younger brother of house with tags "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:25",
    "text": "so we\u0027ve been working on the draft for a while it\u0027s been in working group last call we received quite a few comments during the working group last call so really grateful to all of the reviewers they think we had something like nine nine reviews this point we\u0027ve addressed the comments that were provided by the reviewers three three reviewers provide us with with detailed comments those adjustments are published in the - twelve revision which is now out there on the other data tracker that was this morning the one exception was I think Alex pointed out one additional typo that isn\u0027t in that version so I figured I\u0027m you know wait until we see if there\u0027s any more comments and then I\u0027ll just submit a quick update before it goes through - to the is G so there were a bunch of changes as a result of the working group last call none that were significant from a normative perspective but a lot of clarification so fixed a bunch of you know minor editorial issue use a lot of typos here and there a lot of little grammar fixes we had a text about the use of utf-8 and Coast wit which was already implied because when you see Lauren see board uses the utf-8 but we\u0027re explaining that more explicitly now the one normative change I believe that we made as far as the model was adjusted the tag ID to allow for a you you ID to provide it as a 16 that should be a 16 byte B string and that was based on Karstens feedback I did a lot of work to clean up descriptions about index ranges removed a lot of the discussion about the the size of various fields but instead talked about the ranges I just said the discussion about private use ranges within the draft and make it more clear I did I did move the private use to negative integer values which is more consistent with some other see board based drafts which also then makes the the standards track and specification required range is slightly larger which I think is also a benefit that didn\u0027t actually change any of the initial registrations so it\u0027s really not a big normative change I had some discussion around resolving overlapping value spaces for version schemes because I also added some expert review guidelines that require that version schemes don\u0027t have overlapping namespaces and some of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:27",
    "text": "the initial ones do but we\u0027re stuck with those because we\u0027re using the initial values that come from sweet sweet tags does they in sync with with that specification so there\u0027s some discussion around which version scheme you should use if it overlaps with the value space of other of other version schemes and then the expert review guidelines I think will give us will give expert reviewers a much better basis which to review all of the new IANA registries by it says things like you know avoiding vanity names and you know to provide some guidance around providing clear semantic definitions of what each of the valid values represent how it see and and then based on some of the other comments that we have gotten through working group last call I added I Anna registrations there\u0027s three new ones that have been added these are registrations for the sweet and sweet path your eye schemes which were used in both sweet tags and Coast whit tags and a registration for using coast wid with Schwimmer which Charles had had asked for a long time ago but I neglected to go back and look at those archives so that\u0027s all of the changes in the dash 12 for vision so at this point all open issues on the draft have been addressed we\u0027ve yeah we\u0027ve completed all changes needed based on the provided comments so looking to the chairs for advice on how to move forward yes is there something in I remain on hold on jabber Dave you add in RFC five one nine eight but Carsten is writing the successor and didn\u0027t like the five one nine eight reference yeah so I looked at that and and the real difference between five one nine eight and and and its success and its potential successor because it\u0027s still a personal draft is I\u0027m dealing with line feeds because five one nine eight basically requires that you use carriage returns and line sheets as a as a line ending character and if you want just line feeds alone you can\u0027t get that based on the current definition but that didn\u0027t seem like something that was worth actually holding up the publication of coastward around because you know the the line endings that are defined in the current "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:27",
    "text": "RFC seem to be you know enough for for the kinds of use cases that we\u0027re trying to support this is think this is more common it\u0027s just Begich from 10 net okay yeah Carson would take care of that that we cannot put it in first person attract signal or you don\u0027t know how this evolves reference and it\u0027s not a real cough follow-up work you could make an errata later and say we can make it better with this unique version but I think this is not yeah I think you have to be from sort of all right now yeah and I would be happy to write and updated a draft that would update curse word at some point in the future if this becomes a an issue this is again I agree with keeping the five one nine eight records thanks Sarah okay are there any other comments on this draft okay just one second so mm-hmm so I do have to submit one more revision because there\u0027s one more small typo so if you could oh yeah but you are out of cycle actually what we had just discussed was because the the draft despite it didn\u0027t despite the fact that it did not have a lot of a lot of substantive changes we thought we would give like a two-week period for Pete for people to have a chance to review the final draft before we forward it as far as we\u0027re concerned we have consensus of the working group to forward it and people have one last chance to get all of the last typos fixed set work for everybody I think we\u0027ve got we\u0027ve had good review on this so I guess our browbeating I would say we were beyond good read to you at this point it\u0027s a lot of revisions oh it\u0027s a good working your class collar yeah that\u0027s so send them in so so we\u0027ll do a two-week double check of the updated draft and so if I were you I would hold that one typo yeah for the next okay any other comments or questions on this draft okay we haven\u0027t determined a shepherd yet do we need to do that now no okay good all right thank you so Kathleen I think so more than one Leslie ten oh great "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:27",
    "text": "Roman did I was asking her we add up administrative items I\u0027m just going through well we were going through working your class called were there other administrative - I was going to ask the milestone deep updates for the documents that are not important group last call yeah the census we\u0027ll talk about it later oh we can talk about later just do a search for IOF and you\u0027ll find that in that page I know yeah I should I don\u0027t have to be a doctor for mine okay so at I know I think a few of you it may be not I think was it just Chris and I at the Charis workshop so we went through some brainstorming exercises and for one section we talked about adoption and lack of adoption on protocols just to kind of get a feel of what helps and in thinking about this work I really want to see it get adopted right and so one of the I guess one of the core findings was for the protocols that or structured formats that haven\u0027t taken off wildly the work done didn\u0027t match what people wanted right and so I want to make sure and I know it\u0027s kind of late to do that that we kind of reassess and this is after I took a look at a few documents recently and also you know seeing that we might be splitting off separately from what s cap is doing is that the right decision you know who\u0027s who\u0027s listening to the users most so with sticks people aren\u0027t as interested is the discussion from Kara so maybe it\u0027s different from reality for other people they\u0027re more interested in using it as a format to manage their content than they are for exchanges and IO def it described more than what people wanted to exchange so that might have been one of the hindrances to adoption so in thinking about this I mean I think it\u0027s pretty clear people want to a their system integrity they want to get the data in on their systems be able to map map it back to expected policies and have secure systems so and then we have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:28",
    "text": "different methods of exchange that we\u0027ve discussed we\u0027ve discussed XMPP grid we\u0027ve discussed Rolly I personally can see the case for exchange within an enterprise I could see you know out to a managed service that\u0027s doing assessments and you may have different exposures than I do and so I kind of wanted to just take that step back for a minute and see you know maybe it\u0027s customer driven what are the cases where you\u0027re gonna see this used if it\u0027s your products you\u0027re hearing from customers where the exchange or the format\u0027s are needed anyone anyone yeah I and and then I\u0027m even wondering like there\u0027s some brainstorming exercises we did a Karis it might be worth doing some of those I might do have tools that we could do it online where we could collaborate and just kind of reassess just to see if we could maybe we\u0027re on the right track for adoption maybe we need to reassess and make sure we\u0027re doing the right thing towards adoption so from CIS experiences he is right yeah we develop best practices controls and then we have all the benchmarks and everything they offered a variety different tools software right that helped people actually implement that stuff a lot of the feedback we get or questions I should say that we get from users of the CIS controls is wow that\u0027s a lot of tools to use how do I get them to work together okay quickly right right what they want is their interoperability out of the box says that\u0027s are expensive so and and what comes to mind is a blog post from where the product managers at tripwire okay he recently posted I think it was just earlier this month house they have this idea where they actually want to create a community of open-source tools that just work together and to me it\u0027s kind of like okay yes let\u0027s do that but let\u0027s let them work on a common infrastructure based on standards correct right which is kind of where I see this work being like this working group writing can we establish what that comment is infrastructure needs to look like so that the different components in the various different workflows that need to happen just talk to each other okay and so are the most common components within a network exchanges between networks okay do we need to divide it out in terms of how we get you know staged adoption don\u0027t let me run too long like I I could develop a whole little session like I I mean Chris was eric harris i could develop a little session for an interim where we could really brainstorm this and I can make "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:28",
    "text": "you guys use posties and like really fun things for online collaboration sounds a threat that sounds like a threat i I want to see this I want to see I want to see Adams goals met right like he said I want to see that happen and I want all the hard work happening from you guys to go forward and make an impact because the endpoints have problems don\u0027t they so so let\u0027s hear what every bit the rest of the Q has to say only quiet so I will stand with my vendor hat on mm-hmm so I do have experience in some of these pieces the more complex a standard is the less likely we as vendors are going to implement unless we have extreme compelling reasons from customer demand so it\u0027s usually easier when they\u0027re simple and easy and they\u0027re iterative and we add to them and we can punctuality and feature but if I give this to product management and then to architects to look at and they come back and tell me oh that\u0027s 9 months or 12 months before we can implement it\u0027s not gonna happen just let me finish okay and if things come back and they say oh yeah I can do some of this over the weekend you know it may not take over the weekend but it does get done so I\u0027ve ranted about this before in standards not just here but in lots of other places that there\u0027s a PR marketing problem that we all suffer from and it really takes a lot of work to get the market to understand it to get you know the various communities to know what it is how it works why they should be asking their vendors for it and boiling it down into bite-sized chunks that people can grok and so I was joking earlier like who\u0027s going to start writing like that to get started guide for some of these things like they help people and I know we\u0027ve done some of it you\u0027ve done a lot of excellent work with this but a Stanford you know design school exercise with post-it notes my so again as a vendor then right so respect if I have I think is that none of this work here the code components that that you would implement as a vendor right would be considered your secret sauce your core stuff that you need to get done right I think that would be true for any better so the question I have is if there were collaborative leak about open software that you could integrate with your tools so that you didn\u0027t have to bear all the cost of developing this with that help it can help but it also depends on the complexity of the code that we are consuming and the liability "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:30",
    "text": "of the maintenance of that code there interoperability is critical interoperability documents and plugfest where we actually get vendors together and we actually start working on things and you know kind of like the hackathon that at a different level are critical I won\u0027t speak on sticks but just purely as the vendor side of it it there\u0027s things like this that can help it you also have to distill these hundreds of pages of documents into things that product management and architects can understand because quite house is there nothing so we have to delete it once there\u0027s a commitment by the business unit to implement and so I like along these technologies that\u0027s why I come that\u0027s why I try to support them I try to meet as much of it as I can and question Dave\u0027s severely may actually have comments on his document but I think that it there\u0027s a PR marketing problem that I think we could work on and help and so some of this so I think the step back to see what what the core pieces are that build might be might be quite useful this is hang and talking about this never-ending cycle of what are we actually going to do that customer need this and is it opera might be very happy about the results that we presented build from the hectare from kasnia actually were sick and tired of talking about stuff we started implementing for three hectic plans now and we know tangible really good things to show that amazingly there\u0027s light at the end of the Sun oh I think this might push some things that you would actually wanted okay Dave altameyer so I think we\u0027re probably yeah what we need I cut so we started this process what seven years ago and and when we originally were chartering you know I showed up as long as condition to a bunch of other books from the SKF community because we wanted to work on sort of the next versions of some of the core s kept specifications things like X CCDF and opal and and those kinds of things then we we ran into some problems organizing that work we ran into problems with getting IPR release and on some of that work and it ended up dragging out for like two or three years and then I\u0027m praying yes kept community more or less left and didn\u0027t come back and you know so we\u0027re here now much of that community in this room a little bit but but not much and recently Jess and I have been working to try to rebuild that community because when we started working on sac them we basically said we\u0027re not going to meet as a community anymore we\u0027re gonna start meeting inside the ietf to actually do this work and we basically stopped meeting as a community and now and and so as a result folks actually said all is just kept dead you know or you know what we\u0027re working on that because really for the last seven or so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:32",
    "text": "years there hasn\u0027t been much work on we\u0027re starting to rebuild that community by meeting outside of the IETF and we\u0027re starting to get some interest on doing some the authoring formats things like I\u0027m really reluctant to suggest to those people that we should go back and try the IETF again because it just didn\u0027t work the first time and okay so that\u0027s one thing I want to figure out what we\u0027re doing here but we can do this I think in an interim that we\u0027re doing something you know not just for the u.s. the broader community that makes sense that\u0027s digestible that will get implemented that will actually solve these problems okay and and Jess I\u0027m sorry but I wouldn\u0027t let I cut the mic and then wouldn\u0027t let him talk okay so thank you for that time right so do you do the question of having you giving you some interim time was that does that make sense with people like that just yeah okay okay let\u0027s do the official IETF way everybody hum that would like to see some interim time devoted to this hum if you would rather not yeah look at that you\u0027re welcome [Music] there we go right this time all right okay so the hackathon so Hank approves of the hackathon which is good everybody wants that again I\u0027ll mention karl-heinz a couple times on here but he joined the hackathon remotely from Germany and throughout the weekend and provided a lot of help so so we we had a number of objectives going in kind of wanted to start talking a little bit about how to represent what\u0027s information to collect from an import and from an endpoint how to represent what was collected kind of dovetailing a little bit on some of the s cap stuff I\u0027ll probably talk a little bit about that on other slides but I used some adaptations of some s cap "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:34",
    "text": "content in there we wanted to implement a simple collector actually to interpret that that what to collect information and actually get it from that endpoint thankfully I work on a tool that does stuff like that so we wanted to do some cool things with XMPP as transport we wanted to I tried to get the ability to use a number of different XMPP features to actually shuttle the data around and cause good things to happen so that i q-- stanzas the information query allows a request and response sort of model to tell and then a collector to actually grab in from from the endpoint and send it back to the entity that requested it there\u0027s some other entities other stanzas out there and other functionality we use publish/subscribe capabilities of XMPP to do that as well to move that information around and actually ended up being able to shuttle it around using just basic XMPP messages so just as I would send a chat message to somebody I can send the payload to to tell that entity to collect and not really care if they send me a response and just assume that either they would send something back if there was a if there was an error processing it or just go off and do its thing and send the data to to where it\u0027s supposed to go on top of that we wanted to do some cool things with concise map we wanted to take the collected information those system characteristics that we collected from that endpoint translate that into to the the concise map seaboard format we we modeled a little bit of that that collected information into CD DL and I\u0027ll get to that on a couple of slides and then we wanted to kind of extract that content back out from that map representation and reconstruct it as XML to make sure that it was still the same which we did so talking a little bit about the data models the what to collect and what information is collected currently the the current ovale data models actually a tightly coupled collection and evaluation into a very large document centric kind of format so you kind of have to send all of the things that you want to test and evaluate and collect and all that kind of stuff in one big format I actually extracted out all of the collection piece to make it its own sort of separate namespace so all you have to actually pass as are the what-what ovale calls objects which really allows you to just indicate what to collect there\u0027s some other things in there but we didn\u0027t get into the more comp educated things that you can do with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:36",
    "text": "oval like sets and filters and variables and things like that they\u0027re they\u0027re modeled in there but we didn\u0027t test any of them so again we redefined some of the namespaces called the oval collections and then all you need to do is again send like I only want this registry key or I only want this what did we use environment variable for example so there\u0027s a number of [Applause] platform-specific schemas that are out there so I just migrated the core in the platform-independent that kind of gave me a list of ten ten or twelve objects that I needed to figure out how to collect there are some cool XML that shows what that is there\u0027s a family object which is pretty gives the operating system family and we did some environment variables those were they those were basically the two objects we tested with the system characteristics that would come back if anybody wants to know what my IP address was okay that\u0027s not on there but the computer name environment variable on my machine is called Cisco to have it\u0027s just in case anybody wants to know that so this is an example of simple system characteristics that come back once you\u0027ve collected that information from the previously so again we were joined by Carl Heine\u0027s he stayed up nicely till to three o\u0027clock in the morning on Saturday in in Germany two to keep working on stuff he he is the expert on the concise map stuff and a Java guy as well so we had a good time conversing through Hanks sort of video chatting capabilities and were able to if anybody saw me with headphones on the entire time I was talking at Caroline\u0027s so we created the XMPP extensions to handle those collection requests actually perform the collection generate the system characteristics and actually shuttled that data back via XMPP again we did it through standard request response capabilities in the XMPP iqs stanzas we did it through publish/subscribe we did it right through direct XMP feed messages as well on karl-heinz his end he received the collected system characteristics via an XMP an XMPP adapter that he built so it basically just listens for the messages and is able to handle the payloads that we sent back translated all that into the Seaboard data published it to the map was able to query that and then translate that data back to the XML format so we kind of had the previous slide kind of showed how the the work was divvied up I was kind of basically responsible for the XMPP infrastructure the Oval related stuff in the actual collection which looks the pub/sub looks like this so the orchestrator would request the information to be collected "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:37",
    "text": "the collector would collect it and send it back and then the orchestrator would publish that to the to the pub subtopic and then the the german side of the of the equation was the XMPP adapter and translating and saving all that stuff into that the map data the direct IQ just basically replaces the the pub subtopic with the XMPP adapter on the German side I like this German and American side status the direct XMPP message again sort of does not include the the response oh I didn\u0027t update all of that slide so that that IQ response containing ovale system characteristics should just be that should be deleted from that slide sorry and it just has the the collector sending sending the message stanza with the with the system characteristics karl-heinz did all the again the stuff on the German side so he was able to configure his XMPP adapter to subscribe to that pub subtopic to receive that that information he\u0027s also was able to configure message listeners to be able to retrieve again all of that data in the in a standard message payload and a standard IQ stanza to to then translate that into into sea bore and move that into the map client and translate it back out this is what the concise map model look like so it\u0027s a series of identifiers and and metadata that\u0027s sort of links those identifiers so the I guess I can\u0027t really walk over there but the system identifier there is one of the identifiers the the collection identifier which is the one on the far right hand corner identifies the actual active collection the different identifiers for the items that are right next to the collection one identify the basically the family item in the environment variable that we collected again this is all linkage together and we could query both by system and by the collection identifier to retrieve all of the associated data that we needed in very light font and very small font with some large arrows on it I just kind of shows what\u0027s the the translated what what the Seaboard looks like before it\u0027s translated into into binary so we\u0027ve got the representation of what those identifiers look like and what the all the linkages between them so I\u0027ll try not to make you eat that eye chart so we we actually learned a ton in this we we were able to again sort of use all of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:40",
    "text": "XMP peas capabilities to both to published subscribes and the request response and send a direct message stanza containing all that payload to actually trigger the collection to receive the system characteristics send them over to the other side we were able to again translate that map data or translate the system characteristics into the map data pull that extract that information back out and reconstruct the oval system characteristics from it which can then help eventually enables some downstream downstream operations on that such as evaluation reporting etc one thing we did learn currently we that there\u0027s not a really dynamic way to sort of configure the map client it kind of has to be pre-configured with the CDL to kind of know exactly what\u0027s coming which means the the CDL would need to continuously evolve as the capability is to collect and distribute that content were to evolve as well so my collector was actually able to you know it\u0027s kind of it\u0027s fully sort of s cap compliance so it can collect a number of different platform specific items but the the concise map implementation on the other side could really only handle the family and environment variable items that we decided on before the hacks the one things to keep going we were able to really kind of help define some of the operations that and interactions between components so we want to start moving them to get them included in as part of the architecture a lot of the information from the various data models can be used and then hopefully to again sort of start defining that core set of operations that core set of interactions between the different components so we can continue to refine the oval collection model so this is kind of where I think it kind of connects a little bit with some of the s kept work that\u0027s going on I don\u0027t necessarily have a favorite place where that that that migration could take place I\u0027m happy to continue to flesh out the the oval collection models and that decoupling of collection and evaluation and take it to the S cap 2.0 working groups some of the endpoint data collection and and oval authoring you know groups to to see how that flies again I\u0027ve got no problems doing that I was at those workshops as well keep building more collection capabilities based on the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:41",
    "text": "different data models start looking at perhaps some hackathons where we can store Paul actual policy and actual definitions and tests and things like that to be able to take that data downstream and actually do some evaluation on it yeah last big thing again for karl-heinz hopefully some folks named Hank will take those messages back of thanks to him and again for staying up really late Hank I\u0027ll say was also pretty instrumental in enabling some of our collaboration and getting going to really get this hackathon off the ground so I really appreciate that so thanks to Hank and I think that\u0027s it yep hi this is student first of all bill thanks for all the work that you did and for all work to Carleton you know I was there at the hackathon and you guys were working hard the entire time you got a ton done and it was cool to kind of see the alpha with that on the desk at front I think that just kind of acting as a liaison for that effort I think that even this presentation would be more than welcome in something like the endpoint collection group shirk and and if we could work something out and even organize something like that I think okay great awesome so this is the thing thanks for the excellent overview and I think this is a this is repeating too a lot of the things we were storming at they mentioned operations like the extra things we need the architecture to define how to interact with other components we have to start leading different data models that we could show interoperability okay two items on the city data side yet but it is a proof of concept so if you can - we can all it\u0027s baby the concept is dumb system I\u0027ll know there\u0027s a select work of creating be missing CD dl-44 the symmetric metric and connection works like common areas and recipe from XML to CD d ln back and there was no loss all the time so basically we have its operability plugfest achieving right now and that is I think the a very important thing here but there is actually something coming out of this only with respect to code and yeah it\u0027s plugging and working but we have found the basis to create the actual data model that it will be able to view multiple protocols and that we can now understand better what orchestration really looks like and if we do this again and then maybe again probably aware that going to be compete because let\u0027s stop working at this between yes this will be ongoing work and therefore we will not rely on the echo fonts alone thank you I\u0027d say that might also be worth exploring just from my perspective and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:43",
    "text": "not knowing necessarily T too much about how the the CDL would be built to maybe see if it\u0027s there\u0027s a more generic way to represent it so we don\u0027t have to keep expanding it and we can represent the oval data for example in some you know something that doesn\u0027t necessarily always need a lot of modification you know if you don\u0027t have a CDA parlors of the code has to represent the specification all the boils down that we needed a CD deposit that then creates classes you can instantiate for the code that is basically right yeah yeah we have that on multiple fronts we could have fun see unfortunately not in Java first but it is almost sweet I think any other questions no thank you very much Berlin thanks to Carla hey how much time do I have as fast as I can okay you got it cool sacrum architecture this actually probably won\u0027t take very long there\u0027s some pending changes to the draft that bill and I are making we want to remove the XMP base xmpp based solution from the draft pretty much entirely right now in the unpublished like in the github my we moved it to an appendix depending on what people say it belongs or it doesn\u0027t if nobody has an opinion will yank it maybe we will put it into a separate draft if that makes sense we want to combine the current section 3.1 with the current section four which becomes the new section three and we\u0027d like to narrow the focus to a single workflow and though the one we are happened to be most familiar with is basically configuration management configuration assessment right which is still state assessment when it boils down to everything and then a few clarifications as covered on subsequent slides there\u0027s Enterprise boundaries mentioned in the draft and what we didn\u0027t want was that to be inferred as being traditional endpoints only so really it wasn\u0027t intended to indicate only on-prem stuff it\u0027s supposed to also mean you know anything that the enterprise has to operate whether they actually own that infrastructure or if it\u0027s shared infrastructure or what-have-you so it was one clarification we\u0027re gonna make another clarification this one\u0027s probably more important is talking a little more about capability versus interface versus operations before I get into those three things you might consider interface and operation combine at the abstract level to be like an interaction between different components that have various capabilities but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:43",
    "text": "essentially what we want to be able to say for a capability as some product can assess like it says in the little sub-bullet product foo can assess configuration for windows/mac and AWS using oval 511 to that we want to be able to express that between components so that they know where to go when they have something that needs to be done with one of those classes of Tecna essentially for an interface we want to be able to say configuration assessment of Windows 10 using oval 5.11 - that\u0027s an interface that basically implements that to some degree right does that make sense uh we want to be able to specify interfaces at that level eventually and right probably in the solution level and maybe not the high level architecture [Applause] operations I want to gather system characteristics from Windows 10 basically you\u0027re telling something go collect this information right that\u0027s essentially an operation we\u0027ll put some clarification in the draft around these things and people can comment and complain maybe I don\u0027t know the self architecture is we did want to talk about that a little bit too just to make it clear it\u0027s it the overall sacrum architecture kind of does have this dual nature in terms of sub architectures that there\u0027s collection subsystems right so like the EPC e vcp right EPC P draft ACP formerly easy feature is a collection of sub architecture and this sack of architecture supports that it also supports the idea of gang push or using an oval based system that doesn\u0027t go through EPC P right it\u0027s it\u0027s intended to support all of these things so we kind of call those the collection architectures collector subsystems and then above that so to speak is more of the cooperative tooling which is what we talked about at the beginning when Kathleen I was talking about you know what we\u0027re doing here basically right so the the co-operative tooling architecture is essentially how did all these different components in a standard standardize away start to talk to each other without a lot of operator intervention if any if as possible yes we want to clarify components so I mentioned we\u0027re initially focusing on configure configuration management we will propose specific components and we\u0027ll provide some descriptive details for each of those components into have their capabilities the interactions they have between each other and even the different types of interaction so in the hackathon for example they had pub/sub they used IQ which is I believe query response and then they had message which is just you send it and unless you hear something bad you assume it went well right so there are those different ways "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:45",
    "text": "of dealing with these workflows right so we\u0027re gonna kind of talk about how we do that as well with configuration management with specific proposed components there are two open questions in the draft I should workflows be documented in the draft or in separate drafts we\u0027re gonna start in the draft and if we need to we\u0027ll move it out a same thing for interfaces or interactions basically we\u0027ll start in the draft and move them out when it\u0027s necessary so basically the more detailed it becomes I think then it becomes more of a solution and once it crosses that line or ever there\u0027ll I might be we can move that into a sub draft that\u0027s it I don\u0027t have a question slide so it just doesn\u0027t move I think I a rarely say this but been my most emergency fire are resolved I will join again and with the operation routine you got the architecture yeah I can do that I will have a plenty of time something ago September so because then the most more things on place and then I could actually okay so yeah that\u0027s good so I think my intent is to publish this before I go on holiday which is Sunday so so hopefully we\u0027ll be able to publish it update you guys can can give it a read it because we moved a bunch of stuff out it won\u0027t be very long and I\u0027m lending on Saturday a vacation Sunday well it\u0027s good be treating rain it didn\u0027t somebody say that I\u0027ll be tweeting right our today\u0027s you know Texas sanction for the plantation so I have three points one is very minor one who can come back to your diagram which I well yes this one\u0027s okay just to say that I see it in five minutes to understand the grass things on the right side cuz I\u0027m colorblind so sorry so now more seriously you you have a slider about some kind of expressions see you have a slide with some kind of expressions yes this one so I am new at completely new here so I\u0027m really completely naive are you referring to a very formal expression on which year that should be at all no I honestly no I\u0027m not I\u0027m not necessarily thinking that I mean if we could get to that point I think that could help but this was really just trying to be more pedantic about defining these things that recall capability and interphase in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:46",
    "text": "operation right so actually my point is that it\u0027s not pedantic it\u0027s really important I think I said I because I am chairman and I knew as g17 and we recently had a person who came is a new work item for a universal syntax for secret expression then that was quite remarkable we start to work on that and an associate is he\u0027s a lot of benefit I think actually he started to present to 21 cos he and others to see is organization as well so maybe there are dots to connect I think it\u0027s really mattered because it\u0027s only when you stop to go at that letter that you can add many other benefits in terms of you know when you have to do your audit is your stink because we can really make this professional so I really appreciate the link as well knowing that is so network certainly be interesting to that mix happy to perhaps if the new item gets approved maybe miss enemies of statement with is it a weight that you guys work here or sorry like go simply too deep there may be eyes you could see Medicare we have such would that work about that purely informational okay right so that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s the really interesting point here the second piece related to does anything we just add so it\u0027s just a remark to myself that now I understand that really I need to put on my work program to understand better what you guys are doing here because now I start to feel the ring possible between your work and endpoint and and and I really an intuition there is more wish I mean there is motive locally proposed but let me know what you guys are doing better and then so just one quick thing oh because I know Romans gonna have us come back to this updated milestones so the only milestone we actually have associated with this on our milestones right now is to submit an initial draft which we have met do we have any sense of when we\u0027d be ready to to how close do we how many III mean no the only reason if you\u0027ll recall the reason why the only milestone we have is because we were really hesitant to restart the work so do we think we\u0027re a year away from being done or six months or I honestly hope "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:46",
    "text": "not I mean not a years I mean so so the the way it\u0027s shaping up really is to be the more abstract they so I think we talked about this a little bit where what what the intent of the draft is is to specify I don\u0027t okay it\u0027s describing an abstract architecture that is intended to provide the messaging infrastructure necessary for sending some payload right at this point I care very little about what that payload is I\u0027m just saying okay I mean so it\u0027s so like when you look at the the XMPP the actual solution right we shoved ovale through there then you know CD deal whatever it was right and it came back out that could easily be io def it could be anything right that some of the semantics and and constructs and necessary things for like even configuration management right so that if you\u0027re an Orchestrator and you\u0027re telling a collector I want you to collect something you\u0027re saying you\u0027re telling it collect this piece of information that\u0027s one way to do it you could also say watch this information from the architecture perspective at this level I don\u0027t care which one they\u0027re saying that\u0027s inside the payload they understand that by capabilities right so we\u0027re trying to say how do they each one of each component one of the components how do they express their capabilities to each other and then how do they know what language they\u0027re gonna speak within those payloads and then we\u0027re done exactly yeah what it doesn\u0027t say yeah you have to have to the architecture have to have a place that defines how to express what is the language you\u0027re just speaking because otherwise it is gibberish so that has to be orchestrated and therefore is on the architecture level itself then I say that the data model stuff is totally opaque to you you don\u0027t care and correct and that is a correct thing yes excellent I was just looking for a date so you don\u0027t want it to be a year so you\u0027d like it I don\u0027t do days [Laughter] two meanings let\u0027s say that yeah okay two meetings I\u0027d like to be optimistic and say that we\u0027d be so no two meetings you right now so we can know we\u0027ll do working group last call February 2020 okay that gives us a meeting and a half and that means we\u0027d be reviewing working group last call comments in the context of two meetings from now how\u0027s that I think it there is no there was an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:54",
    "text": "initial draft one am I not I\u0027m not seeing this oh I did find it sorry I reloaded it it was not there before was it no see okay so we\u0027re going making that one February 2020 that\u0027s only a couple months okay so that\u0027s our protection two extra months that gets you through the holidays okay so moving on thank you very much information well it\u0027s you can we talk about the other things on that I just want to say what Adam said I said okay so I\u0027m just gonna go over the information while I posted a really rough small short draft it really just kind of shockingly basic graph submitted it has a him full field to describe the different elements this is there\u0027s one interesting thing in here but I\u0027ll come back to it well I\u0027ll come back to it right now so what\u0027s in the draft right now is only a handful of elements it\u0027s really aimed at kind of what Adam and Hank just agreed to which is how do you enable kind of saying here\u0027s an endpoint here\u0027s what the endpoints capabilities are are here an endpoint here\u0027s an interface so I\u0027ll stick to Adams terminology to the best of my ability while I speak here\u0027s an interface here\u0027s the interfaces capabilities and then there\u0027s a little bit of you know some kind of command type stuff in there so I added composite structure type notion in this so this is information model so this is still a high level but I haven\u0027t used it yet I can envision that people might want it but I\u0027m not sure if I should keep it okay there\u0027s one vote for keeping it [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:04",
    "text": "I\u0027m gonna keep doing this from the chairs desk for a second Wow sorry yeah so I mean there\u0027s one vote to keep it it\u0027s that would really be about future proofing this but I could imagine its usefulness especially if you you know have any kind of version where you want to do a compound version of a host but I haven\u0027t done anything like that yet so another idea that\u0027s in there is the idea of opaque an opaque information field and so this is really kind of the basic description and so I have communicated with Bill some I needed to kind of finish this but which is right now this is basically the thing that would have an envelope of some other type of data in the in the information [Music] thank you so there\u0027s pros and cons to this in my opinion into opinions on what we should do here are also welcome so if if I allow any kind of opaque element and let you to transfer anything as you know just kind of a blob within in the structure then there\u0027s very little motivation to standardize more elements on the flip side to kind of Brett\u0027s comment from before this potentially lowers the bar very much to doing any kind of implementation because there\u0027s only a handful of fields you need to put in and then you can put in your blob as long as the other person knows what the blob is Hank I am frowning at length on the information that\u0027s an implementation specific problem so what I have so far has nothing with regards to how you would we really represent the data or do any kind of serialization deserialization but it does let you for me octet lengths does let me think about kind of the you know what the elements you know what I what I\u0027m dealing with for you oh you\u0027re forcing them to binary so it\u0027s a data model thing and I would touch that fair enough fair enough true I don\u0027t know if I your comments Val alright so another kind of thing I\u0027d like some feedback on so I just have a handful of really I mean I just sue most of the document was actually written but I added this after I talked to Adam in bill so that was this week "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:04",
    "text": "lucky for me I didn\u0027t post anything till this week so you didn\u0027t know that I added one assessment assessment result capability to discover or obviously I also have to be you know some kind of version of how you do those negotiations I envision some kind of enumerations that would be I in a register of you know the types of data formats that could be exchanged in those ok cap envelopes I don\u0027t think that\u0027s a complete list of commands I don\u0027t want I\u0027m incapable of getting too far ahead of of say bill in and karl-heinz and anybody else who wants to participate so I will by necessity lag them somewhat hopefully by not too much say that you know what you have is kind of in the same vein as things that Adam and I have discussed about things to put in architecture as well so we can more Nina you know that that is absolutely the the goal and and I\u0027m tracking what you guys are doing as to what I put in here so I obviously do want the information model to align and I\u0027m paying attention good for me what I am a chair as it turns out yeah which means you know I don\u0027t have to beat myself although maybe I do to read everything this is the only place where I\u0027m using a list currently so there\u0027s at least in the current version of the information model there\u0027s one thing that\u0027s the command and then there\u0027s an Associated list which could be the parameters in the return types I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s the same way to do it I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s great in the information model but that\u0027s what it is right now and I\u0027m happy to accept people\u0027s better wisdom so this is generally our Macdonald Carsten would say that opaque was the ex name mistake happening again yeah but I think I would have agreed with that one I described the opaque type upfront it\u0027s exactly the same yeah it\u0027s a nice yeah no I know but so he\u0027s listening so I would agree with him in that yeah the ex name is I would have the opaque the opaque is tight and I that would become a registry so it\u0027s only half or three-quarters as bad as the it has the X header I think Kirsten might be saying talking about ECP 178 which talks about not using like hex names because he gave the same comment on Kara it\u0027s why I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:04",
    "text": "looked it up I think that\u0027s the I have to look that up but yeah for me a little bit of chicken in the egg right because I think we\u0027re gonna exchange over an ARF and maybe some some version of concise map or if\u0027 map or those kinds of things and I don\u0027t know how to square that circle yeah and that was kind of it and so this is the kind of feedback that I\u0027d like to get from you guys and obviously I mean I know bill on Adam and I have talked and I will continue to talk and follow what you guys are putting in there but that\u0027s the that\u0027s the gist of where this is heading and I\u0027m happy to have people help that so we have about two minutes for discussing this any questions comments I would agree to the same milestone that Adam agreed to so I know it was just posted today you\u0027ll agree to the same milestone that Adam did yes Adam was working group last call are you serious yeah okay which is because vibha really was cold and have proof of concept and it\u0027s actually by over then again I see your start with addresses first and always I\u0027m a big fan of lecture on amis so maybe have the categories again and saying this is addresses intended to be used as identifiers isn\u0027t yada yada yada baby so I actually do have something so I had some sort of category I guess I have something that\u0027s kind of data use type and so I can change that to category oh yeah I see oh I just real quick so on architecture is happy to collaborate I know that we intend to establish some registries your draft says it\u0027s gonna establish some registries we should at least collaborate for that right yeah absolutely and I they I assume some of them will be the same they only need to show up once so I just want to go back to milestones room huh yeah that was my point yeah you know what we\u0027ll get there so so I was going to suggest that perhaps the initial draft would be a dot the initial milestone would be adopted as a working group document and maybe we would set that for maybe September okay okay all right so I think no more questions on thank you very much for putting this in so the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:09",
    "text": "next thing is next steps and I think the first thing that we\u0027re going to need to do real quickly is our area director has asked us to look at our milestones which were at the beginning of this meeting awfully out of date but some of them have now been updated we have been so the questions I have for you all were so I that we said that the early software descriptor and coast would to August 2019 to go to iesg we did 2024 working group last call of the sacrum architecture we actually need to put a milestone in for the EPC P to the IES G so we will put that one in for September of a second see Jess just September of 2019 you think that\u0027s we can do October if you think that would be a little let\u0027s go for October well you did get what wasn\u0027t 96 or 97 97 last minute comments imagine that okay so so that actually leaves three things that are on our current list of months so we need to add a milestone for the information model because we currently don\u0027t have that as a milestone and that leaves three things that we don\u0027t actually have anything related to I warned them earlier that I might separate them if they didn\u0027t stop talking okay so the Roly configuration checklist so the draft expired a long time ago and I haven\u0027t made any updates to it at this time I don\u0027t have a 100% certain answer either way as to the fate of that document moving forward if I can find the time I would certainly like to work on it more they\u0027re really software configuration checklist Roman did it again I mean do people still want to do this Adam had this maybe Tom\u0027s the answer maybe "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:24",
    "text": "Hey I guess this is Bill I guess it\u0027s for the the early checklist one I would I know you got a template for like basically how it would be done and so that that makes it a lot easier straightforward the only complication with that is just scope what you meet my checklist is that an XD CDF is that a data stream collection what is that what is that is it is it all of them so the more formats that you can express the checklist the obviously the more complicated it makes it so let me say that because I think that if I were to get the bulk of that text down and then maybe come and talk to you guys instead for just that technical filling in those technical fields that detail like once I say oh we\u0027re gonna put X CCDF in it come and talk to you and say well what fields or what things inside of X EDF would be important to take out I think that\u0027s a pretty small lift I can do the pros so I think there\u0027s between us enough interest in effort to get an update down okay in terms of milestones I think what you\u0027re asking okay I can have a fresh version of the draft with probably input from these guys for the next meeting I think you\u0027ve okay we want to talk about is not the next draft what do we think we\u0027re going to well I think that maybe we should edit the milestone because at this point I think the point at which we had a date in there for submitting it to working group last call or submitting it to the iesg we had we had a document that we were currently I mean you come up with a milestone person for starting working group last call okay I wanted to do that but I don\u0027t feel it carry with the milestone like what we pick last whatever works you guys work well I would never know because so I\u0027m a part of this is do we have interesting doing it we have energy to do it do we defer it I mean be nice to be able to kind of have a plan they won\u0027t fire I\u0027m willing to help you and and there\u0027s not much left to do from my understanding the last time I read it was maybe like six months ago but it looked like things were kind of there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:25",
    "text": "right and I have some expertise in those formats as well so I can help you maybe maybe you since you know I\u0027m easy to find for you I can help you but ELLs in and then we have okay so maybe that means that can have something that could be ready for the group to review by the next meeting so so why don\u0027t we say submit to the is G in March of 2020 okay excellent so then there\u0027s two more drafts and actually the milestones are initial drafts and I haven\u0027t seen initial drafts on either one of them so perhaps we should defer these and that\u0027s the ECP over transfer and yang push over transfer mechanism interface so do we want to do this work yeni push is done the only thing I\u0027m making this faces I didn\u0027t know that we planned for that I totally forgot about it was that so so little me yes it\u0027s a valid producer of information and I assume that we can revive that when we are at the place in the architecture that has the appropriate set of operations to initiate that so I would assume after the next meeting we can start working on that effectively before that it is just wishful thinking so but but it is still something that that yeah we think we should do so after the next meeting so maybe initial draft in February 2020 and during that phase we can initiate draft have a 0-0 next house integrators so all I want is a thumbs up thumbs down we\u0027re going to continue so thumbs up we\u0027re gonna continue it and we\u0027ll set a initial draft end of this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:28",
    "text": "year early next year end of this year is very likely okay so we\u0027ll make it January of 2020 that way you\u0027ll have all of December all right and then the ECP one no no no that it\u0027s a different draft it\u0027s the ECP over transfer mechanism it\u0027s not the all right so we\u0027ll take that one to list okay so that covers that covers all of our existing milestones Hank you only have to be quiet for four more minutes for the note C right yank push so then you airy 20/20 okay so then the one thing that was not there\u0027s two more things on the agenda one we\u0027re not going to talk about it but we need and we don\u0027t currently have it on our milestones but there is still that terminology document that has expired that it\u0027s actually if it sees the current scope we are pretty fine and you just have to revive it when the time is right and the architecture has a place to fit with the characterization profile yet above you\u0027re starting on that so I think that the architecture is done we should be able to complete the terminology iteration later so give me four months after architecture okay architecture plus four alrighty so the last item i have i think that we have is scheduled going forward and well we will I mean for better for worse we seem to make better progress and we have virtual interims so I was thinking without at all coordinating with my co-chair to virtual interims between now and the next meeting I was thinking early September early to mid October is there anything stands out really obviously like maybe the week of September 9th I\u0027m looking at the week of September 9th September 16 or and then following that week of 7 October or 14 October and so none of you all see any "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:31",
    "text": "major okay so schedule 2 virtual interims anything else any other business excellent thank you you are free to go you have 2 minutes left "
  }
]