[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:40",
    "text": "all right good afternoon everyone hopefully you\u0027re here for Datsun we\u0027re gonna flash up the slides in a second here all right hold on we\u0027re gonna work on an Eevee issue initially sorry all right so we have a slides up so why don\u0027t we get started hopefully again you\u0027re here for dots I\u0027m Roman Janelle you with my co-chair to be as gunroom so let\u0027s get started next slide please we graciously have a new taker Frank is gonna cover that do we have a jabber Scott all right awesome thank you for the jabber scribe and the blue sheets are going around next slide please so we have an agenda up there\u0027s just been a little bit of tuning from what you saw on the mailing list related to time would anyone like to bash this agenda please Mike okay okay let\u0027s move forward so we have a usual usual order of affairs here we\u0027re going to talk use cases requirements architecture then we\u0027ll get into the protocol discussion and we\u0027re gonna have some exciting conversations related to our hackathon and our Interop testing next slide okay a lot of activities since we got together last we did have a virtual interim in Akhter early October and we\u0027ve seen a ton of discussion on the mailing list related to implementation experience next slide and I just wanted to call attention to something new in in the world kind of last week or two we\u0027re trying to get more content organized we obviously use github a lot we have some implementations so wanted to put that all in one place so there is now content on the dots track wiki in github you\u0027ll find working copies of almost everything that\u0027s cutting edge there and the issue trackers are live there so if you want to point out something related to a particular draft that\u0027s in there and the different editor teams right now are trying really hard as we\u0027re trying to get to working group last call on various documents to really be transparent on what are the outstanding items there then just lastly just to point out again we have to live implementations you can see them referenced there and we also have a public test server that\u0027s also up and running that you could if you\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:40",
    "text": "building an implementation used to help you next slide something I want to talk about later as we go through the different drafts is we\u0027re behind on some of our milestones and we want we need to crisp up what we want to do about all of that all right so with that why don\u0027t we get started first up we have Roland Dobbins who\u0027s going to be a remote and he\u0027s going to be telling us where we stand with use cases Roland can you please step to the mic in me tech oh so I can put you on the presentation yes something is happening or not no sorry the screen okay Roland if you are having trouble connecting then we will move to the next one which I believe is Andrew if i remember that correctly ah hello Roland wonderful okay so then perfect these go please go ahead guys are showing us because I don\u0027t see those yes I am doing so I\u0027m currently on your cover page there is some audio challenges to hear you can you speak either closer or louder itself we\u0027re still having a lot of difficulty roll at Earth okay rollin can you try to reconnect as a troubleshooting mechanism the media co team here is trying to troubleshoot oh and try your headset on when you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:40",
    "text": "reconnect and apologize for the room for the delay and if we if we could ask subsequent presenters if you have a headset can you get it ready to be a syndrome can you hear me yes is this sick annual this is Andrea how\u0027s the audio quality actually you are fine okay good glad you ha maybe maybe we should move with you and swap the two slots and so anyway then please you go ahead and tool Roland you\u0027re gonna come right after Andrew all right I have your slide up okay great all right so everyone else falling along remotely we\u0027re switching to the requirements slide Jack and Andrew the floor is yours all right great thank you everyone I\u0027m sorry I can\u0027t be there for this meeting but thank you for accommodating the remote presentation we\u0027ll start with a pretty brief overview of the remaining work with the dots requirements draft this is a revision oh seven can I have the next slide please I think the the major work is really an attempt to address some heart beat concerns that were brought up at the IETF 99 meeting in the wake of some implementer feedback we\u0027ve also had the good fortune to get a lot of working group feedback in the interim lots of coal requests thank you very much everyone we\u0027ve addressed a lot of editorial minor editorial issues you know some misspellings and rewarding some clarifications and we do not have any issues open on the github tracker currently that doesn\u0027t mean we are not anticipating anymore but there are no open issues at the moment may have the next slide please so the first issue to come out of discussion around the the heartbeat in the wake of some of the implementer feedback was this idea of a zero heartbeat mode in which aDOT\u0027s client might be able to just request mitigation without having to stab you know continuing heartbeats between the the client and the server this would have been just a minor change to the requirement level for an implementation but in subsequent discussion we also uncovered the need to have some heartbeat rate flexibility especially during peacetime there were some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:40",
    "text": "concerns raised about the potential load that clients could impose on a server by overwhelming it with heartbeats especially when we\u0027re talking about having a heartbeat rate at around 30 seconds at or below 30 seconds so the this revision of the draft attempts to create space for both of those considerations what we have currently is that the heart rate heart beat rate must maintain that bindings when mitigation is active so there must be a heartbeat rate that\u0027s at 30 seconds below when a client has requested mitigation and that the rate the heartbeat rate is flexible during peacetime we do know this this is something that we\u0027ve also gotten some feedback on so we anticipate adjusting this slightly it would be useful during this meeting to get some discussion of that as we we press toward working group last call but I believe with these can we addressing these concerns we\u0027ll have we\u0027ll have covered a lot of the remaining work may have the next slide please pages up remaining issues okay great thank you it was just a little slow to update on my end alright so there\u0027s also been some honest discussion of NAT considerations it seems like a lot of this can be covered in the architecture which I will cover in the next presentation that I\u0027m doing but it\u0027s not clear to me that there are there\u0027s any impact on the requirements as a result of this discussion of not considerations I don\u0027t in going back through the archives I don\u0027t see anything that means an obvious change to the requirement but other members of the working group may disagree with me I believe Artyom brought up the possibility of black/white list conflict resolution my impulses is simply to say that white lists will supersede black in this case but again the the working group may disagree and finally there was a discussion raised by John Chow and furthered by thiru on the issue of order in tackles it sounds like a recent nut Model Model Draft has has added ordered a cassettes which we would need then to to potentially address in the requirements themselves but I believe this is this is all that we have remaining the have next slide other than that we are looking to go to working group last call and I hope that we are we\u0027ve been at the verge of it for a long time and so I hope we\u0027re actually seeing the end in sight and I believe that does cover it okay we have a line forming at the mic Edgar you ready hey Andrew "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:40",
    "text": "Fleming and race near could we get the what was it two slides back again with you to open questions yes on that discussion I agree I don\u0027t see any impact on the requirements in terms of the other two items black white there\u0027s conflict resolution and a glue ordering do we really need to deal with that in the requirements or is that something that we can just deal with in the protocol drafts themselves I\u0027m entirely comfortable just handling that in the protocol Drive themselves these were I was a specifically to bring these up for a discussion during this presentation so I am dutifully doing that okay yeah I would agree with that I mean I\u0027m fine with dealing with that in the protocol dress as well thank you procedurally on the Akal or ordering issue we\u0027re tracking that as on the data model draft from the interim meeting discussion any further feedback on the requirements draft shall we first move to use cases and then circle back to here yes that was the question okay let\u0027s talk milestone now for requirements draft like at least from from a chair perspective I think we have discussed this quite extensively as andrew has also mentioned and the question is are we ready to go to working group last call swimming and race and I took a look at the document before the meeting I think it\u0027s really I think we\u0027re good here so this is to be as with working group chair head off sorry that I\u0027m not getting off of the chair at the moment I also start and read the document I would agree with that perception do we should we ask how many have read this or okay so then could someone raise whether you have seen the last iteration or the one before the last and read it one two three four five six seven something six six ish so that\u0027s not okay as any one intention to study the current document and doesn\u0027t didn\u0027t have time yet to do so to review it one two more so you want to read it again so okay okay I\u0027m looking at the ad I mean from my perspective this looks like we could go for work last call okay so let\u0027s ask well the the author kind of team I mean Andrew do you see any issue with going to working group last call no I do not yeah so then without objections let\u0027s let\u0027s say in two weeks we initiate it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:41",
    "text": "what do we call so expect that in yeah in two weeks time from now we will initiate working group last call and it will have a duration of two weeks so if you want to read it now you can read it and then you have plenty of time to post your comments okay moving back to the use cases Roland can you hear us did you miss your audio working now Roland we cannot hear you all right Andrew can you proceed with the architecture discussion now we have your first slide up certainly all right it\u0027s me again so let\u0027s let\u0027s get started this is the five revision of the architect\u0027s draft next slide please all right we had promised end-to-end scrub at the I think ITF ninety nine we had it reiterated that intention during the interim and that\u0027s end n scrub is not complete thanks largely to Fleming\u0027s work it addressed a number of editorial issues and also captured a whole minor but important changes I think and we believe that the document is generally in good shape as a result of this word one of the things that it does is highlight the optionality of the data channel the dots client can operate entirely without using the data Channel but it can also take advantage of the functionality that the data channel offers to do things like install Ackles black and white lists so on but it\u0027s not necessary by itself as a component of the these signaling may have the next slide please all right it\u0027s Sam Thanks so as I mentioned in the requirements discussion there was some discussion Matt on the list I\u0027m sorry I\u0027m having some echo in just a moment there was some discussion of not on the mailing list largely that is going to be focused on the architecture so that\u0027s where we\u0027re proposing to move it one of the issues that was brought up is dots hi in signaling from a private IP space through net to request mitigation we need to discuss how the dot server treats that and how it both ends interact when such a model is being deployed and then the other thing that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:42",
    "text": "came up as a result of further discussion was how to request mitigation for privately address services maybe using D not NASA not let\u0027s say has something a service that\u0027s being deployed in let\u0027s say a private cloud you need some way to let the the dots client know what mitigation scope is the actual scope it should be requesting from a dot server that might be in a different administrative domain next slide please so the only open issue right now is the request for in that consideration section however we do have one pull request proposing an addition of an appendix covering multihoming we\u0027ve had some discussions among the document among the draft team and we\u0027re not sure that the full appendix is something that we need to have but potentially some minor additional work regarding multihoming and when we have that we do believe we\u0027re ready to press forward with the working group last call next slide please that does complete the update okay any comments on the architecture draft no I do have yeah I do have a question about other than that considerations I would like to know if the working group believes that I\u0027ve adequately summed up the the discussion of the gnat conversation on the list so that we can capture it in the net consideration section silence is a scientist know folks are walking to the mic stand by okay thanks yeah I mean she\u0027s got from NTT communications so regarding to not yeah if the it\u0027s channel and you know each other is is kind of separated then some of mobile applications or something can do education from those client in mobile applications so in that case I thought to be within a private IP address space so I can heat up on such kind of the situation okay thank you any further comments okay hello hello this is a job you said about the multihoming and appendix there is another draft from never finish so what is why then there is a need for regarding multihoming I agree with you yeah I don\u0027t I don\u0027t agree that we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:42",
    "text": "needed an appendix covering multihoming this is a this is a proposed pull request from another working group member and my my sense is that it\u0027s not appropriate for the document but potentially some minor additional discussion of multihoming maybe Flemming and then Roland yeah Flemming injury isn\u0027t so I\u0027m one of the co-authors but just you know for the benefit of the the larger room so I mean I\u0027m in agreement with Andrew you know both on the the NAT considerations right we need to add that I think it\u0027s capturing what has been discussed on the mailing list and I also agree with the multihoming I think there is treatment of that in the architecture draft right now and I think what\u0027s being proposed to being added right now I think goes be up and above and beyond what is really necessary for the architecture document so we can look at it you know one see if there\u0027s any wording tweaks needed but I think in appendix is probably a little bit too much okay rowland comes next hopefully you can hear me now yes we can and we can see you yeah so um I under a met on the net considerations and also agree on the multihoming stuff multihoming stuff suppose is basically tcp/ip 101 and we don\u0027t need that and in the Demetri documents all right thank you so this this is a difficult question when to discuss this because like I also saw the multihoming draft and I was having exactly the same question it\u0027s like do you need an appendix or is this separate document or not either and maybe this is a topic for later today yeah we defer this yes we defer this to later if that\u0027s okay so let me come back to one question like who has reviewed the architecture draft in the last or last two previous to last version wow that is super low that means like three reviews and like wow four okay Oh I mean it\u0027s should I maybe change the question is there even like should we proceed yes yes okay believe we asked the question at the last meeting and there is still interest in publishing the draft remains right about the demographics who has intentionally reviewing it after this meeting going forward so we know whether we are like close to working group okay one two okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:43",
    "text": "three and one on the driver okay so three okay one question to the chair to the authors when do you think you will be finished with this last cleanup that you proposed on the page the two open issues you know speaking only for myself I think the net considerations is very quick work we have a lot of this already captured on the mailing list and then the multihoming discussion I think we can probably discuss among the authors we will communicate with the author of the pull request and let\u0027s see if we can get something that\u0027s agreeable to everyone but I don\u0027t anticipate just taking much work okay so assuming it with the only net considerations within the next month yeah yes I think that\u0027s reasonable okay so so our original plan was to stagger working group last call of requirements and archit sure so that would actually work out quite nicely to go working her last call if the document would be done in a month okay so we\u0027re gonna defer the conversation related to multihoming until we talk multihoming perhaps we now Roland\u0027s online we can pivot to the use cases Roland would you be ready to present now hopefully if you can hear me okay we can and we have your slides up okay great so let\u0027s go ahead and advance to the next slide please okay so we made some very significant changes versus 409 we\u0027ve reorganized the use cases and the idea here was to make it so that those who are really focused on implementing dots you know coders pretty much very quickly see what they needed to see in terms of the anticipated communications model whereas those who were more operationally focused and who actually cared more about things that are externalities to the dots protocol itself that are our key or network operators founders and you can see what they needed to see without either having to really leak read some use cases that have lots of different variations but that wouldn\u0027t necessarily be of interest to to either party we streamlined the dots Communications modeled listings and change of the verbiage to make it more accessible we added lead us to the security considerations which probably should have been worked the first we added an internal main use case back in o8 an additional one that was suggested by the working group so thank you for that next slide please we need more feedback on the home network use case we just got some from Fleming and from some other folks that\u0027s good or WG feedback on that question for the working group do we need a use case which involves dots game "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:44",
    "text": "I\u0027m inclined to think that we do but we need to hear from the WG do we need any additional intra-organizational use cases and if so we would love to hear the specifics of the use case is that WG member which is offense think should be added and of course any additional feedback would be greatly appreciated as well are we essentially ready for working group last call I don\u0027t think so quite yet we\u0027ve just got some additional very good feedback on the list that our organization and refactoring have this aft has been good that we need to go through one more iteration so I don\u0027t think that we\u0027re quite ready yet but we\u0027re close on a a draft organizational perspective next slide please and that\u0027s all I had very open to feedback from the working group at this Wayne Fleming Andrea isn\u0027t so I agree I don\u0027t think this document is quite ready for working group last call yet we got some comments I think Roman you made some good observations as well I would encourage though the group to get this to working group last call pretty quickly I I think you know the should say they return on further investment right is to managing at this point and I would like the group to start focusing on the protocol drafts so if we can get to that sooner rather than later I think it would be good sure we\u0027re prepared to have this read in a week or so based on feedback from the working group either in this mission or on the list on the list is always very helpful to visits document for the one to see and for them to comment on this wrong so from working group chair perspective definitely a very strong encouragement to have all discussions on the mailing list I think we have observed there were a couple of side channel discussions which I believe at this stage is not so helpful I think this should all go to the mailing list yeah I also don\u0027t think we are ready there yet so maybe one question who has reviewed the version Oh 800 900 nine of the use cases draw hands up okay okay so it seems we are hit again by demographics that\u0027s just for and it\u0027s for yes yes these were just the last well well but there weren\u0027t significant changes on the last arrests who has plans to review the draft in version oh nine now going forward in the next two or three weeks one two three okay there\u0027s a couple of hands good okay so that\u0027s good yeah I think yeah so so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:48",
    "text": "let\u0027s wait for the review but also to the author team please do not wait for the review and make your vision as it is now so we can proceed as fast as possible to working group last last call sure so the feedback received already about further refactoring of the organization we can go ahead and implement that now without additional working group feedback but of course we would like additional feedback you know prior to trying to go for the GLC okay thank you thank you okay so we\u0027re gonna have to juggle the schedule just a little bit the presenter for the multi-home draft and the signal data channel is not available until 2:15 so if we could swap further architecture discussion with discussion about our hackathon report in the interrupts economic would you mind coming up and talking to your slides so if any of you\u0027ve been watching the mailing list you\u0027ve probably noticed that there is a significant uptick in volume related to implementation reports and that banging on this signal data draft so I wanted to reiterate on behalf which you come to Baez about how fabulous that is so John thank you for kind of coming with the implementation Konami and your team thank you for hanging on your implementation as well and driving that feedback to the working group it\u0027s really phenomenal and accelerating our progress to closure yeah thank you just I\u0027m kinda missing to come from entity communication so we did first internally test at this hackathon so address to report about the activity on the hackathon so those working group is aiming to make our protocol to be standardized in this year so now we have several individual implementations one is echo dot from entity which is open source project so all of course are available on github this issue groups have proper proprietary implementation so this first interoperability test between them oddly this hackathon is a giant step for approving it works so what happen in the hackathon so the three active projects are conductive priori with seven participants so but it includes three remote participants from Tokyo London and 19 and they\u0027re our main project is as I see integrity test of the individual implementations and also for people feet are added new features and extensions to the open source implementation and one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:52",
    "text": "person tries to integrate it with a detection system of Berea botnet X P so then we won an award of best open-source project thank you so hot I\u0027d like to report about inter interrupt testing so Jon shallow from NCC kindly participated in this hackathon and interpreter testing remotely from other even if it was almost midnight thank you John yeah next please so this is the result of the intro test we tried to make it green and we managed to do that by changing the code during the hackathon unfortunately because of lack of the functionality of gold quartz which is the opposite project though it lacks the functionality of status notify and Akashi update and heartbeat so we only tested the rest of the functionality on messages of the only signal channel and in species implementation we already have all of the functionality of these messages on signal channel so we tested Godot client against in the series dot server and also with we tested in the cities dot client against co dot server so due to the time limitation we couldn\u0027t conduct all of the tests but we are continuing to - those tastes even after the hackathon before we get off that slide can I ask a couple questions so green means the Interop between the two implications worked yellow meant it did not and then the internal testing was it correct me when I\u0027m wrong the internal testing is one implementation just connecting back to itself yeah that\u0027s right though I don\u0027t have to mean that our testing between grant father of the Asian okay then our yellow box is include not tested pattern and also it includes tested but failed oh sorry I it is getting together but yeah and you could you clarify the third column so I I was aware of the NCC implementation the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:52",
    "text": "Gurdas and competition and then there\u0027s a huawei implementation related to internal testing could you explain that yeah Howie is trying to expand the open source project so they have now it\u0027s on implementation based on the Accord so they update they added the authority of efficacy updates so they tested internally those function by themselves so here\u0027s what we proved it in D it drops so we now we can start and handle mitigation from each client of a thoughts to know each other of Scott on the TTLs by mutual request of god third gate and delete then dot server of both and can activate the limitation action by the bottom service so as I said we tested both cry out and functionality each other plus in the city\u0027s group\u0027s implementation can act as adults gateway so we proved that a related mutation request can work over multiple organizations so okay the general feedback 2.1 group we had a lot of implementation experiences for example most of the code modification was related to encode and decode of Shiva mapping so they are here the type of not called Shiva mapping and there are many implicit specifications we need to figure out and agree on so we will do feedback about the only description of the content of the draft and also we assume that approximately 60 percentage of the signature speak has been proved to work so the rest will be done at or by the next IETF okay the feedback from my site before the interruptus we prepared these things we I under John agreed on port number and URI path the port number is supporting the zero six version of signature doors on your path is supporting the receiving dozens of the draft and we fixed Shiva mapping which was pointed out by John and we updated at the models in order to suppose the latest signal Chara draft the week updated codes during hackathon which includes the meeting empty new entries in requests and we fixed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:53",
    "text": "response body the sublet is the most important feedback to talk about Europe in order to find the intended behavior we need this scenario which covers all of the situation of the request and the response type our Norma and error on this behavior so we thought if she never see the police did our shared with working group so we really welcome that and next to slide include any city groups feedback to those wacky rude okay updated code during hackathon Shiro JSON mapping are fixed for new entries and still removed new entries confusion and deleted new entries in any response and they added support for communication request with India\u0027s in group food and actually a dot client of NEC she crushed our dot server so that that is problem my implementation side but in this job disabled signal channel ask your configuration wicket and heartbeat so still we are intensively working on tasks so on John is also continuing work so okay he have he already have fixed some functional functionality even after the hackathon so the second point was already fixed yesterday so these questions from John and I is listed here so first one should new entry be allowed should are null the entry of type object be allowed when ignition is RA who as I said some of the entries was included in our rebates so John John\u0027s implementation is solid enough to accept such new entries but the question is should it be strict or not about the new entries okay and the second question is about the lifetime in the request so we sometimes use requests which include a lifetime zero so John Szabo treated last time zero requests okay if the last type is zero in request John set the lifetime of that mitigation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:55",
    "text": "request to the default value of the his dot server but it is not explicitly written in the signature draft so what should happen when last time he called zero request is requested by dot Claire it should be described in this draft and the third question is very important she was there be support from multitude medication requests even a single pill so in the e-signature draft the mitigation request is array so it can be it is in this specification it can be the multiple mitigation requests can be is varied but if one of the mitigation Ric request in singer put is corrupted and one is normal so what should be done on these services so that is a question so what what should be done if the multiple mitigation request is in a single pair but equation so okay so before moving to the second part we will activate the questions and comments from yeah rude I mean does anyone have any specific ideas on the the answers to the questions that nobody has listed there does anyone have feelings I\u0027m sorry this is not the answer to the question just just this is my question so is this interoperability test how about the use cases defined in this group so I\u0027m not sure how many use case is tested in this axon okay thank you for question told not all of use cases are covered so it is the first interoperability thing so we just focusing on the messages on the wire itself so we checked that we can convey the information over the signal child and also we tested both and can encode other day because methods also then are we yeah we tested the most yeah fish use case of so related I have a related question so they\u0027re from what the the interim matrix "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:56",
    "text": "that look like those are all signal features did was or any of the aspects related to the data channel explored yeah uh yeah as I see fit the fast interrupted so we we we I talked with John beforehand before hackathon then time is limited so we need to concentrate on signal charlie okay then yeah so after the implementation of data charlie also after updating each other drafts sorry update of data channel of our implementation in order to support the latest data center off after that we we test with John maybe it could have it will happen before or at the next IETF awesome actually like this is really cool I have a question so we we test it now like two two-and-a-half implementations but I remember from previous discussions that were a number of other parties who might also consider implementing this so are there any people in the room or companies who would like to join this interoperability test are there any other implementations out there at this moment that we should test or that would like to provide feedback about whether the specification was clear enough because we learned from the hackathon that there was some improvements to be done yeah we hope to have some news in the near future this was a group I believe on the mic yeah any other comments that you like one in the future maybe we still have these open questions can you I assume you will post them to the mailing list okay yeah sure well that makes sense to demand lists and into github into the issue tracker okay so the next part is from ERISA laughter ah could you me sorry I\u0027m I\u0027m not sure I can okay what you did precisely okay it\u0027s French ah how as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:56",
    "text": "goes down to the I just want to say that as economy has said that in this hexam activity we have several players in this activity and how he has provided our implementation our implementation is mainly based on the current Dakotas open-source project and we added as some tossed protocol itself features such as a fickle see up update and the stadium updated six features and with Twitter internet Hestia in our company but still for some some you know some open source policy in our company we cannot bring code to come here so so that\u0027s why we through our internal tester and we have some tests to result in our slides but we I think if anyone interested we can we can show anyone yeah so the in addition to this existing protocol features we also want to one thing that we also are very interested that weather toss protocols can be extended for some renders pacifica use so we we use we use this chance to to add some more attributes to the render specific attributes of the taught seminary messages and we test two features why is the recorder the global IP reputation sharing functions so that means that if the test client can analysis the attack information and send us this Center the the identify the attack source information to the sower so this information can be intelligence share that with the other client so we extended a current because current protocol we think that is a very minimal function set so we we try to we try to test a youthful if we can be variable for more functions so that\u0027s one one thing and another thing is that we think that the us also attack mitigation is also very important so we also use extending we also test or the another feature is how to extending the currently taught protocols to to the outbound or the source muscles attack mitigation I think this this to to extended a test or past so so maybe I think if we finish you the first third stage of protocol we can consider it to how if it\u0027s possible we can do more things based on the current work so that\u0027s our main goal but as also the I think the greatest achievement for what have we that we we have to the physical protocol interoperate it a test that\u0027s a greater and greater success for this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:57",
    "text": "time yeah that\u0027s all ok perfect thanks thank you okay we\u0027d like to continue moving with the protocol discussion so next up we\u0027d like to talk about the signal and data draft med can you step into the queue so we can get you patched in Matt can you say something are made you\u0027re in the queue but we don\u0027t hear you do you help me all you hear you know okay thanks perfect we have you up in front of the signal data Channel slides okay thank you at a room until operations again for not being able to attend the decision from from the beginning so this is an update of the builded data the signal channel and the dead channel so this will reflect the main the main changes and to to show you the mention that we have done since the last last IETF meetings so next slide please so just a reminder that there is a github in which we we are maintaining the latest versions of the draft so please feel free to to fill the request there and to to add any any contribution that you would like to see and to write it in the draft the link is provided in the in this slide next slide please this is something that we we have agreed I discussed last and during the last ATF meeting and after also we agree to to use a distinct port number for the dead signal channel so we we have a digital draft to a 2.2 the new request for from a Jana and also we have a digital draft to to to use a will now in your eyes for four dots so these two updates are e are now reflected in the in the document next slide please this are two points that were discussed again in the the last safe it\u0027ve meeting and also in the mailing list the first one is to to provide a recommended value for the lifetime when there is no value and the patient ID the doctor client so the value is it to 16 minutes and there is no objection or no other proposal to to use a distinct value and the the another major modification which may have some implication on the privacy is the that we all know that aDOT\u0027s gateway to insert the client identifier in case that gateway is aggregating multiple clients so that the the dot server has information about the original clients that better to be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:57",
    "text": "serviced this information is not systematically inserted in da índia request there are some situation in which there is no value to insert it for example if the bills gateway is located in the client side and not in the window server side then we lost you and you come back into the queue please man wonderful okay your backup okay thanks this is a discussion which is weighted to equipment that Mister was placed by flaming in the last IDF meeting also which is ready to the indefinite lifetime so the outcome to discussion is that we clarified the tag that was there in the signal channel but I have also updated the requirement draft to a line document so that there is no misalignment between the the protocol specification itself and the requirement that was the origin of this text so now there is this indefinite lifetime which is supported by the client and the and the server but the client should expect that the server may reject the to assign an independent life time for a request so there are some times that was added to the drafts and also to the requirements next slide please and this is this this is the outcome of a long discussion that we we had to with regards to to sit in the the the various parameters in the inter Protocol draft and especially the interval for for the head bit when there is a problems but that are induced by the presence of firewalls and Nats and the discussion was how or which value should we recommend in D\u0026D document and the the end of the story that we we added up to what to to align ourselves to similar specifications to recommend the value which is the 30 seconds with a minimal value of 15 or 15 seconds the rationale for this kind of setting is documented in the document and we we also encouraged you use of other tools to discover the lifetime when there is a presence of the firewall and and and the net but we are not recommending any any protocol for for this kind of of solutions if you want to use a distinct value for the the interval next slide please this is this modification was to reflect the cameras from John is mainly to t distinguish between the two phases the first one when tourism there is no saturation in the link and the other one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:57",
    "text": "with the RISM I don\u0027t go in attack so this time we we have these two parameters the first one which is the interval between st. India they hurt but per request and the maximum number of herpe that we can send to that can be exchanged built between the the client and the server so if you if you send your your request up to a maximum and you rate you still equated if you don\u0027t receive any answer from the remote appear that can be adults quiet or a good server just to give it up and you you conclude that there is a problem in the connection but as we can show in the next slide when there is a separation in the link The Dude\u0027s client has to continues it maintain a decision even if it does not see any message coming from the server but the server has to if it doesn\u0027t see any indium in the traffic or in a message from the dis client has to decide that the the client the decision is is closing after an exhaustion the maximum number of hurt but sent to the server next slide please an open question that we would like to hear from the working group is because documents say that if you receive multiple requests for the same client and for the same and scope justly we we are we are deleting the lower the raucous with the lower mitigation mitigation ad we are not we are asking to working with those up if there\u0027s a problem with this with this approach or or side effect of this kind of of decisions so we would live to two to hear from you all next slide please yeah there\u0027s an open question which is currently which has been raised by Abed jon is ready to to manipulate in the the access list the first one is to allow to have multiple access lists for goods client and the the other one which is ready to this one is how we can order the access list projects client for the second one this is something which is currently not supported in the base ECL draft so this is something as we can add to to the document and we are still waiting from some feedback from the working of about the support of the multiple issues whether we can include it directly into the document or we need to discuss with the authors of the debates ECL document so if there are any feedback or comments please feel free to to share it with us excuse me man would you like to pause and maybe ask the floor whether they have any feedback on the issues you highlighted in slide 9 and 10 yes if yeah it\u0027s so what anyone does anyone have a comment on the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:58",
    "text": "questions posed by med in slide 9 and 10 related to the overlapping education numbers or related to vehicles in the ordering yeah slide 9 you sated overlapping lower number of mitigation ideas are automatically deleted what is the criteria for the automatic deletion the this was a we are using the the recent one which which was supposed to reflect the refresh situation that means that\u0027s the latest with requests is supposed to to reflect the up to date situation from the desk clients domain itself that was I wrote the rationale for that but we may this may have problems in case there\u0027s multiple list clients and each of them we have a distinct view on the situation on the on the network so that\u0027s why we are raising the question and we would like to hear from you and from the others if this kind of rationale is not is not it\u0027s not appropriate or has some side effects I promoted deletion I think we need to discuss this and more and if there is a certainty question with lower lower ID it should be considered okay so we have Fleming and then we have rollin in the queue and yeah yes I\u0027m going so one question for clarification and maybe you use the answer this but does this apply between requests from different dots clients potentially this is not just on a per dots client basis it\u0027s it\u0027s supported in domain not for that\u0027s client business yeah that then and I guess I am concerned yeah because you are beginning to assume that there is some level of coordination between those dots clients and I don\u0027t know necessarily how they would do that it\u0027s certainly not something that we\u0027ve specified so there would be side effects potentially of doing this so yes I I have concerns but I don\u0027t have a good answer either right now okay I meant I\u0027ll move to Roland and then please you will reenter the queue so you can continue rare press yeah I have an overall concern to early with regards to Ackles I\u0027m not really certain that dots should be flinging Ackles back and forth because apples are very specific to the particular router platform card east it and then the match capabilities flows back you know supports Apple type policies and so I think that we need to take a step back here and see should we be trying to do those effects job here um you know it\u0027s an open question I think to bias gone "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:03",
    "text": "wrong huawei working group chair head off I have two points so I would also have some concerns if this is per domain if you overwrite basically the lower mitigation IDs and I have a question to something you said like several pages before where you specify the mitigation lifetime default value to be sixty minutes I\u0027m actually wondering do we even need to specify that or should we maybe better not specify that in the draft because like denial of service attack scenarios are evolving quite quickly and there may be choices by vendors to be made about different mitigation default lifetimes so maybe we shouldn\u0027t set one especially also in the context of if you set it to zero then it means default lifetime so so like there are questions like why why do we have that and maybe I\u0027m just not getting it just to us I don\u0027t know if you are you\u0027re hearing me yup yeah okay so yeah just transfer the last the last question about the you recommended value this is just a recommended values so implementers can use other values if the if it is appropriate and also the do provider for operators who are using the dot servers and also the error correcting codes clients or managing the dots clients can set it to a district value we are just recommending that value so that we there is there is some some guidance for for the implementers to - because if you process you city to a lower value you will you may have some other side effects that the the mitigation request is not maintained as long as required to further this kind and so on so this is something that we have asked to the list and there is no objective so far for this value so if you think that there is there\u0027s a problem please you raise the question in the malleus so that we kind of discuss it with there okay the next is john hi can you hear me yes and met please reenter the queue so you can later continue okay so basically duplication I was the mitigation ID where you 90 per dot client-server and it wasn\u0027t across the whole of the main engine I have particular session and it was left if there was an overlap in the fifth on that oh so I think from all using with the ACL if we are going to drop a shield then we are throwing away half of the data channel specification okay so thank "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:09",
    "text": "you the yeah this is to be asked on room huawei non working group chair just one clarification I didn\u0027t want to say to remove like I think the 60 minute makes sense just the like if you say this is a recommended that\u0027s fine declaring it as a default value in a specification then that would suggest something like you should use that value and that\u0027s where I was concerned I\u0027m fully with you to say we recommend this value and that\u0027s okay okay it\u0027s more like fine tuning of our C language should must and bother the floor is yours again met okay so you can display the next slide please Roman yeah the next slide this is something which is open and is there since the many ATF meetings I would like to know what to do with the material authentication should we and should should we recommend and a solution so that the Dutch client at the Dutch server can mutually authenticate themselves there are various options there that we are listed in the in the in the in this slide and also the next one and we would like to know what you do with those should we assume a particular solution to be to be specified or we we can leave a t2 to the implementers so that you can decide which what is the better option for them to do to achieve the material integration between the dot server and the dis client knowing that there may be some interpretive problems if we leave it open so I won\u0027t go into all the options we have we have so far so the most important for us is to know what the world working group want us to do with regard to this to this to this to this point any feedback from the working group on that question like as a working group chair I\u0027m a little bit surprised that there is no strong debate about this like I mean mutual authentication sounds to me like a major question whether you need this or not so know that that\u0027s what the question is the question is not whether we want or we don\u0027t want the visualized indication is how we will achieve the authentication materials interrogation is a mass for the protocol and this is something that is clearly called out in the requirement document and we would like to adhere to that to that requirement this is really important that there is that\u0027s should we should be supported by those clients and the question is how we will achieve that and for us and especially about the the provisioning problem without the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:09",
    "text": "certificates and so on should we allow something that can be directly provision to the clients and there is no coordination or no automatic way to to to to to get the certificates on this kind of problems that are more I would say operational aspects okay Thomas coots HT consulting and certificates can you please explain why you\u0027re limiting our certificate method to to using est I mean it\u0027s it when I read it it seems like it this is a this is only use est and not any of the other ways to acquire certificates know that that\u0027s not that\u0027s not the point it this that is trying to to reflect the point is that this is one candidate that will that that we are we are seeing there if you want to do something which is automatic about the enrolment and so on this kind of stuff but if there are other the other alternates or other solutions to do that so please feel free to share it with us and the that\u0027s that\u0027s one point the other one is whether we should specify a mandatory to support option in into the document and we are we are open to that and we would like to hear from the working group how should we talk about this in the in the document this is this is this is our main concern not and not the the dissolutions themselves but how to do that and how to proceed with this kind of in editorial aspect to reflect what we at this client at what at the server Massey support with regard to be to the applications and how the the required security credential our provision to reduce client and for to the servers that we can achieve Demeter authentication which is imposed and required and we would like to see it supported by the protocols I\u0027ll look at the text again see if I come some wording to make it that est is a a recommended way and there are others you know one others work being done an animal brueski might evolve as another potential method for the certificates there\u0027s a lot of T V DS there but est can well be called out as a no here\u0027s something which works or can be made to work and to be use accordingly so let me again look at your text there yeah just this once I\u0027m coming about the anime solution this is something that we we have the pointed to in the discovery in the dots server discovery solution so this is something out we are also following yes thank you for the comment ensure before we go on from if you go back to slide 11 I mean the other meta question for the working group to decide is how many methods should be mandatory to implement and how would we handle the optionality unfortunately I think those three are mandatory you can\u0027t make it any one of any one or even two of those three I were kind of stuck for lots of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:11",
    "text": "reasons you know in some pre shared key some certificate and and the raw public key which is use out in those cases so those are the three which are so now well entrenched in in IETF work that those are three which do and again and having one certificate method like est is a good way to go and then leave it open for others to maybe evolve others as it goes so no more than those three and I don\u0027t think you drop any of them one question from Fleming and then I suggest your procedure yeah maybe this is an offline discussion Fleming and Reyes maybe it is really a question for Bob why do we need all three and do we need all three on both the client and server-side mascots Fleming excellent question and this is the server-side answer authoring the server client can choose which poison works best for it because definitely the whole thing about raw public keys there are clients which can\u0027t do anything but that kind of a solution so this is server mom shut up no must do all three clients select one okay and the queue just dissolved which means the answer was sufficient so please met proceed like what slight wealth yeah I think this one is ready to to the previous points so we can just move on and to to the next slide yeah that\u0027s that last slide so if there are any missing issue that we are we we didn\u0027t covered so far the floor is yours one practical question have you taken a look at the goats specific implementation because to some degree this should relate to your spec this is a question to you man oh yeah so we have we have already a section in the end in the protocol specification document that documents the the current go that\u0027s implementation yes so we are following that yeah but I I need to to read and to refresh my mind about the latest issue that was found during the hackathon so that we can align the specification and decide if there is any fix that need to be added to the specification documents yeah sure this was only two days ago so no worries okay shall we proceed okay let\u0027s go multi-homing so you stay on and let me "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:11",
    "text": "bring up your slide sorry here we are okay so we continue with humid please continue for multihoming yeah so this will be an update of the multicam in the discussion this is won\u0027t to be about sorry about the content of the documents themselves but about the logistics how we can cover the mr. Helme in consideration in the in the current that some documents so please next slide this is this is the homework ahead from from Prague is due to check how we can cover the discussion about the mr. Hammond in the existing documents so mainly to check with order there are modifications that are required to build the the requirement and also the architecture document next slide please so I started with the the dots requirement so there is a some discussion on the mailing list and also I have proposed text to a to Andrew to for to cover which to cover for me what what AAC has the main requirements there is that the the clients must be able to comment in multiple sessions and to to appropriately select the appropriate server when you have two to two plus a request so this is this requirement text is really brief at concise we don\u0027t want to go into specificity of the mr. Hartmann to not overload the the dots requirement document itself so decide this text was published in the recent version of the requirement the documents so many thanks to ask you Andrew next slide please the next document is the dots architecture for this one yes there are some discussion about the mr. Holman but the discussion is really at a high level which is which I see as a good points and even the documents mentioned that there are some extra care and planning to be done by the dots clients in mr. Herman situation so the the card disk text and the current discussion that we have in the the individual document we described meant a human is really something which is zooming on this part so that to to provide some guidance to implementers and to to operate or how he can operate the the its clients in multihoming situations so this are from your complimentary discussions do you count one which is which I see as a sufficient for a an architectural document which is already there and do the other one which is in the in the individual document next slide please for the dots signal and the that\u0027s channel specification protocols this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:11",
    "text": "clear there is no requirements on the on the on the protocols themselves there is no modifications that we are required to do to the protocols themselves so we are just using the that\u0027s signal and data channels as they are but it\u0027s the problem is mainly on the behavior on the desk ages themselves and not the protocols we are using to establish the communication and to place the request by the dursa client to a remote that server so this is a new text that was added to individual document to clearly call out this point to say that there is no implications on the protocol specification as themselves next slide please so here we are so there are some modification that have been proposed to the requirement document there is something which is still missing to address the practicalities and all the the issues that are related to a rational aspect of the mr. Harmon so there are two approaches there the first one is to go with updating the architecture the current architecture document and there is already a proposal to in that in the direction to add the mr. Harmon discussion not in the core part of the document but but as an appendix so that we can provide some operational guidance and the to to implementers or the other one which is to consider a subsidy the current individual document as a standalone document so that you can have one single document in which we we are discussing all the specificity of the of the mr. Harmon so um I do personally prefer the second plant which is because this is really focused but I\u0027m open to to any direction from the working group we have built the Orochi she\u0027s already said to what we in drew since one month and the other one which is dis Sunderland okay but and this is the end of my presentation okay we have Roland coming to the mic hi there rola network so um I think I had mentioned this previously in other meetings we have considerable operational experience with protocols that are similar to what dots are going to do and we don\u0027t run into any you know glitches or gotchas related to multihoming I think the care path that was on slide 3 is good and it\u0027s something that we should you know consider in yeah this paragraph right here but this is only all that we need to be said we don\u0027t need to get into the all the detail that\u0027s in this particular proposed graph because it was more or less tcp/ip 101 and I don\u0027t think that we need to to get to that level of detail personally Fleming Fleming underrated please rejoin the queue speaking as one of the authors "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:11",
    "text": "of the architecture draft I would say I\u0027m not in favor of adding this as an appendix I think we have per the previous discussion on the architecture draft I think we have sufficient treatment of multihoming in the architecture draft itself so yeah I would I would not vote for option one there excuse me Fleming sorry working of chair just for clarification so you say you would not go for an appendix that\u0027s correct would you so would you then say we should go for a separate document or are you saying actually it\u0027s not needed I didn\u0027t say anything there may be a question from working with chair perspective who has read the latest multihoming draft could you do a show of hands oh wow this is like okay one person okay so that\u0027s yeah that\u0027s a bit basically yeah that\u0027s not yep I\u0027m sorry God so mad in the room if it\u0027s not clear that it would appear that only two folks have reviewed this latest draft so it\u0027s looking like we don\u0027t have enough readers to know what to do sorry one more one more question for me I mean we had this discussion indeed at ITF 99 and at least at that point in time I had the impression we did not have enough information for multihoming so I just hear now there\u0027s sufficient information the architecture draft as is so has just been improved has this used some of that component or like it\u0027s the statement like actually we were wrong at 99 and like it was already good enough so Fleming Andreasen again speaking as one of the authors at least at the architecture draft when we did the intern review of the architecture draft not specifically a multihoming in there I felt that the treatment that we had in there was sufficient I looked at the multihoming draft as well I\u0027m not sure if it was updated subsequently but but I didn\u0027t see things that I thought were necessary for the architecture draft itself at least I names a question of I mean how many of these deployment consideration documents do we want should we focus our energy more on the protocols at this point maybe this is something that we defer a decision on and you know we can see if there are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:11",
    "text": "impacts on some of the protocol shafts I think Matt has indicated that so far at least he hasn\u0027t seen an impact on the protocol drafts so I I don\u0027t know how much of a need there is but but I would prefer to see the group investing energy again in the protocol drafts at this point and moving on to Roland yeah I want a second our Criminal Code and the question about what we were thinking at IETF nt9 we really have all the iterations that we need already this paragraph here this last slide 3 suffice is and I really don\u0027t think that lead to spend a lot of time than original movie chord okay I mean feedback taken so far yeah okay so my co-chair just said we should take it back to the list at this stage it\u0027s like yeah one thing that perhaps my my help kind of clarify things I think we\u0027re talking we\u0027re tossing around different terms here got it so slide six speaks to how this draft is going to complement the dots architecture but we\u0027re also talking about deployment considerations so are those the same thing med no they are two distinct levels of the of the same problem that is that once you have the protocols and what you you have the your agents there there are some another dimension in which that which is really key for the operation of your mitigation problem is that how your data client is talking with the to the appropriate server and how do those clients are sending the appropriate information to the appropriate servers and all these kind of information is they are they are not currently specifically specified in the architecture for instance if you have just a simple multi hung situation if you are talking to the wrong good server your the problem won\u0027t be solved so there are some and other considerations that need to be documented somewhere perhaps for some this is obvious but they don\u0027t take so because there are many problems and merely considerations there that should to be documented clearly I do think that there is something which is missing this is fully agree with flame it is that this is are not the same level of the of the discussion next one is Rowland and then blending yeah I disagree I I just this is such a basic issue that I think there\u0027s a lot of heat and why around us that that that III don\u0027t understand why this is considered to be such a complex "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:12",
    "text": "issue that requires you know specific documentation beyond the paragraph on slide three I just don\u0027t understand it I haven\u0027t heard the case made specifically here I don\u0027t I I read the document and it just doesn\u0027t make sense to me cuz I\u0027m sorry maybe just my failure to comprehend Fleming Fleming there\u0027s no I mean I agree with Matt that it goes beyond deployment consideration right there is an implementation aspect to it as well but I think that\u0027s it right I mean again I don\u0027t see protocol impacts right here right now and and again I would prefer that we focus our energy on you know providing the deliverables that that are there if I mean I\u0027m finally trying to progress this in in parallel right and see where that goes but again I think we should focus our energy on the deliverables that we have in place right now they\u0027re devices coming up to the mic make your first yeah so just what clarification to to the comment Midway Roland the the requirement does only say what is required by the dist clients to achieve and we need to understand how the Dutch client has to as she to ship this kind of requirements and this is typically the answer that is provided in the emitter Hammond document so in Rome while we were king of jihad off if it has no impact on the protocol specification then I think we really need to think carefully where to put like whether this is like what what is the impact of this I have seen in other working groups discussions about deployment advisory something like that but then I would question whether why this is like if we if you would go down this way then the question would be why just for multihoming is this a such singular problem that we should do just as pfizer e for that or not yeah so I\u0027m torn between these things med do you want to respond to Tobias and then role and will be oh no no I don\u0027t have any particular comment to this one no Roland Europe by Roland ovens over networks um since med is intending this more I think in the flavor of deployment guidance we would be it would be very easy for us to add this to one of the these considerations that he\u0027s thinking about in one of the existing news cases "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:13",
    "text": "that has a multihomed type of scenario we could simply work with med to get some verbiage from him to stick into the use cases drafter that would help uh if I may waha why jump into the queue I do not think we should add this to the use cases draft I mean if this is later about advice for the deployment I really think we should get the whose case is draft through the door and into working group last call and if we need to provide later some guidance on deployment then this shouldn\u0027t be in the use cases draft my personal opinion made back to you yeah actually there there are two two aspects in the meta Harmon specification individual document there are already a discussion on the use cases themselves and the discussion about the deployment considerations I would personally agree with the with Roland that there is already one section in the u.s. case the working group adopted use cases document which is described in one Milty home in the use case but this one is yeah one option is that we can complete this dis section with with with materials coming from the the individual document and to leave the considerations out in out from the US case this is this is one option Roland and I am as far as we are documenting the the problem and as far as we are documenting the what is the deployment that are likely to happen as a use case it is fine by me okay maybe as a working group chair I think we don\u0027t have many people who read the draft in fact we have only very few so I\u0027m I don\u0027t dare to ask for anything consensus oriented in this direction at this moment my proposal would be to put this back to the mailing list to discuss there if you see a strong need to also raise gaps if you see them in the architecture draft so we had the comment that from the authors of the architecture draft that actually they feel it\u0027s sufficient if you have specific points that you see that are not covered then please raise them on the list so we can illustrate that and discuss about them this is how far I\u0027m going at the moment like I\u0027m not sure Roman do you have any yeah I mean the next question Radisson soap you have read it will are people committed to reading that and we can let folks read it and then perhaps we can facilitate something on the mailing list and pick this up again at the Internet or a meeting that we\u0027re half before I get together again to help kind of facilitate our options "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:15",
    "text": "so my first kind of question is our folks committed to reading the draft so there\u0027s a larger pool of folks that can give us input so I see one two three four okay so I see at least got a four folks five sorry so I think we\u0027ll be a little better informed when there are more readers so man I don\u0027t want to leave this unresolved but we\u0027re gonna take this to the man list to buy so that I will facilitate minimally we\u0027ll get we\u0027ll get this teed up for for some class I\u0027ve got a resolution about next steps after we\u0027ve got more readers at the intro meeting okay thanks thank you and the next one is the server discovery you\u0027re still on that gets the word for caching caching the delivery of a lot of drafts thank you for that yes so the this presentation would just summarize what had happened since the last eight if anything about the the server discovery point that we discussed in the in the Prague meeting and also in the ending maladies so next slide please so this is just hear the story about the motivation for this document why we need to have a solution to to discover the and to provision the the dot servers to to these clients currently build your requirement and the protocol specification and also the architecture the comments say that the there are some magic way that can be manual or dynamic so that the the dead servers are horizontal to this clients so we are just here in this document we are providing some dynamic means to discover or the this information so that the there will be communication between those agents themselves next slide please so in the during the last ATF meeting there will there was one command I say that we we have much more options there in the document and we would like to shorten that that deftly so what we did is that we read back to to the mailing list and we asked people if the if there are if they have opinions how to shorten that list and if the there are some options that we can we can remove from the draft but what happened is that the the discussions confirmed the current day approach in the draft and that is that when single-disc Arabic it is unlikely because of the the heterogeneous aspect of the various dots clients that may be may be solicited so there is a people ask in even asking for more solutions to to be a to be a to be at least first there was the discussion "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:17",
    "text": "about add Indian a discovery solution using the Roughriders Desmond which is something which is broken so we just abandon to to add it to the list and you maintain DD current history we have so far in the document but there is one key command that was raised by a brass which which is for me a fair comment are the important to discuss by the working group is that we need to cover both devices with numerous allusions capabilities and devices that are not that are able to solicit an underlying name resolution library so in next slide please so the outcome of the discussion we have and the commands the detailed comments from Russia\u0027s that we we have listed the documents so that he now a dude\u0027s client may be provisioned with a list of IP addresses and a list of IP addresses together with our reference into the fire that can be used for authentication purposes or it can configure with with with with a name the name when the name is provisioned to this client the name will be used for two purposes the first one is g2 to resolve it into a list of IP addresses that will be used to to reach the server itself but it will be also used as an authentication reference identifier for applique X for instance of the authentications but when there is a both/and name and an IP addresses the name will be all only used for authentication purposes and the IP addresses for reaching the the server itself but when there is only an IP address which which is configured to to to this client we have this open question is with all the certificates that are based on the the the sole IP address itself so if we go back to our 361 to 2025 it told us that there is there are very few certificates to authorities that are issuing certificates both based on IP address so this was the main motivation why we discarded - to include the IP addresses in the first version of the specification but the argument for for us is that if someone wants to deploy that using the IP address as a an entry fortification it can do so so we don\u0027t need to there is no he don\u0027t think that there is a valid arguments that we we can forbid this kind of deployment option so that\u0027s why we added up to 212 low and this multiple option that that is that you can provision IP addresses you can provision names and you can provision our refers identifier to get work with our with a list of IP addresses next slide please so this this is the updated behavior of the of the the discovery solution so that there are so far the four alternate "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:18",
    "text": "solutions to to discover the the servers so you have the the explicit configuration that can be local or can be automatic using DHCP and so on we have the service resolution we have the SD and we have the unicast and the the the context and the as per the outcome the discussion we had on the manual I see that at least the dots client must at least support one of this of the of this of these mechanisms and we we also add this the this world in to say that it should support all all of them and we also indicated forum for determinism perspective that there there will be an order preference so if a dude\u0027s client is supporting many of this of this of this mechanism it has to follow the the professional order which is which is indicated in the document so this is the decay contribution from from from the document which is basically the before mechanism as we have we have in the previous version but we just added a further clarifications about the nature of the information that can be provisioned with this can be an IP address a name or a combination order of yes Tobias as we met there you can see yes wonderful just just a quick comment to be asked on Rome are we working ok how head off um i i roughly agree with the language terminology i think you should you should use should in non-capital terms not RC 2119 because otherwise you would have to explain i think it would be too strong if you if you use it in 2119 terms so my recommendation were to do the shoot in small salami Andreas whenever I see four different choices and the aim is to have interoperable implementations ie start scratching my head I get the fact that there is at least two different scenarios that we\u0027re trying to cover right one of which is going through a gateway and the other one is going direct I don\u0027t see why we need four different options for that though lemon please help us to her to to shorten the list that will be also it would be happy also to have a shortened list please help us Kathleen Moriarty so just a clarifying question on that is one MTI okay that way we have one implemented it doesn\u0027t specify which gets used let me enjoy yes I mean maybe the service discovery authors aren\u0027t in a better position to answer that I\u0027m not sure because again they are two to two different scenarios the thing that they\u0027re trying to cover um I think we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:19",
    "text": "have to look more closely at that but as a starting point here probably then you can say maybe not every single scenario supported right in basic mandatory to implement to be asked on huawei non working group chair and function actually I think case number one is no discovery it\u0027s local local configuration there\u0027s this is not a discovery there\u0027s no protocol in this so like in this way for is like overstating it number one is basically zero I guess you are you\u0027re thinking about the the local configuration because in the in the first step there is the explicit configuration that can be done by automation you there are some extensions or protocols for instance DHCP that are defined there okay we\u0027re gonna Rolland in the queue sorry Roland heavens Arbor networks I want to point out a couple of things that we anticipate that the majority of dice implementations for quite some time are going to be basically point one explicit configuration done either manually or via some local automatic configuration mechanism service discovery and all this stuff is really nice but I think we\u0027re really getting ahead of ourselves and I also want to point out that we\u0027re that anything it relies on DNS under the asset pack conditions is unwise man if you want to comment can you get back in the queue Tobias yeah quick comment also just as normal participant I think this discovery is in as I understood it in most cases not under tech conditions this is in peacetime yeah you actually end up at in many cases where those who wish to have DDoS mitigation services are not pre-positioned and so they call screaming at or am you know on a Sunday saying help help I need you know DDoS mitigation services and you know you want to be able to use dots if you can and so that\u0027s what I\u0027m trying to say that we we want to make sure that certainly point one subheading one and two are supported the service discovery stuff again I just really think we\u0027re getting ahead of ourselves here in and that we want to make sure that it\u0027s well understood by implementers and by operators that that reliance upon DNS you know when attack indifference we\u0027re taking place can\u0027t be taken for granted that\u0027s all I\u0027m trying to get at Med Europe yeah I think this is this is a comment from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:19",
    "text": "from from Roland I understand that he the the reliance on DNS may be problematic but as mentioned by Tobias the the discovery is happening during this time and not during your attacks but anyway we disagree that the discussion that I would like to to have together or to continue so that we can shorten the list which is really a key for our interoperability yeah I think we all agree on number one and so I\u0027ve had one and two the the additional discussion needs to center around the other things but certainly point one is a given man could you please come back so we can continue okay so unless there\u0027s a further comment the deputy behavior I think that the next slide is just asking for the feedback from the working group on how to proceed on the specification further comments to be asked on Renoir a non working group chair comment actually I think it\u0027s good I like that we have a discovery mode I think that can be useful I can foresee that these are topologies are not they may grow faster than we anticipate maybe at this moment so a discovery mechanism sounds good for me so I mean there is yeah I I largely agree with that as well I mean anything that goes above and beyond pure manual configuration especially in this day and age right obviously you want something like that not walking in the mic hat off plus one as well I mean having something I think would be really helpful I think we get arm-wrestle over exactly what\u0027s what\u0027s kind of MTI and how many approaches we need okay so let\u0027s be transparent the chairs had just a quick exchange of thoughts like when and how should we proceed with this draft current perception is not so many people have read it so ideally we would have wanted maybe to ask for adoption at this point but I\u0027m not sure whether this is suitable because we haven\u0027t maybe I should ask actually first ask question who has read the document one two okay so that\u0027s definitely not enough who wants to read "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:22",
    "text": "the document one two three four five well okay a little bit that\u0027s not tremendous amount should we ask for I mean why don\u0027t we drum up some interest on the mailing list that\u0027s it to that to ask some folks to read it again the turnout isn\u0027t so great in the room and then we can decide where to go from here because I\u0027m here positive things we you know with certainly with caveats I agree let\u0027s that\u0027s what this for the review and then we will raise this question at the interim okay made any closing thoughts no thank you thank you so with the time we have available there\u0027s a little bit of slack here for open mic if anyone wants to come up and talk about anything related to the working group so to be asked on rumba a non working group chair there\u0027s one thing that\u0027s kind of a little bit bothering me is we\u0027ve been working on this now for like one and a half years we had a number of draft specification work we have yayyyyy we have the first implementation with code ox which is really really great but what\u0027s bothering me is that I don\u0027t see many commercial implementations and it\u0027s like kind of like why is that I don\u0027t fully get this like by now actually like commercial implementers should have caught up with the flow and like at the beginning we had at the beginning when this working group was founded we had this talking eye this is really important we need to do this this is so important but then yeah we I don\u0027t see these implementations happening so are they secret and I\u0027m just like invisible hiding somewhere to raise the moment this is all going to rc are we too fast are we like off-track are we not getting this is there any feedback from you guys that I\u0027m missing the point is that also this is Kathleen is it also possible that there are implementations that we\u0027re just not aware of maybe you know are people implementing that they haven\u0027t disclosed that in their free to disclose that well I\u0027m asking if maybe they can\u0027t maybe they\u0027re ready to disclose it now but they hadn\u0027t just you know throwing that out there Roland "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:22",
    "text": "you\u0027re up at the mile one thing that I just noticed in general is that vendors often like looking back until standards were adopted they themselves invest the time to do a shin and obviously the implementations that have been done so far very helpfully a lot of useful information that is that we take in as input into the architecture in the protocols grass and we want to see more but I think that that\u0027s one reason internally speaking is that vendors are often hesitant to to do pre standard implementations I don\u0027t know what that is it\u0027s just a guess so did anyone understand that and could they relay what he said cuz I\u0027m sorry Roland I couldn\u0027t make out half the words maybe you could type it in Jack for us would you mind I typed it in the chat can you hear me now now I can even you bet that aren\u0027t you a lot of vendors unfortunately like to hang back until standards or are actually standardized and so I think that that\u0027s part of the problem here is that we\u0027re in a situation where you know we still aren\u0027t finished yet we\u0027ve gotten some great feedback from the lessons learned from the implementations we\u0027ve seen so far but I think a lot of vendors just like to kind of sit on their hands and wait until something has been standardized before they they they actually the minute maybe I\u0027m wrong it\u0027s just against okay so you said from the vendors who have implemented so far can you share who they are or how now when I said I was referring to the implementation that were discussed earlier in in in this session ah so you\u0027re talking about hackathon when you said that I apologize for being in here okay and well just a RFI - so what - pajas this point there are many other working groups where they don\u0027t wait like TLS for instance they they\u0027ve been hammering at code and security design problems for a long time and it\u0027s held up publication as a result but that\u0027s a good thing because they\u0027re correcting problems found and so that that life cycle is so helpful so Tobias gone wrong Huawei non-working room chair comment so don\u0027t get me wrong uh at least for for my company we intend to implement this and you\u0027ve seen that like Frank joined this in the hanging on I just feel like a little bit lonely like with entity and NCC and then voila is like I didn\u0027t expect us to be among the first adopters I rather expected there\u0027s like all these other vendors who are so eager and that maybe we would be slower "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:24",
    "text": "so if there may be to your point rollin if there is like in your mind a list of vendors who are maybe not aware of this or if you have some suggestions like the Roman and me we can also go to them as the chair and like say hey are you aware of this are you interested can we help you in any way because I\u0027m just confused at the moment why why it\u0027s not so many i well we have we have some good under representation in the working group I can\u0027t answer for why we aren\u0027t seeing more implementations from the vendors who are actually participating in the working group I\u0027m not in a position to answer that question I think a lot of the main vendors who need to know about this of our engagement aware there\u0027s always room for more but you know if we look at the vendors that are involved we have a pretty pretty strong roster so I don\u0027t know think that awareness is necessarily the problem okay at least that\u0027s of my personal question any other questions and I\u0027m sorry for like hijacking the last five minutes good so then let me just resume that one little piece if you are aware of people who you think should be interested in this and maybe they are not aware of this please feel free to come to Roman myself anytime we can like help how we can bring them in or or like share information and so on because I think now we are really getting into the face where this needs to be like code on the on the road and with this I hand back to Roman for I think some closing comments Kathleen did you want to say something I\u0027m wrapping up milestones so different okay so I just want to run through the list of these to see how many of the foundational documents can you kick over really soon so that they\u0027re out of the way we had was that in two weeks we\u0027re gonna go work group last call for requirements the feeling is that given the state of the architecture document we still need about a month worth of work before we can go west call alright so that\u0027ll be a Christmas present realistically it\u0027s early January ok so I enjoy Christmas okay correct yeah and then the use case documents I think we got to talk a little bit because the document is not ready for work last call okay all right great I think that\u0027ll help to get those moved and we milestone lives of course are not going to meet the December target of both signal and data channel and so we should come up with a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:25",
    "text": "realistic date for that we\u0027ll probably discuss that a lot more at the intermediate okay so that\u0027s administrative lay all I have advise to you maybe one comment as a person comment from a cheer perspective I could imagine us pull the trigger on working group last call even if a document is only in let\u0027s say close to but not fully finished yet state and that may be something for you the ad to to raise your hand and say don\u0027t do that but I actually see us doing that so we can wrap this up faster like not wait for until it\u0027s completely finished and I see you nodding so I take that okay we pull B that is indeed what when we discussed in like when we propose that we will trigger and accelerate this and like push this car even though not all riders are on the on their seats right right so once you go through working group last call whoever shepherding it will assess the state of debates and then when I do my review after that I will look for glaring issues that might get picked up in the iesg to avoid than having it picked up that late so yeah so if you find anything full addressed and maybe a second comment I like to encourage for the architecture to actually go pre-christmas because ideally we should try to move this draft while our current ad is still our ad and that might help things in the iesg process yeah yeah so if I had it before Christmas then I could get it on at Ellicott right after Christmas and you guys could work diligently on every comment and discuss receive to resolve them and post a version so that I can click my sends button on an approved message that would be great yeah I do think the reason I think we could probably get that done okay and I would just ask the editors to be really expedient in responses to to updates or questions and comments so we\u0027ll move with that end of your optimism that\u0027s great okay and thank you I think that brings us to a close thank you everyone for participating to the remote presenters thank you so much for your flexibility and your participation I\u0027m sure the time zone stuff was not exactly right for you okay bye-bye "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:38",
    "text": "you "
  }
]