[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:22",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] all right we\u0027re gonna get started welcome to the working group this is the first meeting of the week and so we want to call special attention to the note well we\u0027ll leave this on the screen for a minute or so here make sure that you read the note well it covers all the meetings during the week as part of the IETF I kept out of here actually how many people is this their very first teeth meeting your hand the very first one excellent thank you welcome we\u0027re glad you\u0027re here thank you for coming all right for note takers I believe we have one note-taker right now Thank You Ned Smith it would be helpful to have a second note-taker as it back up we keep notes in the ether pad which is the bottom link there you should be aware of and if you go to the I you just learned this the IETF agenda page has a link that takes you to notes that when generated a different link than this one so we\u0027re using the one that\u0027s on this slide I make sure you use this one when is there a person that\u0027d be willing to be a backup note-taker for us it was the charitable watch anything we do have Medeco we will be watching the jeffer and I think we have somebody else watching Jeff are too okay is there anybody else who wants to watch ever we didn\u0027t have a screen okay I think you been okay great alright here\u0027s our agenda for today and I will mention in case you didn\u0027t get the notice it\u0027s been widely broadcast our Friday session is moved to tomorrow morning hey that means we have plenty of time and so today our focus is on the architecture document issues and these are just guesses on the time here the time is flexible and that if we run long that\u0027s perfectly fine we have the time and the item number for the transport discussion will move to tomorrow if we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:22",
    "text": "need more time for architecture discussion today this is our current agenda for today this is the agenda for tomorrow morning same time we\u0027re in a different room at same time tomorrow and so tomorrow we get into protocol and the starting at 11:00 a.m. tomorrow we will have the discussion about attestation and the relationship with the rats working group okay there are some rats participants that we want to be in that discussion and they have a conflict during the first hour and so all the attestation stuff will start at 11:00 and so as you\u0027ll see right now we are all puns are just estimates but you\u0027ll see before 11:00 those don\u0027t add up to an hour right which is why the transport destruction overflowing to tomorrow is perfectly fine if we do that right we will be able to have time for non Advent station related stuff during the first hour tomorrow and I\u0027ve had station during the second hour tomorrow okay any agenda bashing any comments on the agenda before we actually begin their agenda here\u0027s our agenda for today just look good okay then with that we are going to go to our first presentation which either yeah the same engine our cameras pointing so let\u0027s move to the architecture slides okay looks well here\u0027s a my agenda I would talk good to talk about that - eros once I have an update always that go over the issues summer issue will have a result but I\u0027m not update document that our ghosts I game I didn\u0027t try again okay I looked at how stock map dead we have a brief document update of three change you know from table to 2003 meet you I\u0027m still the me John it\u0027s a secret domain is removed from document as it\u0027s not dependents anymore so you know this has been a important topic has been discussing last several working group and last few month and I will have intermittent and from less ITF would have a resolution and a we get agreement so we removed actually place dependency secondly we had tip agent in T as an entity model its insight II there was some terminology collective occasion what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:22",
    "text": "means agent what it means broker and so on so that tip a dad I have a some more slide won\u0027t slide each for each of his changes briefly summer there and T broker and tip agent and agent was more aligned I clarified in a document update in addition to this changes we had a interim meeting in May 17th and no ideas also have a working session so we worked blocked in that day and we work through several important topics now it has some update on that next No so here quick glimpse of the issues totally current listed sixty-four issues for architecture before IETF 104 we closed Italian issues resolved and in last three month we we closer to four and this is three are ready to be closed which as a after review here what you could have closed it ever consider there\u0027s no more issue and then they have this is the other issues this blank phone is something I will go through have some updates these are other issues are we\u0027re continuing to work on someone we have not made update or have not discussed much but like this one so editorial changes this should be not I complicate the the complex ones or major ones would briefly touch on bound today and we give some discussion I like to get a feedback also that\u0027s a man in Asia so next I\u0027ll could to throw this one for the interim interim meeting and a working session update we hosted this in May 17th at a somatic office we have which a medium part an hour they have a working session by a teacher and the chairs First Avenue Nestle are there issues with discussed and there was some solution proposed for the issues or problems there\u0027s a list here relate to architecture there\u0027s some also our product discussion to not lives here but it is more ready to architecture first when we talk about secret domain what follows that do we remove us to wait more need more feedback so it discover secret domain tea page ancient architecture terminology alignment this was not email straight actually after the working session formula the working staging was okay not what we call it we mainly spend time whiteboard in the end "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:22",
    "text": "to in the flow then look at where\u0027s a protocol gap with octet gap what the interactions would to have complete coverage also face-to-face brainstorming so what\u0027s the API we should put there and adversely we\u0027re actually quite a useful exercise we discuss this ta distribution pipeline app remember earlier we have a issue set thi PT tribute part-time or by client app but when the client app hard it should be done and we want afford it and have a worker flow I will talk about here attitude it\u0027s a good example which illustrates the interaction support components we also discuss a topic about the end-to-end security between sever provide MTE being a service provider went deliver some trust application or special IP protected awkward zone to in Tierra is there\u0027s a private concern is there are P disclosure course on how to address that so I heard some slide on that one the next I could so this topic first thank you sorry issues issues first one this one says I mean Fe the people in particular for first time come here early draft has been assuming there is a secret domain for trust application you install SAS application into a trust only into a secure domain that was the inheritor form global platform concept I have secured Thomas partly ASIC element but when a pro to prote easy now say is secret or may require and Hannah said earlier this issue\u0027s that what\u0027s action meaning that what a secret to me used for its oscillation scheme it\u0027s a it\u0027s a management scheme or its user for provisioning so what\u0027s the purpose but it will have as GX and different teas is that required is that necessary so the consists of feedback combines and no adronis we\u0027re gonna see it has to be a requirement for trust application in broad t different T kinds so what we decided was said tip doesn\u0027t need to expose secret domain api\u0027s anymore so set aside we just have a trust application management however however we\u0027ll leave that to implementation so if a t like a logo for TZ want to use such secret domain on the coverage fine they can implement T per protocol and ta management API like it you start here on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:22",
    "text": "account they can assign implicit secret to me identify whatever they decide but for protocol level we would not interpret it would not assume there\u0027s such thing right it\u0027s a implement dependent but for other T\u0027s and never have concept it continually just mad it here yeah so that\u0027s an important decision I think this will be one of the major decision in architectural I will our concealer because avert pick a change alright big change we removed half of ap ice for the coffee Kyle and also remove a lot of key management I\u0027d never say early there was a model Ultherapy management that was it now you have a key social security oh man secret no me sheriff ISP owned by SB who said so that complexity so status wise architecture document has updated to remove the secret domain has made pieces but this is somewhere we may have a word with her not fully removed but at this is product apartment also Hannah\u0027s we\u0027re talking tomorrow and abortion which didn\u0027t make my change but it wasn\u0027t to researchers a pneumo HD and the protocol is a schema relating lule√• circuit domain is a first-class City that right have identifier name key and saw in schema this now become yeah so this is so any have comment or update this is an issue that we believe we had consensus for at last IETF and now you\u0027re just reporting the action has been done in the architecture document and so I think the editors feel that this issue is not ready to be closed yes yes he\u0027s just Sarah that\u0027s a pretty close to all right okay yes yes yes hello straight doc Amanda has been damn yeah so next one this is a very simple is he introduced and there\u0027s a thank safe and a lot of good feedback come back there terminal earlier I mean you know we\u0027re beginning we have that I was a very old time okay first draft is arrived at an agent without EAP agent cheap agent now a clarify to say we have a tip a broker you know are in rich Ward because need a handle transport layer righty Anaheim network capability so you need something in the e to do that job then this are you need property that we need something inside t to handle the tip protocol so is that such concept and this is a formally formulated district we caught tip agent so now we do have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:22",
    "text": "architecture component cut tip agent in society which would text their messages from tip a broker so this now\u0027s introducing architects talk I to a propagate to the product document and transport document tell me not as a white I have next one so on it\u0027s in a zero straight document this to issue you can see the early there was a to a couple you should relate to this no matter what you call agent you could broker what when you call an agent when talk agent now it means it a entity inside RT a has implemented is implemented dependent whether it\u0027s a trusted Application Specialist application self maybe maybe special system trust applique application or maybe not dependent ee yeah but it is a component conceptually reprint that so this one next on folder you can see it\u0027ll get better so now you have clone aside to my side you have TP broker you know reee which handles networking to remote service talk with a local tea in a device so you have tip agent Harper Philippian Tam site Sam sighs this is a created to the depth allure Israel have very hot tam-tam may run all senti went on the riccati I better say you may highways Jack you have also TV and you have component it web server we know HTTP protocol you will have on the web a server do we need to formulate some conceptual module there we come given name yeah question comebacks they say is named Tammy we call this time prokhor but it\u0027s broken right word at a let me change later for this is like your feedback yeah so so far and say do we may call this temp rocker symmetric to this you have agency a broker and then this time a service side will have this time engine right imagine when the engine like this and then you have a web tier or transport level 8 horas para autonomy is necessary HTTP temporal car so that\u0027s that from architect Stockman my question more come West so shall we this entity into the architecture diagram into the architectural document and Dave tomorrow today I can later he may have a new one more in a different stack talk about this awful product document definite will be must missions then to a pushback as a measure for the current document we need a formula that right if he introduced about that we just a temp service with talk West madam "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:22",
    "text": "service it won\u0027t pass by it\u0027s a black box from moment with the final message protocol so this up to discussion now we\u0027re thinking okay but definitely I think question until we get to the transport discussion because I\u0027m gonna expand that question to a different question any more questions that are interrelated MIDI voice I\u0027m good a flat reserved judgment and this one answered this one after entering the caption so that will come up in the transport discussion so okay so Miss equation so now it\u0027s a morph of architecture side where the promote into the architecture level I think that\u0027s a descent equation here but we may call Appa would win that brain op and then the next one about that protocol a landscape I was a protocol landscape we started with architect document they were started with the protocol say May protocol is a message the protocol you have a message exchange between te and the Tam right to manage your trust application install just installed here DVT a Manticore status but long this then we introduce architect component will have to broker and tip agent how to talk each other interoperability right then when they need API I call this tip agent API will have its definition in ot IP protocol okay in that protocol now the question says this one where should be defined we editors discussions and we may define this an architecture talk nothing in a porn talk or transport talk that one way because this can be sheer no matter what protocol define in this message but it isn\u0027t just that between retort and which ye and the TE that\u0027s a same API we meet to that that\u0027s a one proposal guide but here th and this 80-85 chat support protocol they were have I\u0027ve see already for that one right supportive on HTTP the first one requires three four Peter client app talkative a broker or a summer installer T installed in IE to trigger some installed ta do we need to define P and not so far as I know we leave that on say how that an int active broker may be platform dependent right plan for depend on whether the IOT device or Android or HDX how that done we may not be able to define that it\u0027s outside of our control so I said no this is only intention and no definition here the another side if we introduced am "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:23",
    "text": "broken savvy at am this also link here do we need to formulate some API or this only has one black box they just defined here they have a D intercept the API is called here this will be risk for API assumed lies any practice this only internally send to it process message similar to this site right API call there\u0027s a process the message was a simple JSON whatever so so far we just consider one two three the we would define a protocol for snow five TBD on top that so we may have fall off these like that one editor of the transport protocol document so I\u0027m standing over there my current opinion on your question about the weather if the API is are in here obviously the line is in here at the line is already in the document right now I think our question is how much detail you go a view about what the api\u0027s are that are expressed in that line or as a just some general statement about these API is allow you to communicate between the two and pass messages that sort of thing and so right now my opinion that expressed is that I think the level of depth that you go into should be the same between at two and five I don\u0027t have any opinion on the amount of depth that belongs in the architecture document as to whether it\u0027s very hand wavy or whether it is a list of the names of the api\u0027s I have no preference there but I think whatever the answer is for two I would prefer that the answer should be the same for five so sorry I wish that my opinion is that the one inside probably is needed at least from what I understand for some use cases the other on the right it\u0027s kind of internal in my opinion it\u0027s that they shouldn\u0027t be linked together I don\u0027t think that if that one is included that one should I don\u0027t think so I think two is to stay on five I have no okay so quick for the note takers yeah not your name sorry for these them okay so alert you\u0027re talking about interfaces five five unplugs I think two is important I and fine okay it\u0027s it could be good but I don\u0027t think it is because it\u0027s one service sleeping early so we care will be a officer inside the module somehow that\u0027s my opinion hmm thank you darling "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:29",
    "text": "this is Dave wheeler I like the symmetry between adding 2 \u0026 5 I think it\u0027s important to define them both I agree with the last the last person it\u0027s sore in this sermon sorry that\u0027s hard for my ears but I the the question in my mind is whether the api\u0027s are normative or not um clearly you know we could get away with saying 5 is not normative mm-hmm I think it\u0027s harder to say that 2 is not normative because you need to have the interoperability between software and tes when we say 2 is normative then I have a hard time saying 5 isn\u0027t for the same for the same reason it creates a lack of symmetry in the protocol and in the architecture and I think that\u0027s difficult so I understand the desire to not be normative in the tam side to allow for more flexibility I don\u0027t think it it hurts much too to have it be the same as as number 2 so I\u0027m leaning towards saying both 2 and 5 should be defined and they should be normative but I\u0027m open to having that discussion I understand the concern of defining too much I\u0027m jumping in line this is Dave Taylor go ahead and get in line you\u0027re in line it for me I didn\u0027t want to run through me okay the purpose potentially of having the names this is in of the api\u0027s in there is the names of api\u0027s is what is used to correlate behavior in the message protocol spec number one and the line number one and behavior and the transport protocols line number three right if you use the same name for something which says I invoke this event and one says I react to the following behavior in response to this event right then you can correlate information the two specs they fit together okay and so line number two is a way of doing that for the TE device side of both specs okay line number five is a way to coordinate between those two sides of the Pam side of those two specs right so that is would be the benefit of having the literal names in there is just to say if there was an update of either of those specs for some alternative specs so let\u0027s say an alternative transport spec was defined it was not HTTP right someone who\u0027s going to do a different transport spec they would say if they were normative in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:29",
    "text": "there as David suggested we were suggesting then a new transport spec that was a non HTTP would say and here\u0027s the names I have to specify the behavior for right that would be a requirement if you made it be normative right that\u0027s just my response to Dave saying he likes it being normative I said I personally have no opinion either way but if you do that that would be a benefit yeah I\u0027ll help oh sorry sorry annoyed Michigan it sorry furbish again I don\u0027t have a strong opinion like like you Dave but I\u0027m thinking of the case when I have multiple thumbs and I\u0027m kind of not sure that is the same so I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s important to have the separation inside each of the thumbs or not that\u0027s what I\u0027m a little not not clear so for this implication one time maybe it\u0027s okay to separate and have both but for multiple I don\u0027t know maybe it should be normative for that case I don\u0027t I don\u0027t have opinion but that\u0027s okay so okay so from an architecture perspective I do think it\u0027s important to describe the functional workflow when you guys speak to normative versus informative that gets to the question of what does the working group move forward towards definition and so I want to make sure that we\u0027re clear and I\u0027ll have our area director chime in to tell me if I\u0027m wrong Clara in the IETF we talked about the interfaces and so the data structures and the schema to allow these interfaces to relay information and so you could define transfer protocols or transport protocols hmm I\u0027m not sure here whether number two and number five would really be in scope for us here in the IETF I will be open to suggestions of how it could be in scope right now the way I\u0027m looking at it to me it\u0027s not even - it\u0027s not even - may not be in our scope so again the architecture spec to me describes of workflow right and so I guess if you\u0027re trying to ask that so the question was can it at least be informative right and so from an architecture perspective I guess I\u0027m not making a distinction of informative versus normative unless you\u0027re saying this is a hard to requirement that has to be in the Charter or teeth and we must define "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:31",
    "text": "these within teeth does that clarify it me taco needs to be able to hear you so I\u0027m Dave Saylor I\u0027m speaking for the participant mic from anyway this remote the I think that the API is are in scope I think the various analogies in the IETF for abstract API switch are you familiar with that term other examples in the ATF gssapi as a well known RFC that was an abstract API the taps working group this charter to do various api\u0027s and the abstract api\u0027s means that you don\u0027t specify how it looks like in a particular programming language because that can completely vary what you specify is some name for it that can appear in a document which may be different than the name that appears in a particular programming language and the meaning of that API right without specifying oh and this thing has to be an integer or something that\u0027s not abstract that would be a concrete API the ITF does those when you need to correlate behavior between two different specs like two different layers like between TCP and the layer above TCP right says here\u0027s a different event a connection comes in I lost the connection message arrived things like that that are events the TCP exposes in some sense that list of events is an abstract API that\u0027s what I believe is in scope here that\u0027s what the protocol document and transport protocol document the T probe message protocol TR PE and the transport protocol document talked about and I think it\u0027s in scope for the working group but the level of detail and the architecture document is what I do not have any strong opinion on as to whether it is that detailed or no detail or anywhere in between so Rindell again my problem with this is let\u0027s suppose you remove both two and five right I\u0027m not sure that you can have all that maybe it\u0027s not a direct protocol but it means that the term will talk directly to the tip agent so that\u0027s what I\u0027m a little I don\u0027t know that\u0027s correct so the question is right not tracked at Amtrak to this well goes to this top I don\u0027t think that\u0027ll work yeah okay so benkei ducks oh yeah dave is right we do have some precedent for talking about the abstract api\u0027s actually we do specify what they look like in programming languages in least a couple cases but that\u0027s sort of a side note and in terms of in terms of what to do for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:32",
    "text": "the architectures back itself and I sort of agree that maybe it\u0027s still unclear about whether we need to describe things as you know specific abstract api is or if we could talk about in more generic terms this is the sort of information that you need to convey between these two islanders not and exactly how you do that will be to find somewhere else Naza flee from this working group possibly implementation-specific mm-hmm so I mean we we need to consider what the architecture looks like in terms of which pieces are going to interact and what sorts of things that might be doing and yeah I\u0027m open to having the api\u0027s described I I don\u0027t know that there\u0027s a clear obvious one way versus the others so I\u0027m excited to hear people you know discussing it and seeing what they think okay yes yeah omerta next yeah and I have actually later have a one for use case for example illustrate more what\u0027s the api\u0027s may be needed oddly the functions I say what kind of a function we may need to disc described and and articulate what center at least what a way they are and conquer ApS will define a specific protocol I\u0027ve talked about to you feel slightly later and a move up here so next one the talk about it is actually it\u0027s a here just this one actually so Illustrated is my Moodle early art okay this will illustrate let\u0027s change some kind of functionality involved alright this architecture level but this more like product costs back but you more because it\u0027s up I want to show the use case a we discussed when you install ta where the TA partner is a fun note inside a clan app or maybe in system already it\u0027s another always distributed by Pam and this has major impact on the AP is API so what functionality you have a support optional require elements are comments and so on in a first draft we\u0027ll assume T upon is always farm time from service later we say for like a CH others that ta partner and not necessary from time and how to support it and we get to live in more thought during a working session you know me so the float looks like this you always start with client application right client application has manifest a file it says there was this way used to refer to suit as something with to BD it says cannot depend on one ta and this ta can be downloaded from this time URL or not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:33",
    "text": "download make contact time URL for authorization yeah that manifest file and the cloud app will pass this to tip a broker by the way this can be from an installer independent platform not as an application oil meant core applications that call installer I me that yeah that installer may call TV broke is a you to that job before me and wonder that means says you have something conceptual as a request yet okay I needed here here\u0027s a TS an 20 fire also I say AHA binary not in this case - he could shoot the steep broker he broke first contact he procured parkways a tip agent locally is a TA audience thought and even starts that you don\u0027t need necessary co-op right but so that the first thing caught the T tip agent now you need function how to card that first AP has a request here I\u0027ll correct yet whatever you called there\u0027s a request here tip agent inside said is a TA or do you start yes no let\u0027s assume empty no I don\u0027t know ta they announced for this one with the Tammy URL override a policy card right so spot a cell right say this could tell me URL but then this one\u0027s whether it has known time earlier that time already contact me in the past I\u0027ve trusted time then we make shortcut head if you never know that time right is it give me time and name knew that that says yet right I don\u0027t know what it is I mean atrocity I will not leak my information what it does say this one would go back to here it is here\u0027s the time you could contact so call bhakti bhakti broke is now talk with Tam again now we\u0027ve got a step first one foot contact what a court my the first kind of a card any day with the API pass know that wrist for network pass or name we call it connect there may be sauce on my initial contact whether you need is on time come back says it give me that the last status at same time it\u0027s a sign message so that it can tell the sixth tell the tip agent who I am so he can make decision whether are well a lot of temp to to something in this device and to make that a car tip broker will has the message camp give it to the agent what a cart well I could generate a name now process T per message right it\u0027s just API so look at this our abstract api\u0027s if yeah I\u0027m sorry interface how to record that\u0027s as a work no it just discussed so now first once the process is on Cory now this one you says okay I\u0027m a good day and remember this one requesting you start T air outputting as a message correct Co response which they requested ta yes t ID and this one right here is T "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:38",
    "text": "planning hash okay by the way this one you have local pond or a and this generates such message is signed signed by te key and a now send it back send it back to step 8 queries funk back and now come come back say okay this is the Weis I trust and I would say decide proceed to you start yeah it\u0027s sending you start here command you know this tier command it doesn\u0027t need to give that ta Pinery right blop because he upon your locally available but what one thing does was I was gonna mention that one we talk about is flow message ta Panerai while we send it over we get tears there either version or pond or a locally quanta ponder it I may say you have old version or you have pond route don\u0027t trust so you give a tear hash that hash or some of whatever on telef√≥nica or some data you could tell the panel rate data about a TA so Tim can make a policy decision it can make have a later version ta partner I said isn\u0027t watching you should be is not the one you already released right because you may have a lot older version locally the latest version may be in cloud and that\u0027s the intention so you say so just workflow why\u0027s this come back now you can install one thing I wanna point out here is the API so now see now you have an install command is a T per message that was signed and encrypted but over enemy secret ways a mermaid City and kept the piety Tiki here so that machine encrypted keep a poker in bikinis that Tommy broker right all the network transport you sure you came data for to tip agent in this case it doesn\u0027t more than that you can tell what they need does is need to do is put it in story a message process plus optional ta partner that itself but is that a piece of outside of a time remember it\u0027s a other side a sign a message it is a form ie not a from a sign amazing for time it\u0027s locally here well it\u0027s sign T upon resigns anyway ta partner is signed by who by the similar provider not necessary for town all right forget who she deliver author right who\u0027s the developer applicant develop a silver provider sign up our silver provider actually this uh I said if you talk writing tomorrow I think this is one part of the sinus sauce or more clarification so interesting if I\u0027m a might be entity to buy the SP SP time device all have a key and certificates multiple entities rights three time key kawazu key and SP signing key so anyway so the point is this a function here need a company that key upon is optional and past the agents not tip a journey "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:38",
    "text": "install a solution it has a binary it may retrieve a binary form local system it you may not give to me maybe in a resource location already know I will fish myself so that gives this cut four options different variety and different usage as you can see we need to handle when you dress so this will add some parkour complexity but it looks all there\u0027s a valid case that we need to consider so this was a will have a wireless by the port brainstorming by editors there so this would be a flow any comments for if it wasn\u0027t where some tes may need the TA binary in order to install the TA binary other tes may not right and so I think in presentations in this working group I think David wheeler in this sx1 explained it s GX is an example of one that does not need the actual TA binary at install time it only happens at say load time or whatever you don\u0027t need the actual bits of the thing other T\u0027s may store the actual te e and say protected storage right and so that\u0027s why I mean says you know if needed by a te e right it\u0027s not optional it\u0027s in one implementation it would be there and another implementation it would not be there it depends on the DVD is there a I just did a quick look at a three Randy Turner with Lana senior is there a use cases have been mentioned about connections between across networks between a agent and something outside of the device basically the multicast applications to multiple agents at the same time or multicast there is a section about IOT in the architecture document and in my industry we have we might want to send down the same thing to thousands of devices doing them one at a time might be a little much so that\u0027s a new case to me so so far we consuming individual device wanti broker may be multiple by the IT broker may have multiple TV agents in the multicast for one device but you say if a won\u0027t tip over two hundred thousand Matic as much with devices and I\u0027m we have not considered yet kind of my smarter baby but also may start a fire there may be a franchise yeah okay yeah yep but you Bert you\u0027re you brought up a use case I think that was this is honest so far in many of the discussions we talked about the trends "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:38",
    "text": "were that they\u0027ve put together on HTTP but we didn\u0027t discuss and maybe maybe we should in a document this that in some of those use kids like IOT use cases we\u0027re probably not using many kids not using HTTP as the transport but something else and they are indeed the popular car here would use sort of a multicast distribution model or at least something that is at the radio link group communication security and and maybe maybe that would be useful to describe in the architecture document even though those protocol mechanisms already exist and and we are only talking about transporting the OTR P messages on top of those existing protocols so yet okay value to write correct I see your suggestion here even this transport layer is on a motor-car not here right yeah we talked about this level right this or may have it go out to some much cast in step is this on this one some or none that this one this is more local right yes so the client appetizer is is the device management find out so it\u0027s not really like there\u0027s only this app and then that damn broke has also the device management servant so that\u0027s the underlying protocol that provides that distribution mechanism and that that exists already has been to try it out and some people actually deploy that already and so on so in our Charter and our original poster we talked about there are many different ways to distribute the TA binaries themselves and of course there\u0027s many different ways to distribute the client apps and so example in our car to recover and that architecture document you cover what happens when it was bundled and what happens when it\u0027s not bundled and in the patent the West version they would put into three or four different cases into the architecture document and so here if we talk about a multicast distribution of say the client application or multicast distribution of the TA binary that is bundled with the client application that is orthogonal to the whole use of say o TRP okay because o GRP can work without transporting the TA binary itself and so to answer the question about multicast if multicast is done it\u0027s just the binary distribution which is not done inside OTR P then it does not change anything on this slide everything I\u0027m good this line is about you know switch slides about what happens when you do bundle a teen a binary into a client app which is one of a couple of different use cases right and so if the client app was distributed originally be a multicast and so is the TA binary in this slide okay the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:39",
    "text": "communication between the teat broker and the Tam is still unicast but that\u0027s about metadata and security keys not about the distribution of the big binary right and so this slide here is still fully compatible with multicast because this is agnostic as to how you actually distribute to the TA by area itself this is Dave wheeler I think the distribution of the binaries could be multicast but our whole protocol is based on a an attestation from the te e to the Tam so we could talk maybe in the architecture document about decoupling that more directly and using a multicast to push out a binary to too many and end stations that probably requires us to talk a little bit about opening up a different type of transport right with a port that\u0027s listening on multicast but in the in the installation write an authorization of a te that still point-to-point from Tam to te e in order to make the attestation work there isn\u0027t really a way to do a multicast station so right I\u0027m gonna speak up as a suit working group chair here I was join T fancy working group chair and so tomorrow we\u0027ll have a discussion about the relationship to suit as part of Hana ciseaux TRP presentation the discussion of how you distribute binaries to things is something that I claim is heavily related to the suit manifest discussion and I would invite people who want to participate in the you know could I multi cast off how would I reference a by URI ata that is multicast or whatever is a great discussion to take to the suit working group but I see my suit co-chair in the back who just sat back down so he\u0027s not um so I don\u0027t think we actually have to do a lot our neighbor that I think it\u0027s useful to discuss this topic in the architecture documented that they are indeed other transport and the distribution of the binary may be done in multiple different ways but I don\u0027t think it will require us to do a new protocol mechanisms because those exist already and have been used like for example we\u0027ve been using this distribution mechanism in Laura van and it\u0027s actually it\u0027s not using IP in that case for the distribution and I agree with the other notes that Dave will add it earlier yeah I think that if just the tip on our caste chip itself it would be simple problem but for the adaptation hor it\u0027s a into end today the individual device you get a multiple castle have a form of devices they\u0027ve had different keys and we cannot do either yeah okay okay good it\u0027s a like that we have summer ok Coromant okay I will move on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:39",
    "text": "there um basically illustration you can see hopefully help that this slides over where the functionalities we need to illustrate the architecture and a way to will go to the product cost specifications that\u0027s more for that purpose summarize what\u0027s the status at issue number 11 is it already updating the document there is a report that the document will then update to match our discussion now this one is which the sky will have not opted document yeah and this was not in any document yet I think it is sauce particularly upon right we do have this one actually atomic dust nation which support T upon and claw nap with into this level of detail and how an impact and what considerations big architectural half we talk about a click on save up with the requirement right what part are gonna shoot to do and other should do okay yes so good thank you so dimensional eighteen so look at this a fellow I think some product on this is one thing here Oh actually about it is on me this to issue related to this that there\u0027s this relate to issue about earlier would have number nine Tim but installed here in single pass say we have multiple girls in his architect did I make it efficient I don\u0027t make each end then I mean a single pass single pass what this progress Ted update we first started wise like single pass means today you need to run trips you always start with time Cory what the Vice look like is tear there what\u0027s there then you start here and so on but is that if she insists can you just a don\u0027t to to Ron chefs use one run trip right so then it means you can start with T locally sign requests and time terms yes go ahead compact that one on track so this is two issues related related okay now come back to this on the two issues here this one needed hiding in a similar way can we achieve that and we come to this conclusion indicator ideally your claw nap t brokered poverty region locally yes and use sigh first however you don\u0027t want to send your signing information out to someone you leak your information because you don\u0027t know that time yet that privacy concern okay no means so you don\u0027t support it you send it not she not right yeah so that\u0027s all yeah yeah okay that\u0027s a harvest kind of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:41",
    "text": "a talk by to say really reach REE gave me URL I would not trust a URL yet because I do not know how to timing information yet then I will not give anything so that was a sign you could but or not okay we\u0027re not a give a sunny information out until I know it is the time I could trust alright so for that reason you can see they\u0027re here sign I\u0027m not going to give it a Sunday the first in step four I only give maybe Tommy URL you contact a five step you do the first contact verified contact time time give you some back time give Asante that give you certificate now you can verify this at mo I trust after that second time I think protocol variation remembering on says okay subtle here second time we install another two year later the TTP agent can crash at time certificate here already contact time once in the past another time if you can tell me URL come time identify I can now sigh first you know one single pass so there\u0027s a card that two protocols it\u0027s a particle variation who want a support post right you get debit and then you have oh yeah this is Dave wheeler so so from my perspective there there\u0027s two issues one is is privacy and the other is the issue between multiple round trips to the Tam versus local storage in in my te the the way that Ming has described it I can maintain a list of that I\u0027ve authenticated before and then I can use that to reduce the round-trip but if I don\u0027t have that storage hmm then I can\u0027t do that yep so an alternative is to allow the TE to be configured or the t p-- agent to be configured to either protect privacy and require the two round-trips or to be configured to say I don\u0027t really care about privacy and I\u0027d rather be optimized for the round trips and in that case then you\u0027re opening yourself up to a potential privacy issue where you use a URL from the REE that\u0027s not trusted and you\u0027d send your attestation information to a Tam that you don\u0027t trust and they may not even respond back to you right or you could get a response back that\u0027s signed and the CA is not in your trust anchor list so then you don\u0027t trust it and you end the whole whole protocol exchange but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:41",
    "text": "but the trade-off here really is storage and privacy versus round trips and privacy and as well I\u0027m the protocol specs the protocol specs only send the the current working group one that Belcher pp1 that one only sends the FM station information encrypted with the Tam\u0027s key yeah so what happens is inside when line six five pharmacies Emma which a message that comes from the Tam includes a tiki which you may have cached and that\u0027s what you\u0027re encrypting it with our six key so that\u0027s the current protocols answer to the privacy question is you only send it to somebody so that can\u0027t actually decrypt it right right and in the discussion that Ming and I had the this morning we had a question about the trust anchor list and whether that included tam keys or whether that included CA keys for the Tam there\u0027s a presentation that Kyra has a ten minutes later on and exactly that\u0027s issue number 63 right though we want to come back to that when it comes up great yeah yeah and in saying this we could discuss your either two point here why is if you already have time certificate here not CA you knew to trust right way then can\u0027t attract you to shoot for the single pass a second one say AHA I don\u0027t care or who knows Matt device ID so what right then that tip agent to a pre-installed there most probably yes ite it configure say when coming I decided give a sound requests used to say I forget this option right I could give a sign request talk to time or say no I to give you the you are you can\u0027t act I\u0027ll require you give me some data first those can happen there\u0027s a comfort of our architecture I said protocol scope right possible I think causes all general ideas here say we want to support this is our particle should support such use cases options then that relate to up schema of the schema your missus completeness writing in protocol spec will say what and miss at this this message here write a more site so this a flavor yeah good this is a good discussion another one another one this one talk about a say a use case where I have it yeah we talked about it we came with with us three entities again it three in today and then a diagram here you have similar provider you have time and you have device silver provider give a truss application to device right through attempt silver providers are not always a temp provider all right as a particular case however "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:42",
    "text": "many supplies a software work Whizzer like at this time oops Tam is a camera manufacturer they put a software into camera but I\u0027ll have a AR model where you have the confidential information I don\u0027t want even time no I don\u0027t want to give that the IP to the manufacturer right only I know now how do you deliver that to devices so that their case is here let\u0027s kiss here so no to that one first on T upon ray is encrypted form time to device so you see earlier I take a packet of flow here when t upon or is it distributed from tam-tam being encrypted by the baskis the only time a scanty question these channels into insecure what the topic here has silver provided behind this on another grammage a second yeah this aunt silver quarter here this diagram comma will give the TA into insecurity but from silver provider how to sever productivity binary @m cannot decrypt can\u0027t um she not see it because if time can reverse engineered code right so that\u0027s a problem which address that\u0027s actually interesting case and justification Notley it also delivered confidentiai p there so how to solve the problem how to solve a problem and a discussion come back ear say that case time can\u0027t deliver your application has simply between a binary which is just a generate code and confidential P Street as a personalization theta rather you initialize that artificial intelligence marble your theta mala is that as that data initialization piece so what do you have is that you have at am by manufacture reinstall software generic software whatever your am what do you have and you should has a data time we\u0027ve got data time another time but at that time a silver provider you were hosted so that way we can leverage a sim time to device T per protocol without change so you guys dress Palmer that well yeah there is a problem that well that\u0027s a proposal it may be other solution to dresses so far that to what we consider how to solve that problem provide a valid IP protection scheme this is the proposal from the editors right it\u0027s to remember the issue was introduced by saying we\u0027re gonna remove security debate and so the editors left all the use cases that security man was providing and assumption of security providers as well we want to make sure that when we route security domain it\u0027s related content we don\u0027t actually break any use cases so how could you maintain this use case and so they walk through all these and they said well the way that we deal with this is to have the service provider for this particular case they could have a second tab and you can reference that now hey or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:42",
    "text": "whatever it is and so you can use exactly the same protocol well how many changes and so they said well we should just update the architecture document to explain that fact yeah this world is a high-level would talk by the requirement is act a doc would put us yes we\u0027re supporting this use case a sac take this won\u0027t be a use gets you scope and it will talk high-level how can\u0027t dress this there\u0027s any objections then we can say yeah please duct tape your protection document to explain why you didn\u0027t break any of the use cases and it does not require protocol changes and then we can close the issue and a quota issued for that sixty four letters issue with you know how usual earlier but of a discover a valid use case and I was just attracted list this way also talked about how you can potentially use it with confidential code the example case is confidential personalization data but the same thing would work either way right whatever you can express in a suit manifest Brendan explained during the aedra meeting right that many of you are at you can use this to manifest to express any files or any contacts yet okay I thought it might kind of look so this is so far it\u0027s a no that\u0027s a pretty much the interim a working session with hat is a major topics I think there\u0027s a fear could result from there so this is good to other issue list talked about this on earlier it\u0027s a TATP no not here and with this earlier but you thought earlier so hard to do that one it\u0027s a it\u0027s a complicate you know software dependencies can be infinity loop or deep but whatever so is may sue to a group restart address similar problem or would defer to that one so what it is a document wise which adopted reflect that then we can close the issue multiple times for a single clan app all right just the example we said one Khurana can\u0027t depend t8 he has binary and personalization they could go to separate tab I even won\u0027t here can go to different tabs multiple times supported by one yes it\u0027s valid use case is in scope will support it and then this was from last meeting family you\u0027ll see more but it isn\u0027t no okay so it\u0027s just um so we will have documented update document that we have this one support we just say only that you notice this one I want to point out you could have multiple time but it\u0027s a this one single time content a bad tip right so that means that type of how all the other tears you have it multiple time but multiple time but forgiving tip you go "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:42",
    "text": "to one and the tears supply their tier two that time if it\u0027s a different attempts that one time can talk all the time leak like it all it yes just like a google apps talk like a whole look after happy and won\u0027t plan you can turn them from one place but you decided to the article article do another class I was fine all right you can go to different places but all together this is a simplified decisions just say makes this live simplified not always really acted 200 different times all right so that\u0027s a quick burn on there for one device we reflected that in document which other could update there was a one word change there and every name we\u0027re ready to close [Applause] capability of agitations McKenna\u0027s they\u0027ve you talk more there you live out to mass tomorrow so no help right go back okay aha day feeler hackathon participant we actually talked about this issue and so I just wanted to relay to the working group that there is something that an implementation has to do with and my belief was that it did not require any changes to the architecture document and I want to share it here to see if people agree that it requires no change the architecture document okay and so what this is saying is that if I have a client app and the client app depends on two TAS okay let\u0027s take a case where one of those TAS is already installed in the t\u0027ee and one of those TAS is not okay now the one that is installed may have been obtained from Tam one and the new ta needs to come from Tam - all right least that\u0027s what the manifest says okay so as an implementation decision you have to figure out how you\u0027re going to deal with that right does that mean that you want to ask Tam one which is the one that you already got ta one from for ta - or does it mean that it\u0027s perfectly fine because I\u0027m only going to be talking to Tam - for everything and I just ignore the fact that I got that from Tam one all right that the first ta right and so how do I do with this case I think is an implementation issue because I\u0027m looking at the part in red here where it says a single team was contacted for a client to have right if you say oh that one was already installed okay then of course I\u0027m gonna call - one only for the missing ones okay well what if ta one is actually right in the middle of the process of big installs right so you have these issues you know race conditions so how do you deal with that in me thinking through it at the hackathon I thought that this was an implementation issue and didn\u0027t need to be serviced to the level of the architecture document but it\u0027s something an implementation would actually definitely have to deal with because there it could easily come up I express a dependent to TAS one of them is already being installed or has already been installed for my different TA from where ta - what do I do about that okay so that\u0027s the question and I\u0027m interested in David wheelers I guess "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:43",
    "text": "opinion as to whether you think it affects the architecture or not because right now I don\u0027t I think it\u0027s a protocol commentation issue but so the this is Dave wheeler so the discussion that we had last time and what I was putting forward was that this this problem really is a bit is yeah it\u0027s a bit some it\u0027s a bit manufactured in in a real ecosystem when a service provider puts out an application and they publish things to a Tam they\u0027re not going to publish part of the application to a Tam and part of the application to a different town the the whole application including the TAS is really going to be published to a single Tam and they\u0027re going to provide a list of Tam\u0027s that they\u0027ve published to and so the likelihood that when you do it install i\u0027ve got to go to tam a to get part of the app and tam be to get another part of the app is really not likely to happen unless someone\u0027s really screwed up in the way that they\u0027re publishing their applications now the other thing that you described which is I\u0027ve got this dependency and so do I know that ta one is fully installed and I have to go out and get ta be that whole kind of multi-threaded issue is really a local issue how does the tea broker and TE know that something\u0027s happening so yeah yes I agree with everything that they\u0027ve set the the ecosystem point is if you have a particular TA that is out there that\u0027s like a third party ta that two different client apps from different organizations want to depend on now of course in that particular case I agree the way you phrased it which is the client a vendor will pick a particular TA a particular Tam and that\u0027s where all of its dependencies will be and so that just means an ecosystem this is a particular example or a particular TA could be retrieved the exact same version could be done through either of two towns okay and so that\u0027s why I think it\u0027s an implementation issue because you can just assume that you only care about the ones that are missing if the version number matches it doesn\u0027t matter which can you got it from okay and that\u0027s why I believe that it does not affect the architecture document that is just implementation because it\u0027s as if you\u0027ve got up on the other tan because the hash will match you agree okay so I think one an interesting perspective of this is how we deal with open source right so open SSL is a perfect example right we we a lot of applications depend on open SSL but most of the time it\u0027s already installed on on the platform and you just have to make sure you\u0027ve got the right version and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:43",
    "text": "suits gonna handle that for us so it in that case if I don\u0027t have open SSL installed my te version of open SSL it\u0027ll get pulled down if I do we ignore it and suits gonna solve all those problems for us maybe but it might be useful to lattes your suit annotate that in New York picture is the example hmm for how it may become an implementation issue not how suits are gonna solve everything so when talk of this aren\u0027t you some point I don\u0027t one thing when I caveat we talked about a single time contacted by cheaper broker which triggered by a tip agent remember to talk earlier exception is this data tap when when you solve something data and upon or separate you will go to two times not a one-time all right so we\u0027ll oh I think we\u0027ll add some this wording in architecture document just separate this one when you start tech data time can be different which it differently this one\u0027s a much generically talked about to say one application multiple independent at es right different yes but if you seemed here I have a secret data and Bonaire and will allow you would have a and how to do that as a not to use ketchup on both the protocol in architecture we need a let\u0027s try to this is a little bit except Shinto that but we got categorized differently I got just no to that that interest in problem number seventeen this is this discussion is the one that is for 11:00 a.m. tomorrow so we\u0027re going to skip the issue number seventeen yeah this one every other its yeah Dave wheeler again so so we haven\u0027t talked about this table ugly enough as you as you were discussing right so the the data so if if a service provider is providing a data temp so they\u0027re issuing out the personalization data applications they have to scale that their data Tam to be able to allow all devices that they\u0027re gonna service to be able to come to their Tam and and get that personalization data hmm in most cases if they\u0027re going to scale to that level they can also provide the bits for the application self so that\u0027s it yeah so I fall back to my previous position "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:44",
    "text": "that I think that the service provider would probably just stand up their own Tam and they would have everyone come to them now there may be I can envision a service provider Tam saying I can deliver the bits for personalization which is maybe 128 encrypted bits but I can\u0027t give you the two megabits of the application and then may offload that to a you know a larger more scaled out Tam but I think in a lot of cases if someone\u0027s going to stand up do the effort to stand up at am the likelihood that they\u0027re not going to have the bandwidth to service the entire application to to their a is I wasn\u0027t wondering whether they meant dedicate to some more trustworthy town say I\u0027m not do it for the kid to a your ham provider I really trust not like a manufacturing in a different country something I just talk a lot of here right but I may have a time with hooli hosted time they\u0027d have all the capability and scalability service right so you don\u0027t have a who\u0027s your soft but he\u0027s choice at a guy you dedicated to them yeah I\u0027ll be cautious of do we let\u0027s not make the protocol overly complicated in order to support going out to multiple Tam\u0027s if if that starts to become an issue with the flow zone I don\u0027t think it will I think they can be separate but if we start to have issues with you know coordinating different flows to different teams we may want to rethink what we\u0027re doing because if you do that at is this push it back to either silver provider host am host am themself to be that scalable right or they will have to find a one they can trust so you are me ready I\u0027ve given everything to you so you will Wow onto yeah you would you were not disclose it yeah so okay now what I\u0027m hearing in this discussion I want to confirm that our understandings right what I\u0027m hearing is that we don\u0027t yet think it\u0027s required to say that the 10th that the broker needs to talk to you might aims in any case right because we\u0027ve talked about a couple cases here that I think they was brought up where you can still do personalization data without having that broker talk to two towns right and a couple of those cases if I understand right is where the Surfrider hosts the Tam the service provider contracts is something they trust the host the template service provider things and then there\u0027s the case of course where the binary itself is bundled with the client happen so you don\u0027t have to do that and so you\u0027re only going to the tamp at the personalization a in the first place I think in all three ghost cases right yeah there\u0027s only one Tam with the broker talks to you and so I think what we\u0027re hearing is that we\u0027re not convinced there\u0027s any case in practice that we would actually need to talk to to Tanz is that what you\u0027re saying yes yes but now come "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:45",
    "text": "back to this Oh Jeffrey ability here is that are the printed packer now this on enemies this solution is not going to be used because this is this and talk about say if you want protected as a I write it is a kind of example am are wall that data will be given to Tam you trust you don\u0027t have a host you let me know that attack because you know compact this song because in this case you talk it to time my data time and find a bit tap so you\u0027ve talked the same tap and then this Salida which is I wouldn\u0027t want to risk that one say for such a happy protection you find a time you trust and a you develop post partner and data there right and if you go back to the if you go back to the previous slide from from last time where we where I talked about this there\u0027s a the fourth bullet under resolution in in the case where a Tam doesn\u0027t you know only is doing the personalization they can basically front a second tan behind them to pull the information through the only issue where that wouldn\u0027t work is if that data Tam doesn\u0027t have the bandwidth to do that right and I just don\u0027t see that as as a barrier now maybe maybe in practice it is maybe I\u0027m being too too freeway this case you say there\u0027s a hundred templates and manufacture can will be fronting the data tap right because that to have majority piece of that either way or either way it could be done right you could contact the day of Tam get your personalization data directly and then it could front for the application town yeah it\u0027s a it could is just a general writing for Carthoris at that time has a less capacity right you can do it this way yeah if it could then that become proxy cut yeah I think that could that better time give whatever equipped data that fronting tap rocks it doesn\u0027t have visibility right I think I think though if you have the application Tam fronting the data Tam for personalization you\u0027ve actually created a man-in-the-middle so you may not really get privacy in practice yeah then how we do the key exchange yeah yeah I was thinking about that because of who is a Tamara the my citations into which attempt we refer on team and yeah so I think we still need to think through this young Queen watch at alpha line before we finalize this on I think this chick is you know the two editors are still not quite converging and agreement "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:45",
    "text": "it may not hurt to pick it up to the mail list so that others can provide Vera this is honest I was wondering whether I\u0027m so when Brendan presented the the suits work and how it applies to deep to me that personalization data concept that can be sort of like is part of the suit mechanism looks like a fairly simple mechanism doesn\u0027t require the deployment of a data time because the time when you create that personalization data and protected it that\u0027s not nothing specific to OT abhi itself and then when I hit add an terminology I here OTR be messages prop being processed here and I see that more as the developer needs to find out like how did he want to package the whole thing and how did he want how do they want to distribute certain things to no it\u0027s the certain extent yeah we assume that personalization data like I a model is something you won\u0027t put this manifest file right now put a suit because that would be blob into upon a blob somewhere you encrypted by atomizer center device from ISP provider has to be encrypted with a key that only that device guys or it out define that by the definition of personalization day yeah yeah so you think bye-bye that it has to be Odia be sort of I\u0027m part of a message I\u0027m ot a bit of a mess but yeah it\u0027ll be a yes it\u0027s before the class that us yeah pieces can\u0027t be constructed or can\u0027t be finished or at least the content that is referenced in there if it\u0027s if it\u0027s a reference right can\u0027t be finished until you have the key that you get from accurately the device public key sorry just have one worried about the scalability because what happens will you have a very large number of IOT devices that you cannot serve by one time you may need to split into multiple because otherwise there are all the scalability of sending that to Meg whatever you have to send could be a problem so I\u0027m not sure that it\u0027s not a privacy it\u0027s more of a reality of you know scalability so I\u0027m wondering what\u0027s happening in that case when you have the same application but two times to talk to because of depending on the region or whatever so I\u0027m not sure that that case the scale of BT in that case works you mean the question about the times the capacity to support magnatum Isis well this is assumption you know what at Google anyway we have many Internet services we have surveillance devices that if you host a time service you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:46",
    "text": "can\u0027t design to support capacity that\u0027s a sumption here time service you do that so well so the point is it\u0027s just like I would do any other AWS service so yeah I would I would stand up at am in multiple regions on AWS I\u0027d put my load of balance or somewhere in key right and I would use Amazon key management to share that key so no matter where you were it looks like you\u0027re talking to one Tam yeah 1u Iowa boluses oh yeah yeah another one time no just want time service you are it\u0027s a farm a service part okay now this one we talked about David Taylor tomorrow have dedicated a lot of this sauce anchor this is a warm for the also major topic right as a contextual label right and time your trust anchor we need to support life cycle right away ng annum or delete older ones whatever right but after all what we roughly mention there was that on this to question one is does it fit into architect document away should be a separate document I said trust anchor what a format what format is right of transacts off and has update the two issues involve that issue city to and 51 put together right what a format and how do you enable that update at the same time we notice that a suit is a reverse and they may Soviet you have but this will need more work said away more work what a mangling here is suit is more for firmware update scheme nevermind standing but trust and is a key management yeah it\u0027s true the management like a rather have a root imagine match at chrome and a Firefox Mozilla and so on so that\u0027s different problem right well having out to Kingdom much deep on this one but it\u0027s a one for the open question I know it\u0027s a the open task Wartortle but it could update town so learning you move the hacks and they were not discuss away so once I always ever have a will have special system ta which is a which has privilege to update the trust anchors but I can\u0027t a new certificate removal routes on that a woman to push it but later there some more information about a suit whiticus which along with them I think they need a more follow up whatever is that evening scope for suit romantic kiss route keys recessive cats I have impressions and not that but I think they need to follow up at this one one of the sutures I believe that this same problem is shared by suit whether suit believes that it can be solved with a manifest format I don\u0027t know yet "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:46",
    "text": "I think it might be but I don\u0027t know what the working group things or you can look the editors of the documents that great now so yeah but I agreed that the same discussion would be in scope for suit hmm so what am i mark our science up but it\u0027s a race it\u0027s here it\u0027s about a dependency well all the line you said but then that\u0027ll be synchronized that workgroup there so we differ there this work well if I differ then the architect on whether we can close it all will have to wait there to finish this that\u0027s a yeah to a group we need to be line for sure it\u0027s just for this on webcam whether we can complete defer their before they have defined I think the possible overlap words can maybe in the intersection between teeth and suit is if you consider the trust anchor store to be personalization data in the te and the firmware part of that that we need and it\u0027s squarely in the intersection between the two groups right and so both groups I think could discuss this okay okay I need a follow up as much as it is to issue still all parts they\u0027re gonna major issues others say we talk about NFL I\u0027d have felt it\u0027s a more than less complex and we\u0027re close we\u0027re close to close those issues we\u0027re talk about this one you start here single pass early and local T signing not bad one I would just keep this allows the issue of talk today it\u0027s a we closely something there was a Anders who could bring up a proposal so King proposal about ot IP protocol self current protocol he proposed a way use a session key based one I\u0027m sitting the base one he\u0027s a pirate protocol is that clan aside tip broker or less conceptually tip broke and T page and API protocol tip broke or translated a JSON message process there don\u0027t push it down to the label more important like he said he would like to have a tea and TAM used even oh man what kind of key change to negotiation key after that future attestations based attestation key you can station key our future as they already artists you have proved our use agitation proof so that one there is a proposal is a can we move that direction and we added the chair sort of commented we\u0027ll look at this one first of all convey this dramatic change from current JSON see bond based protocol kind of a stateless move to a pioneer protocol and use a session key tutor our remaining asset Asia like ITT nari try to leverage rats I don\u0027t Amaro Tyler grass and use a manufacture suit to data traumatic it\u0027s a word different that Concepcion mala is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:46",
    "text": "a dramatic change alright second one the pirate probabilities and simple protocol will also fail this is more friendly right friendly you to depart you to read the third ones the patent that taken out is a patent either he would write you\u0027re free maybe but it\u0027s a repentant domain so based on that one fell this all what you know felt comfortable go there it\u0027s a lack of support United us and then the filer just close issue that I do want to report all the issues we saw and it gave me practice would group and yeah so this are the coast and fine so that\u0027s a long silence after the issue was filed there was looked like it was lack of interest and eventually I think David wheeler generated response and then I generally response it was a support on the list for this and so since the issue was already closed it seems to be consensus but facing the objections let us know because the the fire seemed to close it themselves saying this to not be interested in doing this session negotiation but there really were two different aspects of this proposal that are somewhat separable right one was the notion of having sessions and I think that\u0027s the one that had the IP that property associates on I mean the notion of saying the protocol between the TE and the TAM as opposed to transfer is some binary format instead of JSON rc4 and just you see Jason Seifer as the transport for some binary format that I think was an orthogonal point that it combined both of those two aspects that\u0027s proposal and we didn\u0027t see support from anybody other than the file where for either of those aspects and so unless those objections this is already closed but beacon for confirming consensus that there are no objections to closing due to lack of interest other than flower thank you this is Hank a little bit clueless about this issue because I haven\u0027t read it before I really don\u0027t the binary protocol doesn\u0027t jaysis slash seaboard things here we\u0027re doing together that aspect of the proposal which was independent of the other one at least as I read it I was today we have OTR P carried in a transport okay by analogy the filers proprietary protocol used a binary Mina packet format diagrams and there to be some that between the same layer as what OTR P works and JSON rc4 at the transport layer okay so Jason and so the broker prat cracks out the JSON or C for cracks out the binary blob passes that into te e and that the binary blob is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:49",
    "text": "what\u0027s passed between inside the TE right that was his primary protocol to get that okay yeah so he said oh well I could do this in binary and yet you still need a parser for that yeah no easy that one this become all the comment that icon that aspect saying well it seems to me like you\u0027re still gonna heavy right I didn\u0027t see an advantage of having a binary one over having a say well fed and Siebert parser right who why does that matter yeah I see the point okay thanks and maybe Highness is something yeah there\u0027s this Dave wheeler part of that discussion that I recall from from the discussion with Anders was he didn\u0027t think that a JSON parser would fit in many of the small T E\u0027s which may be true and and there were security concerns around putting those full-fledged JSON parsers inside the TE as well and and I think there\u0027s some there\u0027s some validity to that I think in in many cases were putting much more into ease today then then perhaps even five years ago on the on the session based stuff I had some discussions around at Intel we do have different attestations we call them stream based access stations where we negotiate session key and attach a test stations to that negotiation but that requires then that the parties to the protocol are two distinct points and and you can\u0027t flow attested data beyond that endpoint because it\u0027s the attestation is basically gone it\u0027s it\u0027s part of the channel so you really know no better off than maybe doing TLS and and carrying some attestation during the TLS session and so it makes it hard to build an ecosystem around the Tam when your data once it leaves the pipe is no longer a tested - and and verifiable so that\u0027s the reason why from my position we didn\u0027t want to go with a session based attestation we wanted a token based as we talked about with rats where the signature is attached to the data your your your passing back and forth I think the interesting part of the conversation was the question about what do you put in the in a normal world what versus what are you placing in the secure world and my um I discussed this on on the list with understand and I don\u0027t see how you maintain the functionality and security and then still not put most part of the code into "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:50",
    "text": "the secure word that\u0027s what I I I couldn\u0027t come up with a story while it sounds nice to just do the crypto operations in in the secure word but then what\u0027s the semantics of all of this if you do the rest in there no word in it and the secure word essentially trusts science or encrypts some hashes and that that makes me still makes me wonder of how this is supposed to work but if someone of you has some ideas on how to better make that split and but for you according to the trusted information base of course that would be really great having said that the new version and that I put together for presentation tomorrow actually has fewer messages and fewer and let much less functionality so by that it already has this much smaller trusted information base that the binary protocol versus Jason and see where protocol I will argue that that is not an architecture document issue it\u0027s a no tricky issue and tomorrow and how does this presentation tomorrow we will talk about OTR PE where I think thank you David for summarizing others as if you would say JSON inside and we\u0027ll talk about using see Bohr is the current proposal to solve that at the protocol levels and that of the architecture level yeah it\u0027s no - we\u0027ll talk about tomorrow the OTR TV - proposal supports both Jason and c4 but even before that we have had discussions in this working group that says we should probably want to allow c4 as an option that\u0027s come up in a number of different meetings but that is not something that\u0027s an architecture if you will come back tomorrow so out of that time this one issue actually this is proposed arrest us three years ago a long time ago when we did the OT IP in bikini so what do we look that at right and for look at idea - it\u0027s done not a good fit this another reason is a scope wise this this session scheme was a for security provision if you look at the protocol is called SKS secure key storage that what he put in seeker element a smart card it\u0027s more address to the security key probation but the OTP small tracer trust app management it\u0027s an application management not only for the key provision it\u0027s not key management protocol that it was a really tracer for the key management protocol for key storage e into a CSA music o elements so on so it\u0027s a different flavor right it\u0027s a strongly realized that one is that an article back to the other world kind of have keep off my hip on say keep off my key provision workgroup whirling IETF we have yes it\u0027s a three-phase rights we face probation and key into a device yeah that way you decision keep you to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:50",
    "text": "be all trace the key management this one\u0027s a application management we don\u0027t want to really focus that one use that one that\u0027s where the binary could API call lower lower tier he won\u0027t really go to Silicon label so it\u0027s a different that\u0027s a I didn\u0027t word elaborate much here but as I\u0027m a one however you see it is a application management and worst key management that wears not a great fate right okay so one more issue and the curious gonna come up and present the last of the is happy shoe survey okay thank you this one is what issue number 65 I think it\u0027s in the agendas hello um this is a key that schemata working oh thank you working for a iced tea which is Japanese national R\u0026D organization and the reason I made the slide yesterday during the hackathon with the suzaki-san and it\u0027ll be founded they\u0027ve been honest and mean or thought or five was can I go to the next slide yeah oh I think push the button I see so these are some of the files where to put the keys and certificate and Cas because this documentation for tea architecture draft is trying to be made to be generic as possible not not binding to any particular CPU not particularly trying to bind the who is the developer of ta or who is the developer the service provider or who is uh who is developing at EE and so ta could have multiple time or to considering many different kind of or situation for example client could have many TA or mini situation so the page goes to 37 written as generic as possible and then when I tried to think about how to try extend our initial prototype implementation I got confused first ten pages of a knowledge is disappearing from might not rain so try to enumerate on the slides so we when when we enhance or initial prototyping we won\u0027t put it in the differ on location of the keys in signature and CA cert so so in the this first first one is in second first diagram and second diagram "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:53",
    "text": "is pretty much doing the same whoo which ta could be loaded in verified in or on executed and in the teeth architecture documentation ta must be must be signed by service private provider and need to be verify from the agent or or TRP agent so which word it\u0027s going to be used in the documentation in the future I\u0027m not ready sure both that was one time another we try to mount EPA agent but a poor Department so far okay product one for particle if you have three protocol in future that do a captive agent corner salute ERP agent but I will try to come back TP agent architecture document and transport document news t p-- agents and so that\u0027s the one we\u0027re moving to no okay thank you and so another motivation of making this slide was writing the code on te side especially on arm it\u0027s not easy as easy to write it code on the re re si most of the not doesn\u0027t have much rich system call or library massive library you could easily use it in t side so if I miss it starting the implementing in something and we re siding and later I have to move in at ISA they will be caused a lot of headaches and pretty much the same it\u0027s how was this how the T is going to be done in the risk of 5/2 which is our objective running T on verse five and having T absolutely working on risk five - so which and and so so and the second one is correct my understanding of interest GX arm trust zone at least that on ops t/ta must be signed by te to be loaded and executed so let\u0027s jump in here because you take my name on this line that the previous slide it was the one that was about what\u0027s allowed to be loaded whoops this slide is actually about the one with the red guy the one of the green box is about what\u0027s allowed to be loaded right and so the spca sir does whatever is in your loader whether it\u0027s op t or you have launched Enclave or whatever on the red slide this is about the keys that happen when you are loaded that are used for SF station or evidence right because if it chains up to a hardware root of trust this is the keys that are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:45:53",
    "text": "used in the dice chain which is used for attestation right this is wrong relate to the discussion we have tomorrow when we get into the rats discussion all right these keys are not used for loading this is when you do get loaded you get measured and this is what is then used to feed into your active station information so I just wanted a credit card correct what the dice chain is used to wear it\u0027s not used for to decide what loads it\u0027s when you know you generate the dice chain so Dave wheeler I\u0027m confused on this slide with the red where the TA is signed by the t te private key in even in an attestation flow right the TA should be signed by the service provider that developed it now the the its agent you end up with two different search chains and that the two defense hurricanes ones used for attestation purposes but in an attestation I want to know who wrote the code right so hey I\u0027m gonna be compare that part of tomorrow\u0027s the scope okay so maybe this particular slide we can come back to you after I\u0027ve got my tomorrow we do have at least one of the participants I see Hank is in the room is one of the people that only gonna be there after 11:00 tomorrow and so it\u0027s probably for can anybody else that we advertise to rats saying it\u0027s going to be part of this discussion coming 11:00 tomorrow and I expect those the people who are going to be involved in this discussion okay well we are welcome to come back to this when we come back to your issue number 17 discussion you\u0027re back up here you\u0027re welcome to regenerate this and to me this isn\u0027t too related that\u0027s part of this I\u0027m glad I put it in the Cypress I love this because this is this is something I was also confused with the first page in the second page and there\u0027s only two more slides yes is there anybody that has not seen the blue sheets raise your hand even if you have not seen the blue she\u0027s okay thank you this is our 12 minute warning please send the blue cheese over one question to the Fuhrer yes I have these issues been posted to the kid hunt yes I just post the PDF on the github the issue is that some of the implementers have found the document unclear about which keys were in which location and they were trying to correlate between the table and the in the architecture document and the diagram the air protector document and we\u0027re having problems correlating to so this isn\u0027t just editorial issue yeah yeah this amine pants are just yeah at that market a document I have keys "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:55",
    "text": "certificates in the table in tables is a client the last time that in not eating a thing wasn\u0027t a crime she\u0027s really boxes where\u0027s that way stop so we can has talked about in my keys right he\u0027s four at the station key for anything yeah I saw the way that you know Hakkasan that works attacks on helpful with tacos right so when audience feel this with understand aware DSN immune so I thought from I need to paint away to a la strategy you know preparing slides with their own purposes ensuring them about to say is this right is this what the document means he said that looks interesting you should present these pledge to the working group and if everybody agrees then we at least know that everybody is the same understanding of the interpretation so yeah it was a place code to there but just today so whether is it good to next level yeah it\u0027s not like sign - yeah just trying to clarify page 19 of this ASCII chart yes and the the third slide is most of the authority documentation talks about how to pass the authority for binary format between the time and deep agent so so um yes in the discussion yesterday is pretty much was obvious that ten private key and T\u0027s see a cert is on Tam and opposite on the T agent and this was it was yes it was pretty straightforward and clear yes in this slide of discussion we\u0027re not talking about trust anchor update or anything just when we start the message or when you start the TA or generate the TA where the key will be in where who is the how it will be verified and the last one is I\u0027m not particularly sure it\u0027s does it match in the architectural documentation or whether it\u0027s going to be really used as as it is in the implementation but um my understanding was om will have TFM pub pub and private key pair and the device will have a private key and then the time or able to verify the device with it I gave a comment here I guess I have a Varginha author on Dashawn make it up we Tom justify this agitation the time trust device firstly trust tiki mighty certificate chin into a TC yeah you have that one in last slide I would have your TCA optionally the Archana of the original option I would have said that T "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:51:55",
    "text": "we install is from secure boot at a firmware tea table case the trusted firmware sorry from work he was scientist at T loaded is from secure boot and from Secretary\u0027s home where even that can have a certificate later can make a decision say this is device which run T which further secured by a secret boot so you have a to trust level trustee itself also optionally demand or mandate whether you want to say you must give me a shuttle firmware last assertion but when this protocol gets to the last few sessions where ITF we are retiring that trust firmware requirement because some t turn on habit i just not also it\u0027s not normal so normalized so that was i think we\u0027re good to put out a formula tech document so we if you could wear less the slide you can see that time always have a TCA keys there right that what a trusted right TCA you trust the last agitation based on at the wise key firmware was optional in our document but a new one we are making a way out so that will be updated so let me this is Dave wheeler let me agree with me I think the trusted firmware is probably still going to be an example so if you go back to your previous slide this is going to be the trust relationship so the TE the te will have a private key which the Tam will trust in the implementation we will talk about the the next slide where you have a trusted firmware and your T private key will will have a a route that goes back to a trusted firmware key or something so so your the key for the TE maybe its itself just a single key or it may be part of a trust chain and the trust chain is just an implementation option a trust in is from the wrong bootloader yeah first bootloader and then you if I were you you boot and then yes right and the MP in yes and in some of the hardware based T\u0027s it may appear as though it\u0027s a single key in Te but it may actually be derived from other Hardware keys through through different processes as well so it may not actually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:57",
    "text": "expose itself as a certificate chain although it may be some sort of Hardware chained P so and we\u0027ll try to explain that better in the in the architecture document we haven\u0027t gotten to to that stage yet and that that\u0027s probably where a lot of the confusion lies well thank you and this is the best fight yeah thank you okay so unless there\u0027s no other orders of business we\u0027re running out of time so what we\u0027re going to do is we\u0027re gonna mm-hmm a hackathon report and so I\u0027ll update the agenda so the transport presentation will start tomorrow session with the transport presentation and then proceed with the agendas as per me tomorrow so if anybody has not signed the blue sheet please do so otherwise we are done until tomorrow thank you "
  }
]