[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:35",
    "text": "how about well like this one is on now right okay it is 10 a.m. so it is time to start the NTP working group we have I can do with this or high tech alright so we\u0027ll go ahead and get started this is the NTP working group we have a minute taker thank you towel and we have a jabber scribe thank you rich this is the note well you will have agreed to it when you register for the meeting and it still applies if you have any questions feel free to ask us or the eighties so this is our agenda for the day we have and we\u0027re at the administer the agenda bassing portion of the session so this there have been a number of changes from what was posted into the data tracker so we have to go back and update that a little bit but there has already been some bashing today any other agenda bashing nope all right so the first thing on the agenda is a quick review of the NTP working group status for the documents that we won\u0027t be really discussing today the first thing is that since the last meeting we have requested publication of two of our drafts the one on ntp packet timestamps and the one on NTS so the network time security draft thanks to Brian Haberman we have the mode six commands draft has been resurrected and we\u0027re going to do a shepherd write-up on that we will do a really short confirmation on the mailing list but I believe the decision on this was to publish it as historic and so that will be the plan for that document any questions there okay the next one is the young data model this one is ready for working drug last call does anybody have any questions or comments on that we will get that working group last call out this week given the holidays and everything we will make it a three week working group last call and if you have any questions now would be a good time because the author is going to exit for another meeting shortly all right so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:37",
    "text": "there\u0027s no questions on that excellent and then the remaining document that we have that we won\u0027t be discussing more detail later today is the inter leave modes we did a working group last call on that and that is still to be resolved as to where we\u0027re moving with that document all right so additionally that we do have two documents that have been adopted since the last meeting and one is on rough time and the other one is on the Chronos work that Mehta was doing there are no updates for either of those so my request to the working group would be to start reviewing them so we have agreed to develop these two documents it\u0027s time to start making progress on them any questions on these two documents oh okay so at this point the next document in the queue was the port randomization draft and I know that there was an update to that I don\u0027t know we didn\u0027t actually receive slides from Fernando I know he\u0027s here but I don\u0027t think he\u0027s in the room so hard you don\u0027t think he\u0027s here why did I think he was here be online okay well in any event there has been a fair amount of discussion of this draft and it has been updated in advance of this meeting so I would direct you to the mailing list to discuss any further issues on it and next is on implementing time yes so this document sort of came out of a internship that intraoral did with enamelled loves to study the impact of vulnerabilities of ntp on DNA send in a check to do a impact study and we wish a few things which vulnerabilities that could have been mitigated within the dienes of hair itself so the applications did not use certain time "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:37",
    "text": "values correctly they did not choose the right clock to schedule periods basically this document is intended to give some guidelines in how to do this or two profiles inside in but different this is what I just told you so you see in the nest as the TTL for certain DMS record it\u0027s a period we call this relative time instead of a specific point in time which we call a absolute time and DNS software typically the not not visual for parody image by nine inbound antennas mask implemented this as taking the current world clock point of time and then adding the period to it and scheduling the expiry date for that point in time which made it fellow go for cash sticking attacks cash exploration attacks so that in the documents it\u0027s the scope is to explain what kind of methods there are to express time for applications or the absolute point in time versus their periods and the different clocks that are maintained by digital systems which may be used to deal with those different time mechanisms and what the trade-offs are between using the one or the other and that gives from guidance to help implementers make informed choices from the description in document on implementation approaches in a example you can get the different clock times with a perfect system and a business system so the research visuals that we did the impact study on DNS was first presented at the IP key two years ago here in Singapore at the ITF 100 at the same time we presented this draft trying to provide guidance to application implementers I think the written group was or wanted to work on this but then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:39",
    "text": "there was a sort of critique on the terminology used in the draft at that moment so we leave out the complete terminology and made it to restricted to be the bare minimum to describe a huge which was presented one year later at the ITF 103 in Bangkok and the I think was received well by the working group there were a few comments which I\u0027ve merged into the documents or addressed in the document which was presented at the last ITF in Montreal so this very are now ok so between the last meaning in this one we adopted this as a working group draft has anybody reviewed the draft that was published anybody either any folks I know that we are missing a number of our regular working group participants at this particular meeting are there anybody is there anyone in the room that\u0027s willing to commit to reviewing this draft there we go okay there\u0027s rich so we have three volunteers so excellent thank you very much social I submitted this a working group document now yes please so this is going to be a short review about what is accomplished within NTS at ITF 1.1 or Bundy started missing a cat once the first hackathon for for the NTS draft the first at that time it was there were only two the proof of concept implementation for Martin Allen from tenure function and we had been following hackathons in ITF 102 he skipped one Osby and the man of Abia of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:40",
    "text": "already had for implementation which proved into about interoperability doing the last two ITF meetings we had two mini hackathon so to speak that have been basically met not people who implement who did work on there : implementation of the NTS and this time Krista was there to prepare scripts for monitoring Santa\u0027s operation and to write somehow tools and service wise I\u0027ve tried to to compile the list of services NTS services already available and at this table you will see six available available NTS services the first one from the University of Australia which is basically Martin langa then CloudFlare who was the first to announce this actually and that net not who announced that recently at my place PDB we all all always also having a test bed currently running and the NTP SEC project has or also an t-sne identity service and there\u0027s also this NTP server in the last line which I know don\u0027t know which organization that is yeah these disturbances are basically some are only for testing purposes net node and anti-peace ik claims that something between testing and production if I I would be careful to use the word production before the craft is finalized actually but it\u0027s already quite stable service then this this is a table of github repositories which are available for in TS implementations and here are some more information about NTS some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:42",
    "text": "some blocks by martin longer or by cloud fair and not not how NTS is working and how to use it and also by one one document by the NTP say project in which they explain how to use an TS vista implementation so I hope that useful for those of you who want to do some testing or plan to work this NTS are there any questions I rich soils Akamai um is it premature to try to get this in the client-side into any of the Linux distros do you think into what any of the Linux distributions have they expressed interest or is it still too early do you think to pick up a client-side I suppose at least sent a s client is quite stable and the NTS part in the NTP SEC forchette this already part of self standard distribution so Webster there\u0027s guy from NTP sit down here who can elaborate on that hi my name is Sanjeev and to be sick the version which supports NDS is already in the Debian distribution and downstream of it as well it will be available in the new version will be available in 1900 in 2004 in Ubuntu as well I\u0027m not sure about fedora also has NTP SEC but their default client is Kony so I\u0027m not sure how many federal guys will install NTP SEC or dokoni also has NDS support so from the however this has to be enabled so just having 90s compatible client or server will not turn on NPS administrators have to step in able it any other questions did you know I have talked a little bit about ongoing activities to promote implementation and deployment so we initially look to the mailing list and as some of these solidify we will make announcements or point you to two appropriate directions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:49",
    "text": "so we put the NTP v 5 requirements on here as a discussion item what we currently have is a list of items in a wiki in the NTP wiki so I don\u0027t know some of the key folks that would help leave this conversation are not here this time so they I guess what my quite my my ask to the working group is if you go and you look at the NTP wiki supported by the IETF there is a number of NTP v4 issues that have been identified and so we haven\u0027t committed to doing an NTP v5 that would obviously require more conversation within the community but we are trying to gather the issues that we want to see solved and so that work has begun at some level and we should document it there so any questions or comments Thomas are here is there a time goal not yet it\u0027s really a we had been resisting it for a while I think we wanted to get into yes out the door and so I think in the next meeting or two well there is the there is a goal in a sense that we have been talking for quite a while about combining NTP and tik-tok and chartering a single time working group so that is something that that Suresh is smiling at me because we\u0027ve been talking about it for a while right so and I think the context of discussing that charter will also talk about a timeline but I think it\u0027s one of the challenges that I\u0027ve found over the years in this working group is there\u0027s a lot of you know a lot of folks will tell you what we should be doing but it\u0027s a real challenge to get people to step forward and write the documents and so developing a timeline for NT p v5 without people that are willing to actually write the documents is is a challenge so I you know I think at this point we\u0027re really trying to clear off all of our things that we haven\u0027t gotten done and get them out the door recharter and then talk about a timeline so but in the mean time I mean we had a fairly robust conversation on this in our last virtual interim and I think that doing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:50",
    "text": "that in the context of I think it would be helpful to do to have those conversations when you go ahead and begin pulling the pieces together identifying what we think we should solve and said shouldn\u0027t solve but there are a number of things that I think the other thing was there was a number of drafts that came through that the feeling was we kept trying to tweak things to fix them and before and the real answer was we just needed to move to a b5 and clean up some of the things that were causing us issues anyway so that work is beginning please look at the wiki and go from there any other questions on b5 this is going to be the fastest ntp meeting in history so go to the tick-tock working group status so as I mentioned there is a tick-tock working group and the plan for that initially was that\u0027s the wrong presentation you need to go the chair slides I believe it\u0027s the first time [Music] yeah there you go so the so the point the plan for the tick-tock working group was to finish the enterprise profile for the PTP and close that working group in the meantime Jose has has submitted an update of the draft that he had submitted previously unfortunately and I do apologize to him I didn\u0027t actually notice that that draft had been submitted until early this morning so I did not realize that there was updated draft to discuss so the status of the enterprise profile for PTP is that we have we need to get it resubmitted and then we need to do the Shepherd write-up for it so we have the XML for that and it\u0027ll be moving forward I\u0027ll talk a little bit in a few minutes about the status of PTP which is relevant to that first Enterprise profile so the second document that is on the tic-tock working group is Jose\u0027s and I noticed that you are online I don\u0027t know if you want to get in the queue to talk a little bit about what you\u0027ve done in this update and also notice that you have been having audio issues so that might not be possible "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:55",
    "text": "[Music] go ahead as I I has to say that my draft the update that we already done is we changed the format of the time we use now the dime Stang format of the NTP and we have to arrange the document this is a new word that we don\u0027t don\u0027t do for for the moment but we are working little slowly we have few or any comment for for the moment I appreciate that if there are some code the the central idea of the draft is to propose another kind of synchronization protocol different for NTP it\u0027s more intended to synchronize two end points we can synchronize several the end points also but the basis is different because we send a packet for a second is different from NTP and use this base on our filtering method we can reach more precision in the frequency and this is why trying to illustrate in the Nexus we we added and idea the central point with Antibes when you try to to get NTP server in some country like Latin America or Africa it\u0027s very difficult you are not 20 millisecond away you are normally fast and further than that this could be an option to make synchronization for clogs that the initial intention for was to make some measurements in one one wind delay in IPP working group and the IPP say me that tik-tok what is that a good group to present is rough this is why I am arriving to to this working group well this is a very fast resume for for the state design my sake thank you so as as he as Jose has indicated he is this is this is not ntp this is a different type of synchronization mechanism was originally targeted at the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:56",
    "text": "tic-tock working group I think at this point we would move it to the ntp working group but we wouldn\u0027t adopt it until we resolved the Charter issues they however there have been a number of updates and I think it would be helpful if if folks would give it a review it\u0027s only about 20 pages so it\u0027s not not too terribly long is there anybody that\u0027s willing to review this document couple of folks that were interested in it or not it not in the room are not in the room this morning so at that point thank you very much Jose and we will take this up at our next virtual meeting okay all right the last thing on the agenda is an update on 1588 I don\u0027t plan to go into a I guess I should do the so what I actually wanted to do is just talk really quickly about 1588 because we have been providing briefs over the course of time about the status of 1588 and in particular the security work in 1588 so the basic timeline for this activity so 1588 version 2 was published in 2008 and it included something called an XK the other thing you\u0027ll note is the 1588 nib that we previously published was for 1588 version 2 so in 2013 we started the par for the 1588 revision and in that context there was a security subcommittee that started working on it the basis of the work for that security subcommittee was the security requirements document that was developed here RFC 73 84 we had originally thought that the two solutions would be a little bit closer we had originally thought we\u0027d be able to reuse the two solutions between the two because there\u0027s still they\u0027re both both basically packet time synchronization protocols that seem like they were similar enough that we would be able to get some crossover that\u0027s not not where we ended up but there\u0027s always "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:56",
    "text": "hope for the future and just like in the last week or so the revision 1588 version 2.1 was approved for publication by the a triple-a standards board so it will be moving forward it\u0027ll be coming out probably in early 2020 so you keep a lookout for that so basically the security approach that we use that was used in 1588 was to include security and mechanisms and guidance that can be used together or in or individually and that the individual mechanisms would be optional and one of the real challenges was 1588 was the number of different because the constituents that would better so you have the telecom community the industrial automation community you have a number of different communities like that and they all have different perspectives on what their security solution should be and the mechanism would be provided and then the applications later it develops profiles and based on those profiles profiles is something that 1588 does in general it does tailoring of the protocol for the different communities based on using profiles and so the idea is that we would the same thing would happen for security is that that different communities would tailor them differently basically it is a multi-pronged approach which has integrated security mechanism which was added to version 2.1 an export external transport security mechanisms which was just some guidance talking about how external mechanisms that might already be in place could be used to help secure PTP architectural guidance and monitoring and maintenance so if you look at the document there\u0027s going to be a normative section an option that is normative at sixteen dot fourteen which is the mechanism itself and then there\u0027s an access which is all of the security material and so there is a a PPP packet there\u0027s a TLB that\u0027s been defined that includes the authentication top-4 for security it\u0027s been added to the PTP packet that\u0027s the rough idea of it right there there that all of the key management is currently left outside the scope of this document so there is some guidance on how to use Tesla and there\u0027s some guidance on how to use G DOI and they\u0027re used in different context for the two different approaches prong B is Mac second IPSec as the two external security mechanisms that we thought might might be present and then redundancy is all of the architecture guidance is provided and then finally monitoring and management guidance so all I really wanted to do here was to sort of point out that this work is ongoing it is kicking off now that version 2.1 has been published there is a plan to move forward and there is some thoughts of using NTS in some form where it would be able to be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "reused to help the 1588 security pieces so that was my quick update on 1588 since I\u0027ve been talking about it before siddhis Krishnan so uh the is idly expecting some kind of guidance from us for the use of IP ii stuff like that or they got it covered they\u0027re not actually expecting any guidance what the way that that particular that prong B was developed was two different communities came forward and said this is how we\u0027re using IPSec in the context of in the in that particular case it was that industrial automation types of applications so it wasn\u0027t so much how should it be used it was more like how how are the systems that we are currently deploying are using this technology now so and it\u0027s a really pretty lightweight section it\u0027s not providing a lot of specific guidance on how to use it as much as it\u0027s saying that there is probably security mechanisms that exist in your in your system and you need to think about a how they interact with your time synchronization because a lot of times folks deploy things and they don\u0027t think in the context of the impact that the security that exists all around it it has on the synchronization capabilities itself so so I thought it could be useful you know if I caught somebody from the city area to like take a look at it and see if there\u0027s something off but if like they don\u0027t want it it\u0027s fine no not at this point because it just got approved for publication I have run it by individual security experts in the IETF but I haven\u0027t run it through the security area officially because that\u0027s fine like it if we can help but right I would be glad to help but yeah that\u0027s fine yeah that\u0027d be great and in it as you know there are issues with the accessibility of this document yes um I could be a better so anyway that\u0027s all I really wanted to do is to provide you a quick snapshot we\u0027ve been talking about it previously and then also to point out that there is some thought about how NTS might be used in this context if you go back to some of the original documents around NTS we had a general NTS specification and the thought was the IETF would develop you know NTS for NTP and I Triple E would develop NTS for 1588 that\u0027s not where we ended up but I think there\u0027s moving forward there\u0027s still some places where we can reuse technology which would be really helpful so with that I think we\u0027re at the end of our agenda and quite possibly the fastest ntp meeting ever with area directors are happy about that the one thing I did want to talk about was virtual interns going forward we had planned last time to do two we managed execute on one I think virtual interims really helped us keep a pulse of getting our work done so given that we\u0027re coming up into the holidays we will probably be looking at one in early to mid January I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:03",
    "text": "think probably December is going to be a little bit too too early and there\u0027s a whole bunch of new documents that need review so please please PLEASE start reviewing these documents and comment on the mailing list and with that any other questions comments there you go we are adjourned "
  }
]