[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "let me try to get myself remember those like oh yeah I don\u0027t know hi I think I\u0027m terrible at that if I do it I\u0027ll mess it up I don\u0027t know what we need to we don\u0027t have we need really go either there that\u0027s good it\u0027s still doing school well it\u0027s PowerPoint that\u0027s why this thing they don\u0027t know time right I think if we\u0027re doing good shit oh my god oh no it\u0027s blank okay that\u0027s like every time why is it not page up page number I do not know I the one time I tried to mess with that I I got it where I kept on having to try okay alt down all right we\u0027re close but yeah but you did not be in that mode oh yeah I mean that\u0027s full page and then what if I do this is the page okay it works yeah okay let\u0027s not mess it up it\u0027s just we have well no we don\u0027t have Matt knows I have one lburrows me no I don\u0027t think so he is busy here I don\u0027t know if we need the slide I can talk to you can talk to it I I got I got it on my off [Music] see what we I got I got over to do that yeah chairs they yeah I got the chair stage so I can just I can just stop talk to it one Oh where\u0027d you go for that I went to ITF dot org slash about slash note well no no if I have if I have from between note and well yeah we\u0027re on the chair wearing the one from the chairs so we\u0027re fine should be the link from the chairs yeah there it is okay okay good you can talk to okay so this is the LS our working group we\u0027re gonna get started so the beginning is yeah so if you\u0027re not supposed to if you don\u0027t want LSR you\u0027re in the wrong place "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:05",
    "text": "you can\u0027t hear I say you do a Fermi Laporte subbu play before say so this is the note well we\u0027ve managed to find one I\u0027m not going to read all of that but it\u0027s important that you do okay I\u0027m sure you\u0027ve read it all by now oh it\u0027s so good I can\u0027t get rid of it not kidding there we go okay you wanna do you wanna incense no okay next slide we haven\u0027t had any RFC\u0027s I\u0027m gonna go kind of quick to leave room for the presentations we\u0027ve gotten a note from the RFC editor and all the segments routing drafts are are that it we\u0027re waiting on miss references are going to be published very soon I was hoping it would be before this meeting but it\u0027s not so well that\u0027ll be good to get these all published okay and in AD we still have this H bit support the host bitch support is care in here no well anyway uh trying to get the offers the primary offers to finish the response there was some confusion about Alvaro\u0027s comments not that\u0027s pending the yang data model for OSPF protocol we finished the 80 comments we\u0027ve had a ATF wide working with last call there\u0027s been some comments on a few more comments on the list and a few more Directorate reviews we were we had a we\u0027ve had multiple yang doctor reviews and luckily the last one we didn\u0027t hit anything new but we had we\u0027ve had some other reviews and there so there\u0027s some minor comments and things to answer before it goes to the iesg restart singling that\u0027s just recently been we just recently work requested publication so awaiting ad comments and this one this cross address "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:05",
    "text": "family traffic engineering since Alvaro is one of the primary offers when a co offers Martin is taking on a eighty review and it\u0027s and that has also gotten through most of the Directorate reviews we have completed working group last call on these we have to write up the Shepards reports the two and yeah let me say one more thing about these so these documents is you know we spend a lot of time in past years and so we gotta capture that discussion in summary and the Shepards reports and send it to the 80s baby finally I\u0027ll let you talked about this one yeah so we had we had a process fubar snafu whatever on the yang model for is is a I think if you remember a meeting or two ago we decided to do like OSPF first and then get the comments capture the comments and make adjustments to the eye size but then that sort of got the signals got crossed on that I don\u0027t know where where exactly those signals got crossed I might have been at eighty level might have been at working bubble so the AC of thinking that we had done a working group last column both submitted the is is but we have process wise we have not actually working group last called the ISI yang model so we are currently receiving 80 reviews on the is I see a model for processes sake we will be well working group last calling this document as well starting like today so this is first notice of the working group last call on the is is yang model will do a note to the list you know also sort of saying hey we\u0027ve got this backwards but other than that this has been around for a long time I don\u0027t think that we are going to get in too much trouble for having reverse the order on this this time okay we got both of these entropy label capability drafts we revised these to advertise per prefix capability and uh thanks to Peter and I did the OSPF I I don\u0027t know if he did the eius eius too but they\u0027re both they both reflect what or if Stefan did did one of them I don\u0027t remember yes definite one a Peter did one and now we\u0027re ready to working group last call them the one thing we do know do need our BG pls code points and rather than having a separate IDR draft we just just before this meeting I had some discussions with Kenton and he has agreed to add that to one of these drafts it will probably be OSPF because he works everyday with Peter and it\u0027d be just easier to do the same of course definitely working with us to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:06",
    "text": "pretty soon so anyway but so we should get those soon to working with last call next one we\u0027re gonna cover these what the flex algorithm it\u0027s gonna be covered today same with these yang models and these ones are let\u0027s see everything\u0027s covered today there hasn\u0027t been any activity on the I is is routing for spine leaf topology I\u0027ll check on that with will check on that with the offer see where they\u0027re going not too much on we need more discussion on the prefix originator and there\u0027s been some discussion on the PCE security capability I don\u0027t think it\u0027s not ready for word and Google last call yet though and that\u0027s it and I did it Tony\u0027s next right and if it\u0027s PDF Jim appellant Wong and no I\u0027m not gonna do the whole talking French my French isn\u0027t that good today\u0027s update is on dynamic flooding if you\u0027ve been following along we\u0027ve been having lots of discussions a lot of them went off list after Prague no joy next slide please okay so the issues that we did discuss in Prague do we want lands in the flooding topology and our conclusion was yes so that was accepted and that became part of the draft next question was how do we deal with temporary additions if the flooding topology partitions in some way we want to make temporary additions to it to restore the flooding topology so we can continue working and the agreement was that we have an implementation rate limiting of temporary additions okay we also had an interim meeting we had many discussions during that meeting the outcomes of that are pretty straightforward we\u0027re going "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:06",
    "text": "to advertise which links are in the flooding topology there are going to be bits in the link attributes sub TLV and link attributes Tod for OSPF and this is an equivalent to the FT bit that came from the CCL s are flooding Draft okay small bug fix in the flooding request TLV we listed a field as the circuit types field this caused some implementation confusion we really do mean it to be a bit mask of the levels it\u0027s not necessarily the same as the circuit types so if you send a flooding request on an l1 l2 circuit you don\u0027t have to say both l1 and l2 you could just say l1 okay so small clarification any questions on that okay next slide please let\u0027s see we did a small change to the area router ID TLV to try to compress it a little bit that was a little bit improvement in density we had a little language clarification if the area leader advertises a flooding topology then dynamic flooding is active if the area leader does not advertise a flooding topology then dynamic flooding is disabled and legacy flooding should be used okay that\u0027s probably obvious but we just wanted to be explicit and clarify that one addition if you have an area you may find that you may want to have a backup area leader this is not explicitly denoted by anything it\u0027s obvious from the area leader election who who the second node would be and we explicitly allow that area leader that backup area leader to also advertise a flooding topology this helps against the case where there is a failure in with the area leader it simplifies and smooths out the transition between the two flooding topologies and let\u0027s see we welcome Cuomo Chen as a co-author to the draft the FT bit and some of the other stuff that we took from his draft this is now incorporated so we\u0027ve added him as a co-author one thing I forgot to put on the slides we did do some work on a yang model for this we did not get anything ready to present in time for this ITF our apologies we are looking for more volunteers who want to work on yang please see me if you are interested we think that this draft is now pretty well cooked some of us are trying to get this code ready to ship we\u0027re going to ask "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:08",
    "text": "one last time for early allocation this is our third request I mean I think we\u0027re all ready for that this is especially now that there isn\u0027t any contention on the base and coatings is there anything else I have to do pretty please [Music] and that\u0027s all I have any questions thank you okay yeah that was a pretty successful outcome of the interim you didn\u0027t have a lot of contention before that happened everything\u0027s all good now so I think we mo might be up next right so we\u0027re gonna probably may stumble yeah do we have a meet echo support person no so we\u0027re gonna I\u0027m hoping that let me put my most presentation up yes hey can ya yeah we can all see you emo in the on one of the screens here and I\u0027ll pull your presentation up now I think so can you hear me yes look great it\u0027s this one fucking apology computation yes alright we know can you see your site as well yes yes very very clear okay excellent take over hello everyone today I\u0027m look why don\u0027t we go fishing I\u0027ll go so let\u0027s page so this version of sling slot in commodity competition are cold so basically everything is a little bit related to rhythm we degree or so for a lot in topology so the lump of relations is the degree of that amount for example for this Dragon Ball T our work with our one has two connections on the flooding object "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:08",
    "text": "so our while Steven Lee is - for more on zero it has three connections on the flooding topology so is degree the degree of our are zero in three so for each load we have a degree of a front of our G the degree of CO 400 more G is the maximum degree of all of the nodes of degree so for example for this from our following apology the degree of this flood in the body is sweet because the maximum degree among all other nodes is so next page so the basic idea of why didn\u0027t want commutation is that we started from a load with ammo which is the smallest of the load I denote as a gold and then a Buda a tree using this our job as a road racer first strategy and then we can equal no goat whose degree is a one to another note to the front wall to the foreign topology where were Dubuque and then we have a flat in topology in which Evernote connects at the visa to close so do this computation where were considered degrees on fog in topology so that\u0027s the addition to the previous version so next page so here we have a some kind of foreign technology examples computed by a novel so for each of these topology the Morrigan topology computed here using examples have the degree of flood poverty extreme but for London topology the Evernote and the commodity had at least two connections so the Florin topology can tolerant for any one NECA figures on the flooding technology so next page so here we just take a one simple example of a wagon horse computation so we go through the detail steps just get some idea about of their details ornamentation so we consider five nodes flush the black metal and then based on visitor topology we usually our algorithm to compute a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:09",
    "text": "flagon apology so initially we started with candidate Q which is equal for short seek you can take one no the road are German these are zero with degree in zero and any previous hope the front over the visa recently and then we have a maximum degree given desta as conditional constrain it is three so the first establish establish that we just remove the row or juror from the candidate queue and then put a data our journal to the flooded and then for each load connect it with Arturo we add those note into the CQ so in this property and then we were other r1 r2 r3 and r4 into the capital Q and it is favored one way we will remove remove the first node which is our woman so our wives previous row R 0 R 0 degrees zeros so we can add big R 1 R R 0 into the Friant of origin so after we add R 1 to R 0 into the foreign apology so we will update the candidate list or each load connected to R 1 here we have R 2 R 3 R 4 commanded to r1 which is not out of 140 Caesar those are 2 R 1 R 2 R 3 R 4 already in the candidate list in this case we just add r1 as a new previous hall into the - three - on the site and over add r1 to the Ares tribute hop and so on then we come to the second is so it is Stella - we will remove r2 from CQ so these are on r0 have equally over to a 1 so we can add R 2 and R 0 this leak into the flooding of origin and then we will a curated the Canada to queue we see the nodes r3 and r4 which connect to the r2 so in this case because update the previous hope of archery and Artois in the C key and then the last one and step three is that we can add a sweetie and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:14",
    "text": "I\u0027ll throw this link into the flood and apartment because right now our two degrees - so you still Western maximum degree we\u0027re given is which is three so we had a are three and ours 0 this link into the apology so after this one and then we also updated their candidate queue and then we come to the stable for at stay before we remove our four from CQ right now our four have a previous 4 r0 r1 r2 and so on because all those degrees all these three so we can order ethylene the people I for now 0 but we have privet over r1 I was degrees is 1 so we can link between our for and r1 into London apology so we can add this linger into the front abortion so at this point we have a pewter a tree on flooding apologies so next page so for for this plan we just connect Evernote degrees one to another node and then the stereo five so the first note we still with degree one is a no I - so our our - we will find a note a find the link between our two an acyl note so right now what thumb is that the link r2 and r3 will be added to the fallen apology because r3 has been among degrees so we were editing our 203 into the flooding apology so after this step 5 and then we only care for our 4 we will have our 4 has 1 1 degrees with so in this case well we will find big return r4 + r2 because our r2 has a minimum degree and also minimum node IDs so after this step and then we have a collaborative orgy his flooded hopper G the degree 3 and then Evernote has connected to at least the to know sorrowful an apology so next next page so here so previous we just go through for example get some idea was at a detail of algorithm so here is some kind of a more formal descriptions about a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:17",
    "text": "chrism so this algorithm start from a node R 0 as I wrote and then this a wrote will have a minimum of smallest node IDs some systems make that and then we were given a maximum degree and then we will have a kind the queue initially and Canada were only contain is a Al Jarreau as a as a as a vote and then we start with the empty lot in topology and then this one would give more details about this one harder with the road again usually the degree of Archer is 0 and then the previous host of Arcturus is empty so next phase so from that standpoint again we just go through several steps in this algorithm so basically first super one is that we move finer and remove an element from a candidate the queue and then stop satisfy some conditions such as we should have a one of his previous halt that his prints for the degree business is less than the man some a degree so we find that pattern admin and then remove that element from a candidate list then I had that one into the for an apology and then we thinned the Kaneda to kill hazardous vapor one so stable to give up the more details about hallway you submit the cannibal queue so due to that better know the way we moved from from Canada queue and there you were data node is no longer candid with you and then we just add that nobody in the kinetic you even I don\u0027t know that is already in the kinetic view and then we can stir updated the previous hope so that\u0027s the way updated the kinetic you so even we order those on the forgotten apology and then that we are go to the right step which is a connector every node whose degrees one to another node sorry that we have a following topology in which every node has at least two connections on the photic of origin and then we have a weather of the hot water we have so nice page so we welcome your comments and also I think we can like to request that option so I haven\u0027t questioned no Cummins this is a seal indem ah is there any IPR on this idea I think there might be IPR before you know at some point that from some from way back but because Brett because a lot of people have said that we should do it first on based on you know the degree and now this actually formalizes with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:21",
    "text": "the algorithm to do it based on degree so I\u0027m wondering if anybody\u0027s knows of IPR on this yes yes yeah well away won\u0027t disclose of the iPad to remind of it that\u0027s good yeah yes the other question is I read it I think you need to describe the usage of previous/next top better in the drought maybe even have some of these pictures if you could I mean I know it\u0027s hard with ASCII art but it\u0027s hard time hard to understand it and maybe I didn\u0027t put enough time into it but I understood it better this time with the pictures and I didn\u0027t when I first read it that\u0027s my mom yeah I Tony Lee Arista when we first established the dynamic flooding draft we didn\u0027t issue an IPR statement I\u0027m not a lawyer I can\u0027t tell you whether covers this or not okay but it was Tim the light I care a statement on gameplay now everybody\u0027s got my PR on Dinah flooding so I\u0027m not trying to block a and I\u0027m just trying to have your lawyers gonna look at patent application it was it was it a rest of it you did yeah do you know that do they have like a friendly the language is taken from other IPR disclosures that says basically don\u0027t see us and we won\u0027t sue you okay good and we were said that very pointedly directing it to the east of us okay claim oh thank you very much for the present that helped myself and my colleagues looked at your draft very carefully and scratched our heads and and we were very disappointed that you are not here to discuss it with us you really want to understand this and we\u0027re not quite there yet is really the intent here the primary crux of the algorithm to be breadth-first search yes we base our search computed the property may also come considered the amateurs of a single bathroom a way to get a good habit so as I believe it that\u0027s just a one pergola right now okay so anything you can do to help clarify the presentation of the algorithm would be very helpful to us we we\u0027re not there yet second have you done anything in your algorithm to constrain the diameter of the flooding topology good we didn\u0027t see "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:39",
    "text": "anything in there that would ensure that you didn\u0027t have a ballooning diameter and that would be suboptimal maybe we just don\u0027t understand yet maybe we can our reward and to see what can one we will have for the parameters okay thank you okay good I think you know we\u0027re gonna discuss this a lot more on the list and I\u0027d like to encourage that in interest of the time we\u0027ll like to get to the next one after Alvaro talks next personalization I\u0027ll order thunder rolling just a quick commercial that\u0027s all of you are probably aware we have a new format for the RFC\u0027s and so you can now put actual art pictures so you can look at as SBG graphs I think so you\u0027re come into the Oh maybe figures in there will be nice I think this would be a great opportunity to have this trap the Version three of the artisan just and I love ASCII art too though so I like if you if you can\u0027t manage to do the topology or it\u0027s not clear and it would be much clearer with graphics then yeah you do have the ability to use SVG and RFC\u0027s I don\u0027t know if that\u0027ll be required or not but the takeaway I think we know is yeah it would be great if you could put some of the things you have in this presentation and maybe even some more pictures they help a lot I think that would call for adoption let\u0027s do another round on this I don\u0027t think anybody has any objections to this you know it\u0027s looking good but there are some open questions let\u0027s work on that and make sure that we address the questions like the diameter and stuff like that and as long as nothing pops out that looks strange I don\u0027t see why the working group wouldn\u0027t want to adopt something like this okay so we\u0027re gonna move to the next graphic the next presentation oh thank you we will okay yeah so I so we have a couple of presentations coming up with the just want to explain something on these so we have a proposal about flooding speed advertisement that was put forward by Bruno in a draft there\u0027s some how we got a scheduled for a bottle coming this is sort of interesting to me because it happened to me the first time that I presented in is is about twenty years ago or something I I got a surprise "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:40",
    "text": "presentation that came up right after me thinks Tony leap had Hank Schmitt come up and tell everyone why the thing I just presented was useless so I just realized that this was a little payback I guess but it was totally not I didn\u0027t realize that there hadn\u0027t been anything discussed between the two groups before this presentation was put on there anyway nothing is being decided here right so this is just a presentation there will be a presentation following Bruno\u0027s where there there\u0027s sort of addressing and disagreeing with some of the points you\u0027re about to see but again nothing is being decided here and Bruno sent us something he\u0027s not had a chance to really go over that presentation so he felt a little bit like hey I would have liked to have seen this before I presented so I could have maybe addressed these points I\u0027m sympathetic to that like I said twenty years ago the same thing happened to me and I didn\u0027t like it it might cook it if it doesn\u0027t work and no okay I\u0027m gonna okay so hello I\u0027m Bruno from our engine I\u0027m going to talk about drive to improve flooding speed so just to try Phi it\u0027s just about communication speed between two two neighbors it\u0027s not competing with proposal radio sings of routing a topology or graph so next one please so as an instruction it\u0027s probably well known to everyone but still flooding is a very important for link state I GP if you slow flooding a hit directly translate to a slow reaction to failure so packet loss and so it\u0027s translated to LSD be inconsistency and routing is inconsistency and you have a chance to have my groups unfortunately a footing is odd you want to be fast to have you our database instinct especially in case of a single node failure which is just one failure but for links that IGP translating into multiple messages so it could be an ax and could be a 10 20 depending on your topology so you need to be able to fast through the 10 or 20 SPD messages quite fast just for single node failure at the same time you need to be slow in order to not overload your adjustment neighbor so it\u0027s enough to to not overload your neighbor because flooding is a up by up so you\u0027re just sending message to your neighbor so it\u0027s between two adjacent neighbor next a slight kiss so so what is the status in Isis we don\u0027t have any signaling to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:40",
    "text": "control the fruiting speed on the current status in term of implementation is that the fruiting speed is a very very conservative so default delay between sending two consecutive SPD is something like 33 milliseconds or 100 milliseconds which is about 30 packets per seconds hundred kilo bits whenever if you compare a ring to to the same control planes bidding a speaking BGP over TCP on to some implementations a BGP policy is set to 20,000 packet per circle which is a 200 megabits so it\u0027s 1,000 faster so the goal is not to go to 1,000 faster but there is room for improvement and finally we have the same flooding speed for the last 20 years even so even though the CPE on interfaces speed up improve so it probably shows that something is missing so next one please so the proposition is it\u0027s very simple it\u0027s just one TLV to be able to advertise your own capability to receive SPD\u0027s message messages to your upstream neighbors so I entered on screen I am capable of receiving eyes--eyes LSPD you were to a certain speed and I advertised that capability to my upstream routing never so Y arrow again because we are just discussing between adjacent neighbors so that\u0027s all when children arrows lights okay next thank you so actually we advertised true parameters in such l visa we try to to be aligned with existing implementations in order to to to to make it simpler and to increase the likelihood on a speed of deployment so we have two parameters next with Pisa so the first parameter is called it\u0027s caused is called minimum interface LSP transmission interval so the name is long but it\u0027s only the delay in milliseconds between two consecutive areas PDU so it\u0027s nothing you it\u0027s a parameter which is available in all existing implementation so sometimes it\u0027s called LSP interval some some time it\u0027s where LSP base interval sometimes karelis PT X in tower something so nothing new in term of fruiting and that parameter is akin to a CPU or processing performance so basically you commit that you\u0027re capable of in average processing some LSP you per minute per second so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:40",
    "text": "for example Sochi next column second parameter is the ability to to send a burst of consecutive LSPD you so you okay excuse you say I agree that you can send me a purely speedy you back-to-back if you want up to n n LSP deal it\u0027s less popular in term of imitation but there are implementation it\u0027s called a fast-food risible on one implementation on and so many implementation of a DDoS filtering to to limit the amount of packets that you can receive to avoid leaders so that parameter is akin to a memory buffer so you can keep in memory a few SP before processing it so that\u0027s all know so that\u0027s all to two parameters in one chill V there is a smaller or refinement is that actually for fast fluid we say it\u0027s a it\u0027s a number of non acknowledge LSPD you not only the number of a speedy you that you can send in bursts so next one so with that precision we can go even more precisely to our flow control because i size does have a mechanism to acknowledge the reception rate speedy you basically using a PS NP on one point two point interfaces so ISS can already advertise the reception or acknowledge the reception of each SD on with that we have a dynamic flow controller if you want so with two two parameters the one which is a sizable burst so the memories that you can have which is a static transmission window so remember it remember static transition window will have a test in a few minute and then we have a x SN p or p SN p which sell that as denominational acknowledgements so you can acknowledge that you have removed an SPD you outside of your buffer next one please so in summary we want to improve ICS communications penis off-roading speed we are authorizing - static parameters from the done string reading never up to the extreme pruning never so point-to-point on these two parameters match existing implementation at least for the first one on partially for the second one the next one so with that single glv the upstream can do different kind of behaviors up to him so the first kind of behavior is to coordinate on CSD pacing so that one is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:40",
    "text": "very easy to do because it\u0027s already available on all implementation but with with the extension you you agree with your neighbor on all fast you can process at a speedy LSPD you and even with that single limb improvement it can be significant in real life because I think everyone will agree that routing speed is very very conservative currently so can behavior that you can do is to allow sending a burst a very speedy you which is very useful for on link node failure because in term of if you have a single node failure it translated in l n LSP to be to be free there so it\u0027s good to be able to advertise quickly that when one node has been removed from the top regime and also possibility open by that new TLV if you have dynamic flow control which will be a significant improvement compared to a static SP SP by things that we have today but any of those improvement is its local to the upstream fooding level the only things that is a monetary is that gel V that is being sent from the downstream coding never and that\u0027s or any comment I have a fella BIOS very clear so I have a couple of questions why did you use the term upstream several times can you come greedy it doesn\u0027t sound like you\u0027re coming over the mic I don\u0027t know is it is it not okay so we use the same upstream pruiting on downstream treating the issue is that at the beginning we use the sending rotor on the receiving route but there are two sending autos the one sending that Silvie on the one sending ZL SPD so it was not very clear just did you should put that in the draft because you know we have one definition of upstream and downstream for MPLS label assignment we have another one for multicast and so in the context it\u0027s not okay so in general the reserved stream is that there\u0027s a one-cent exhibit don\u0027t string so but the packet is the LAPD you in in my case in the case of my size should you maybe do it 100 microseconds or something else because millisecond means you can only do one per millisecond which means a thousand per second depend on your birth size but it\u0027s still limits and you just said that BGP does 3000 per second so maybe the you know let\u0027s not stick to millisecond because everyone let\u0027s use a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:42",
    "text": "number that makes sense I think Zack same comment when I read through it I thought but the bits and the tlb are pretty cheap you could just make it\u0027s 32-bit instead of 16-bit and called microseconds whatever I feel really thank you for documents we already receive determine by email it was a bit too late to change the draft but I agree that many seconds could be limiting in the future even though it would be already happy if we could reduce up to 1 millisecond but you\u0027re right absolutely Thank You Josie so to my memory are flooding as today\u0027s cup of an instance right either it\u0027s applicable to instance you are moving in yes sir adjacency if you have 10,000 audiences and everybody signal different interval you\u0027ll have to create state or adjacency it will create some problem what what problem so today you generate updates if you don\u0027t you send them in same place everybody right here you are introducing or adjacent system you really have implementations which have LSP pacing per interfaces so it\u0027s nothing really new it\u0027s already uh I don\u0027t know for all implementation okay I don\u0027t want to give their names but yes ok so now I guess we\u0027ll take the remaining I was willing to let that run over as far as it wanted to go now I guess less is going to present his opinion along with ACS and Peters on this work [Music] Bruno did not get to view this house or um why we\u0027re bringing the slides up I just like to make the point that Bruno and I actually do talk to each other and I\u0027d like to think we\u0027re not enemies so even though I\u0027m gonna disagree with some of the things he said there has been a fair amount of communication no well no disagreement okay next slide so just a very quick review of what Burroughs just presented I took some poetic license here and I changed the names that you have in the draft just to emphasize the point that what\u0027s being specified in the new TLV is from the point of view of the receiver so this is the the minimum interval in which I would like to receive felis B\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:43",
    "text": "the minimum int well in which I would like the minimum burst that I would like to receive and this can potentially be adjusted dynamically although I believe there\u0027s language in the draft that says it\u0027s not a good idea to do this too often okay next slide so here\u0027s what we agree on we definitely agree that flooding at least as it\u0027s been defined historically and and defaults in most implementations is much too slow for for modern networks so we agree that we want to allow for the capability to flood much faster than we do by default today but we also agree that doing so entails some risk and therefore we want to have some means of flow control next slide here\u0027s what we disagree on the the essence of the draft is to send parameters that control the state per interface I think this is related to the point that Jeff was asking about it isn\u0027t the value that you want to use for flooding is not a a per interface value and I\u0027ll go into a little more detail here the second point is the draft specifies the flow control should be managed by the receiver and we believe it should be managed by the transmitter next slide so flooding is part of what allows you to achieve Network wide convergence just as we do with SPF intervals if you configure vastly different SPF intervals on different nodes the convergence behavior their network is going to suffer because some portions of the network are going to converge significantly faster than other portions of the network same thing is true with flooding because if I run my SPF but the information I\u0027m running my SPF on is doesn\u0027t match that of my neighbors then I\u0027m going to come to a different conclusion I\u0027m going to temporarily install different routes in the for any plane and are going to be vulnerable to loops and black holes and so forth so we strongly believe that the the value that you want to use for pacing your LSP flooding needs to be a network-wide parameter not a pretty interface parameter next slide this is I did some archaeological research here back in ISO 10 589 there\u0027s actually some language in 10 589 that reinforces this point that the language here specifies that the this was talking about the retransmit timer the retransmit timer is per LSB but it\u0027s not per LSB per interface it\u0027s simply per LSB so if I need to read transmit an LSB then I want to do so at the same time on all of the interfaces on which I have yet to receive an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:43",
    "text": "acknowledgment I don\u0027t want to tune this to a per interface value this maximizes the possibility that all the nodes in the network are going to converge on the same LSB database in a more consistent manner next slide receiver given flow control the ability of a node to decide gee you know I\u0027m I\u0027m I\u0027m getting things too fast for whatever reason my CPU is overloaded my plan Q from the data plane is overloaded but whatever the reason may be many implementations implements an LSP input Q is simply a FIFO not a pretty interface FIFO but just well no matter what interface ie I got this in on I\u0027m gonna stick it into a queue and when I get around to processing that queue I\u0027m gonna process them first in first out so if that queue which oftentimes is bounded if that kid gets overloaded okay it\u0027s an indication that I\u0027m getting swamped but who\u0027s wanting me unless I actually go through and process the LSPs in the input queue I can\u0027t figure out who you know which of my neighbors might be the one who\u0027s sending stuff to me too fast and in addition you know based on the points you know we made in the previous slides I don\u0027t really want to have a per interface you know a slower rate on one interface and a faster rate on another interface so the rationale for saying I want to advertise a slower rate to this one neighbor but allow the faster rate to some other neighbor is both a problem from an implementation standpoint it is not the behavior we want in order to optimize Network convergence I mean just make clear you\u0027re making a point based on assumptions about implementation you\u0027re saying I don\u0027t know who sends it to me because my implementation uses a single FIFO LSP queue I mean so yes for an implementation that uses a single white ball in a input queue for LSPs this is not easy careful not a good solution but it\u0027s not that doesn\u0027t mean that for all implementations of is is this is this is hard to identify who\u0027s sending you the speeds so I\u0027m not necessarily going to disagree with you there\u0027s a number of points being made here and I think one of the points is there are implementations that do this more than one from my personal experience that doesn\u0027t mean all implementations do this and there are some good reasons for an implementation to implement it this way "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:43",
    "text": "so you know you might want that implement your application that you know when you chose to do the single FIFO you didn\u0027t have something you know there were different considerations you know I could counter by saying if I do this per interface now I got to come up with a fairness algorithm anyways let\u0027s not debate that the second point I want to make about receiver driven flow control well actually actually sorry can you go back one slight I may have missed something here yeah yeah yeah so descending of the the updated receive interval is essentially an out-of-band signaling mechanism okay I you know I detect the condition where I want to tell you know one or more of my neighbors to slow down I\u0027m doing this at a time when I\u0027m very busy if I\u0027m very busy it\u0027s quite likely that my neighbors are very busy and at this point in time I now have to send additional BTUs okay no words for this to be effective I can\u0027t wait 10 seconds until my next hello interval you know that\u0027s going to let the condition persist for much longer than I would like so I\u0027ve got to introduce extra processing both for myself and for my neighbors precisely at the time when everybody\u0027s the most busy which to me is a disadvantage next slide this obviously depends on some protocol extensions so it\u0027s not going to be effective if I send this but my neighbor doesn\u0027t support it so I have to wait for everybody to upgrade to get the maximum benefit out of this if you do this in a brown field you\u0027re not gonna get the full benefit next line so what should we do okay ice ice 101 what do we do we when we have a Nellis beat to sin we mark it with a send routing message bit and the SRM bit and I\u0027m talking here strictly about point to point we know broadcast interfaces work a little bit differently but for the purposes of this discussion I think we can stick to point to point the SRM stays set until we actually get into an acknowledgment on that particular interface the retransmit timer will fire and we will resend any LSB that has been unacknowledged from the transmit side I know how many LS B\u0027s that I have for a particular interface that I have sent that I have not received acknowledgement for I have all of that information okay and when I have that information I don\u0027t particularly care why the LSB was not acknowledged does my neighbor was my neighbor does he not have enough CPU time it is received "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:45",
    "text": "you through small did he have problems in the punt path I don\u0027t care all I know is that I need to be retransmitting and I\u0027ve got all the information to tell me how big the retransmit Q is so using this information I can do flow control from the transmit side I don\u0027t need any protocol extensions I don\u0027t need any extra signaling from my neighbor next slide if this is just one potential algorithm it\u0027s not an algorithm that I\u0027m intending to you know to say this is the best or the only or whatever but basically you you set an upper bound for your unacknowledged LSPs on a particular interface when you hit that limit then you slow down the rate at which you send Alice B\u0027s to that neighbor and you persist in doing this until the number of unacknowledged Ellis piece goes below some safe limit then you go back to your your default setting when this condition occurs I think this condition should be logged because as we discussed before we want to have the consistent flooding rate on all the interfaces in the network so that we can get the optimal convergence and if you have a node that is consistently not able to keep up then the convergence in your network is going to suffer and you need to let the operator know so the operator can decide what does he want to do about this you know does he have an underpowered node does he have a miss configuration that\u0027s causing you know too much traffic to go to this node what does he want to do does he want to slow down the rate across the whole network you know he\u0027s got many choices and we need to let him know that this condition is is occurring next slide so there\u0027s a bunch of things in this space that actually have been done and are out there fast floodings been around for close to 20 years as part of fast flooding or fast convergence I should say it\u0027s part of that and we have some kind of fast flooding knob that says before you actually start your SPF send a bunch of LS B\u0027s to your neighbors so that we can speed up the propagation of LSPs through the network so we increase the probability that when everybody runs the next the SPF they actually have all of the updated LSB database yep am i running out of time okay so it was just the point on the slide there\u0027s a number of things have been done people are actually flooding faster than 33 milliseconds they\u0027ve been doing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:46",
    "text": "so successfully I haven\u0027t heard about any problems with that so it isn\u0027t like we have just been able to turn this on and it doesn\u0027t work it does work next slide so what should we do we should encourage vendors to increase the flooding rate we need to emphasize the point that this neat this is a network-wide parameter not a per interface parameter use the TX base flow control we don\u0027t believe we need protocol extensions do we need a BCP draft if it was up to me probably not but I can I can be convinced so I think a lot of good work can be done on this I don\u0027t think that anybody has the right answer yet I I would also like the whole comments quickly of whoever heard of receiver based flow control what a crazy idea right or out of been signaling RTS CTS I think it\u0027s not crazy to want to do receiver side flow control but that said I mean I think you have some valid points that need to be discussed like the different types of you know you see if you\u0027re floating at different rates on different interfaces you\u0027re getting you know thing that again though that one could argue both ways right because as long as you get flooding is about getting it everywhere as fast as possible so if it\u0027s not going fast on this interface maybe it\u0027s going fast on another interface so I\u0027m not sure if that\u0027s a big deal whatever we can discuss that on the list as well but so it\u0027s good to have I think to two points here though you\u0027ve got a good point about hey I\u0027ve got retransmits I can do trans transmission side flow control that way I think that the other other authors have a good point about maybe we need to look at receiver size I don\u0027t know if this is you know I wish this would have happened on the list first right like that why are we doing why didn\u0027t these comments come out after the draft was published I\u0027m not attacking you I\u0027m just I think that would have been a better way to approach this in the presentation it all happens very quickly but around the draft cutoff times so well but there was time too together a presentation right and there\u0027s no mailing list cutoff time to be perfect yeah so too many drops too little time overall I largely agree with lasts long experience the different rate to cause a transient on the network is very pronounced in sparse network the denser the networks get the less that is an issue you actually flip it to the other side so the per node behavior is largely an artifact of a very very old spec that has been a little bit too specific now to implement these things right so if you have dense networks and with modern techniques the per interface is doable so depend which you know which part which part of the design space you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:48",
    "text": "eat the constant rate indicated per second is definitely not enough things change very very quickly and let\u0027s give you a large part of the solution you should basically look on the sender more on the losses that is a much simpler ticket and don\u0027t ramp up too aggressively I mean you have it slightly hidden right like don\u0027t be too optimistic when things go well but you can also know where you don\u0027t have enough throughput when you want to really bump up there it\u0027s also very good to keep for that so I agreed BCP is probably all we need a lot of these techniques are only around and roughly what last chest is practically very doable I would only need agree of the peri interface I\u0027ll cooperate defense especially on their on the on the dense networks because then the slowest receiver starts to actually choke you if you have a lot of interfacing the slowest guys can climb sit down on flooding speed okay I think that there\u0027s a reason for a draft no matter what our resolution is because while you said that yes people might be violating in a 33 millisecond it is a violation of a standard and you can and so you can give into these realms where you get operators who run a test that says I\u0027ve used you know standard right and if you say look you\u0027re sending it faster than 33 and then you have to do with justification words if you have a document we can point out saying the 20 years later we think we can send that past 133 so we\u0027re revising the standards and I\u0027ll be so so one archaeological point if you actually look at 10 589 the 33 millisecond is specified only for broadcast interfaces yeah there is no statement for point-to-point because you can blast things as fast as you want and it\u0027s expected layer 2 is expected to take care of that yes Chris power is with juniper could you go back a few slides because I\u0027m most of your arguments are fairly superficial and inconsistent with one another don\u0027t don\u0027t hold back Chris so you say updating hello is dynamically to alter flooding transmission rate is an out-of-band signaling mechanism consuming resources at the time when routers are the most busy mmm but but you also did read the text in here that says these should not be updated very often and in fact there\u0027s texas has basically do it at configuration time do you\u0027ll see do not it would be a bad idea to adjust these advertised values as a function of cpu load so are you saying the intent from your mind of the draft is simply to set these once from the receive end and not to change them how do you feel about that it doesn\u0027t change my point of view but it does mean that if you\u0027re yes if you\u0027re not going to do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:49",
    "text": "dynamic signaling then this point is moot just one second let\u0027s no more people at the line after the last person I agree that we want for convergence reasons for things to converge informally absolutely I don\u0027t think the right answer is to slow everything down to the least cannot comment and that was not the point I was trying to make and to do that we actually have to have real active flow control and that kind of applies we have to have a control okay and way first do that patrol loop receiver has to give you some feedback on the state of the control so now I\u0027m going to disagree with some of my co-authors here and say no actually those numbers need to change and they need to change pretty rapidly it looks just like a TCP received window okay that\u0027s that\u0027s lesson solution right watch the drops no no - I agree with Tony at this point that the problem is TCP is a point-to-point connection that\u0027s not what we\u0027re talking about here we\u0027re talking about flooding network-wide no no I\u0027m saying a TCP connection is between node a and node B wherever however many hops they\u0027re separated in the network you\u0027re controlling the flow between these two endpoints only that\u0027s not what we\u0027re trying to do with flooding we\u0027re trying to get the flooding out to the whole network as fast as we can as consistently as we can from the point A to point B and you know neighbor to neighbor and use the bandwidth that we\u0027ve got and use the CPU power we\u0027ve got so it seems like the way to do that is to have a local control loop running as quickly as possible now I\u0027m gonna again go out on a branch and say I disagree with my co-authors I think that this TOB should also be in the PSN peek packet okay so now when the LSP receiver has processed part of its input queue it can now send upstream say okay I\u0027ve both just this much here are all the things that I\u0027m a key and oh by the way here\u0027s why how much buffer space I\u0027ve got left now that could be less than what has already incent so that\u0027s also thinking about the positive and negative reinforcement to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:50",
    "text": "the transmitter thank you so again this is very interesting I want to point out I know we\u0027re out of time but you raising the point about point-to-point not having anything said about it in the ISO standard is I think why we\u0027re here because it was they were literally relegating this to the l2 and they were saying send it as fast as you want right and lt will take care of you and it isn\u0027t for us right and now we\u0027re here trying you know from both sides on the transmit or receive we\u0027re saying how can we speed this up because we\u0027ve been using this broadcast minimum on the on the point-to-point link it\u0027s interesting I just want to point out that OSPF is it we\u0027ll discuss this more in the list OSPF has never had anything mandated it\u0027s all been implementation to send it to you I don\u0027t disagree but I disagree that we need to show that the same speed for for oranges or all neighbors I could find it\u0027s not work but we kind of hang some produced Aquino\u0027s like it\u0027s better to first trust in the ends of two issues is to delay series initially because the utility has to be fluid HDPE which are out of sea food good mmm we just want to fast we can be fast in different delay the point I want to emphasize is you and I fundamentally agree flooding is much lower than it needs to be today there\u0027s no disagreement about that now the the point I want to make is that flooding is an is a network-wide parameter if I fled slow on the way it worked I guess if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:28",
    "text": "everyone\u0027s gonna be here for the second session if we have you know when we run out of time later tonight we can all just sit around and talk about this very quick I\u0027m coming in quite cold to this oh no no no SPF for a sexpert but I understand both sides points I think you have different into the same stick here you want to say solve the same problem and I think you give that thought either the sender could monitor acknowledgment or Foe controller or the receiver can provide feedback or perhaps both I think one thing that gets missed and you\u0027re conflating two points one is how do we control the point-to-point controlling rate and the other point which you keep coming to quite elegantly is in a link state routing protocol the critical thing is about the consistent view of the link state database across the entire network so if you want to speed up the propagation of that link state across the entire network that\u0027s almost a different parameter and needs a different method of speeding up than just great controlling your point winning they\u0027re both important and 33 minutes milliseconds is too old a number that\u0027s something that there\u0027s those two points for you can\u0027t separate them okay okay it\u0027s on it\u0027s gonna go next we do have a plan for catching back up part of it is Tony had originally asked for five minutes for these and we gave ten so any any fee for each of them any help you can give us the other thing is we can push Peters last presentation to the next session because we we only have 45 minutes allocated in the next session so Tony\u0027s gonna talk fast all right I\u0027ve got two updates for you topology transient zones area abstraction and hierarchical ISS next slide please okay first apology transparent zones and airy abstraction as previously noted this is largely trying to accomplish the same thing we have completely different ways of doing things we at least have met and privately and have agreed we\u0027re going to collaborate we have started a document offline we do not have anything ready to present sorry okay next hierarchical ISS so we have some changes here we added support for flooding scopes there was a bug fix we needed more PDU types for LAN IHS that was just silly we added an explicit area identifier because apparently nobody in in discussion was willing to actually deal with hierarchical in SAP allocation does "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:28",
    "text": "anybody here remember what ends apps are oh good okay that\u0027s probably the right thing to do we welcome Les and Paul Wells as co-authors and we\u0027re again asking for a working group adoption don\u0027t my apologies on this one it it the wrong versions of the draft this draft got included in the meeting materials and I didn\u0027t notice it so I was reading it on the plane so sorry so we had a we had Lea offered last iqf by Tony\u0027s agenda to present all the reasons we would never want to actually deploy hierarchical link state routing and then I went and asked him for this if you know would you please present that and he said no so that\u0027s pretty pretty bad I wish he would have I don\u0027t know what do you think what do you haven\u0027t really thought about working group adoption call I guess we can just ask the working group yeah yeah hopefully you know people will if you have some trepidation regarding this this this step forward to multiple levels please come forward yeah I mean so the reason I\u0027m sort of having in Hine right is because I don\u0027t think people are paying attention right and and the some people who do are paying attention are saying this is a bad idea but then they\u0027re not willing to get up and show us why so I just don\u0027t want to jump jump the gun here and get and adopt something that then later we get somebody coming in and saying what the hell are you working on this floor right this is a crazy idea Rick Taylor just very good question have the potential use faces for this being documented a is it not over the drop I haven\u0027t read the draft yeah I think that Tony\u0027s got it in there basically saying you know the obvious ones Rafael will arrest all those use cases contentious not very the the main use case is called scale we\u0027ve got this thing called the Internet we\u0027ve got domains they\u0027re busting out of their seams for many many years people have been doing strange things they\u0027ve got an IG P running in North America they\u0027ve got an IG P running in Europe and they paste things together at the edges or they run a distance vector between the two you know all sorts of strange things happen what we\u0027re finally trying to do is get around to doing the work of adding additional hierarchies so that we can continue to scale when the protocols were initially designed these kind of scale numbers were out of the design scope and it\u0027s time to add "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:35",
    "text": "I Tony 20 PG Reaper so since you publicly tried to shame best to Susan so if you really trust in the reasoning you can access it by reading up to peel an ice pack and take why we didn\u0027t yeah right that\u0027s where if it\u0027s been done and why we didn\u0027t build the BGP on top of the areas to deny areas which would have been necessary if we wouldn\u0027t have a crank back the only way we could avoid that we had the crank back and the crank back allowed us to hadn\u0027t screwed up back off and find a peaceful path but you don\u0027t have an IP you simply black hole okay so there\u0027s like meant I once sent this thing thanks so hopefully in your IGP you don\u0027t have policy restrictions a cause pass to be invalid and therefore you don\u0027t need crank back and therefore this should just work yes all comments about suboptimal paths because of abstraction yes those are well-known stipulated yeah yes yes the Tony was talking to me about it and he said also there might be some issues with when you learn where level 1 level 2 if you get why am i dropping it you know you cut in half right no partition area partition is a separate problem and yes that\u0027s something that we can talk about no cuz you\u0027re just going to make everything hierarchical right so anything you do to repair a l1 partition via l2 you would do to heal and l2 partition via l3 I mean the whole point is to have some same mechanisms at every level the author\u0027s asking for working group adoption how many people have read and thought about this work I gotta say again I read the wrong version and I figured out why I somebody asked Tony to rename his draft to have LSR in it and the agenda still referenced the old one okay so there was a decent number of people how many people how many people would like to see this become working your document there\u0027s a lot less but okay is that how many people have been influenced by me being negative in raising their hand okay there\u0027s a few all right sorry okay so all right why don\u0027t we just put it to the list and we\u0027ll just see how it goes okay thanks Don so we have less "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:36",
    "text": "volatility yeah just well this is coming up I just like to encourage everybody not to read the one that\u0027s to read the one that has LSR in in the name not just lead this is Lee LSR instead of the right that work but I don\u0027t know I\u0027m like editing this is that because you know I\u0027m going to give you grief it\u0027s but it\u0027s like Google editing present here ok next slide please this will be pretty short um what did we change the not that short I\u0027m trying I\u0027m trying ok it\u0027s just a quick this has been presented several times before what motivated this draft we actually had some some real world interoperability problems and how people decided whether to reject an LSB in its entirety and we needed to clarify what you do hey if you got an unknown TLV or TLV that\u0027s malformed you can\u0027t use the TLV obviously but you cannot throw away the LSB if you throw away the LSP then we got inconsistent LSP databases in the network and we\u0027re never going to work there were some issues with bridges anyways that these are the the reasons that we wrote the draft next slide we got some comments from Brunel thank you largely editorial but they improved the quality of the document we put them in there was a last call started on June 12th and there was a considerable amount of support no objections voice blabbed it was never declared finished this is where this is where you get say something okay okay so on the assumption that that working group adoption has actually occurred even though officially has not the authors believe we\u0027re done and we\u0027d like to ask for last call adopt it and take it through one cycle before the last call just one okay I\u0027m just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:37",
    "text": "making the point you know we don\u0027t have any feedback you know kidding aside the point the authors are trying to make is we\u0027re done we don\u0027t have any outstanding comments so from our point of view there\u0027s there\u0027s no additional work planned but you\u0027re hiding it well somebody spilled coffee on my laptop and I got it restored but they told me I shouldn\u0027t have local folders so I was not to restore the Mac library and I had all my nail it my IETF mail in my local folders so I lost them all I actually had a new laptop restored with most stuff since we nap hours okay normally speed up check from Cisco I\u0027m going to give a quick update on the ice is our e6 extension next slide please so the the draft became a working document so it\u0027s been adopted it\u0027s a good news so one of the things that we clarified in the draft is that we explicitly said so so what we sought the draft says is that the algal zero locator should be advertised as a prefix the reason is that we want things to work in a network where the router is which you don\u0027t support it sorry six which is obvious but it never really said what do we do is the algorithm other than zero how do we advertise so we basically put a sentence in a table saying we should not advertised these as a prefixes but only as a locators the reason is that if you if you have an algo X in the network you really only want the routers which are participating in that algo and is supporting the algo to actually see that prefix so what we said is they should not be advertised as a prefix but only as the locators so that\u0027s a small codification next slide so we introduced an optional sub T LV for advertising the the seat structure yes bunch of blank fields which is a locator block node and function and arguments where we basically describe the structure of the seat this is an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:37",
    "text": "optional sub sub TLV of the NC table theory and and X or LAN and exit sub TLB next slide and one other thing that I want to propose here in last ITF and in in a previous version of this of the draft we introduced an a bit as as a bit in the in the locator black teal flag field but after discussing with some people we thought maybe we should move really the a flag to the prefix reach ability attribute flags so it is also used outside of the SR v6 as it seems to be a good idea to know that prefixes and anycast prefix and we do support these flags attribute flex under the locator TLV so unless anyone implemented this we would propose to move these to the attribute flex tle so ambit and it is different and it means that I\u0027m a node right that she\u0027s advertising yeah but it still if something is any cost you may want to be sure this isn\u0027t any country fix because not saying it\u0027s an not introducing or not including n big doesn\u0027t mean instant any cost so that so having a none bit means it is not any cars but not having n bits that doesn\u0027t mean it is any cost so we want to explicitly know this isn\u0027t any costly fix so here in the inter located we want to know and we don\u0027t want to use to sit from the locator if it is forty LFA for example right in the prefix what if you don\u0027t have any prefix with your hand flag right I mean look it\u0027s I\u0027m not saying this is a must we just felt this a flag would probably deserve to go to the more generic subtly and the subtly is available under the locator so so are you saying between if they are leaked or distributed or mmm-hmm but then we have the specific flag which are saying this is leaked prefix right so it\u0027s not in any cost we fix anymore yeah exactly so I\u0027ll actually what I plan to do I put "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:40",
    "text": "this question on the list and see because if anyone has implemented a flag in the locator Flags field we don\u0027t want to cause problems but if not I think it would be worse to move it okay next slide alright so you have multiple implementations I guess we need to work on it any other suggestions comments okay remember I think I agree that the anycast flag is more a generic prefix attribute rather than being specific to our v6 I\u0027d like to point out do to Tony and less being quick we\u0027re right back on time okay so I just been mentioned and previously by AC I\u0027m going to just give a quick update on the entropy the label capability and the depth signaling using eye size and no SPF so you can go next slide so I\u0027m gonna cover okay so what yeah it\u0027s just I\u0027m covering both of the data so what we did is originally the entropy label capability was advertised as a node attribute in the router capability TLV we moved it out out of the router capability theory and we put this under the prefix advertise name the reason is that the routers may not know the identity of the of the prefix originator in the remote area or a domain and even if they if they know they may not know the the capabilities of that originator okay next slide so they basically introduced a new bit in a prefix attribute flexib TLD which we call an ELC bit and what we said is there are some rules that if the router supports Els on all of the line cards it should set this ELC flag on every local prefix it advertise if the router has multiple line cards the router must not announce the ELC for any prefix that is locally attached if it is capable if it is not capable of processing years and all of you all of its line cards the leaked prefixes should preserve the ELC signaling so we should do that during the redistribution so this way we can get in a way you know best way we can really do the DLC support between the areas and the domains and that was the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:40",
    "text": "purpose of the move from the capability subtly or capability theory to the prefix advertisement so it\u0027s not perfect but this is the best we can do okay next slide so the the depths advertisement that didn\u0027t really change it stays as a new MSD type in an Odom is d-sub TLV and basically fir alder has a multiple n cards with so different capabilities of reading the maximum label stack Napster Artemis advertise to the smallest one this is the rule that has been there even in a previous version of the of the draft I can go next slide so similar similarly we did the same thing in the u.s. beer we remove it the ELC signaling from the router information Alice a b-movie to the prefix advertisement so in OS baby - it is it is part of the extended prefix tre you know sp3 it\u0027s a new flag in the OS baby 3 prefix option and the same rules has been mentioned for I say as applies here to nxi here again this hasn\u0027t changed we have a new MST type same rule sizing I sighs so I guess this draft is now probably close to just leaking yeah now you have on the prefix when you leak right already stupid how else can you do it so I completely agree with the new proposal doing it as a prefix attribute but I wanted to ask think again or question about removing it as a node attribute there are some applications that traffic engineering and all of that which would benefit from learning the ear capability from the node otherwise now I have to you know get I have the node but I have to look for some specific prefix in there look at that actually two and then figure out come I don\u0027t disagree but question question is they want to have two ways of signaling the same thing and I guess people would say probably not but I understand this has been part of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:44",
    "text": "the discussion which we had and it goes on the list so I guess we closed that this is the best we can do you know SPF the router ID is not necessarily but you thought you\u0027d better do trap most most practically which means 99.9 percent it is very typically is always yeah so I don\u0027t think that would be an issue anyway it doesn\u0027t if you do it advertise a ceiling bill again er LD doesn\u0027t that imply that you support yeah but as soon as you are so you could you could you could you could you could definitely if you wanted it\u0027s for the node level you could just advertise your ERL that\u0027s her name was D other thing was again image to support kittens gonna add the BGP LS rather than queuing another yet another bt pls short draft on the IDR queue we certainly welcome this contribution even better okay and go to the next one all right so he\u0027s an update on the flicks Al Gore aft so originally when we the draft it was written in a way that we specified the how the Flex I\u0027ll go forwarding works in the SR MPLS data plane and then for any other data planes we said it\u0027s up to the you know that data playing on that application how did I want to use the outcome of the calculation we still keep the same thing but we led the SRB six data plane there\u0027s a new section which describes how does this work in an SRE six environment to make it very very short here and you can can read the draft but basically the necessary six the locator itself is attached to a topology and the algorithm so the locator itself has a notion of the algorithm and that\u0027s how the four running is being done so we added the new section and we also added whatever it was appropriate the DSRV six "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:44",
    "text": "data playing statements all over the text next slide please okay so the initial draft said that we can do flex our optimization inside an area and then between the areas or between the domains it\u0027s up to the controller to figure out what is the best path overall because as we do the calculation which is area bound we can only find a flex alga based paths inside the area so just giving an example if you have these four routers I want to go from r1 to r4 and I have the IGP matrix of ten everywhere and then the the green numbers are Easter delay when I lick the prefix from right left r1 is going to see that it has delay of 100 to get to the prefix with the metric of ten which is being advertised from r2 so his metric is 110 the same the other path would be 210 going to r3 so he\u0027s going to pig r2 but overall and to end the Tila is better to go the the bottom path but because we didn\u0027t have a white signal the flags I\u0027ll go metric in the prefix we couldn\u0027t really optimize this and we said well you can do this by controller but it looks like people would like to use this without the controller so we are trying to solve this problem here and next slide please so obviously the way we can solve it is that we introduce the per flex alga metric we don\u0027t think we need this to be advertised with the prefix inside the area this is mostly useful when we leak or redistribute the flags alga prefixes and you know the labels or locators but we really want to keep the metric which has to be the optimization in place so we can calculate n 2 and us now obviously we cannot just put the metric in the prefix advertisement and start to use it because we need to understand that everybody who is doing the calculation uses the same thing so why introducing the metric we also need to introduce something in the Flex alga definition which would say we want to use this metric and that is the next slide so we introduce the new sub theory of the Flex or the definition theory which is the the definition flags we introduce one flag which is an unplug and acts like an ant like says that when the prefix alga specific flag raga specific metric is used or advertised in the prefix we must use it if it is not there we refer revert back to the standard IGP metric so that\u0027s the definition and everybody needs to basically agree to this definition and understand it before we can get the consistent calculation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:45",
    "text": "results so it\u0027s similarly defined for SPF and there is a registry for those bits which are IGP agnostic this is like a common registry defined in a jar ok next slide please and this is the the Dialga metric basically said vert eyes as a sub theory of the prefix which ability theories and it\u0027s just a little bit metric value and similarly define in OSPF so if you have any comments questions on those changes note that we have the is is draft bits definer did on the RFC cue for the equivalent function in io size yeah thanks AC so yes we have the highest as one it\u0027s in the RFC editor queue got a request use case for doing the same with OSPF and that\u0027s where we have this draft to go to the next one so I think the problem statement is known or well understood but just kind of going over it again OSPF runs over layer three lag interfaces and for certain in certain deployments there\u0027s a use cases for performing either some kind of a am verification of the underlying member links or doing some kind of a traffic engineering steering or specific member links instead of doing the hashing and in order to enable these use cases there is a requirement that member links actually get described and exported as part of the OSPF topology advertisements next one so what\u0027s proposed in the draft is that when this use case is required or when this thing feature is enabled that OSPF router actually describes the layer to bundle layer to members of that bundle interface so it\u0027s basically the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:46",
    "text": "description of the link and some specific attributes of that link and this is applies to both OSP of v2 and v3 now do you thing to note is that this does not change the OSPF route computation or SPF computation so it\u0027s you know some information which is getting advertised out why OSPF next one so how is this done so there is a new l2 bundle member attributes up TLB that we have introduced in Westby of v2 this would be the under the sub TLV of the extended linked a link TLB in the extended link opaque LSA and in OSPF it\u0027s part of the new extended Alice\u0027s so it\u0027s a extended router LSA and this is a sub TLB of the router link LSA which in both cases they actually describe the layer 3 link so that\u0027s a clearly proposed proposal and mainly it\u0027s the descriptor that lists scripter is a link local identifier you know something like an if\u0027 index perhaps and then we have sub tlvs which describe the attribute of this specific member link so if there are multiple member links you would see I know more than one instance of this sub TLV under the link next one so there are no new new link attribute sub sub tlvs defined for this particular layer-2 member types the idea is that would reuse the existing till means that we have for layer 3 just that they would be included under under this one and they would be associated with the l2 bundle member the draft goes talks about the ones which are applicable for layer 2 like adjacency said or the maximum link bandwidth and then it lists others like you know addresses and identifiers which are not really applicable for layer 2 interface next one so this is mainly you know just OSPF encoding z\u0027 for draft which is already eius eius dropped is already arab said être but we\u0027d like to request a review and feedback yes so i didn\u0027t list down all the things but in the draft yes they are marked as applicable and it\u0027s kind of funny the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:49",
    "text": "draft says it\u0027s not going to that\u0027s not a scope and then later on you see that you might want to remove that to say what things are at okay so maybe there\u0027s some to mover we were debating one way other but then V of X the draft explicitly lists which is applicable and which is not so I would I will go back and correct the test and we can thank the C camp working group for this we have arbitrary level nesting of subtlety of ease so we really only have top level T of these and sub t Olie\u0027s that can be nested at arbitrary levels yes in some cases so you said sub T all these we shouldn\u0027t use the term sub sub tlvs or sub sub sub t by cog on the bank next to maybe the BFD one I don\u0027t know if I can choose yeah thanks so this is a follow on update this office was presented at in Prague about those PF working with strict mode BFD go to the next one so quick recap on what the draft does so it\u0027s a mechanism we\u0027re trying to standardize something which many implementations do already which is want to run BFD to monitor liveness and at the same time do not want to bring up the OSP of adjacency until BFD sessions up so there is an ISS RFC which does something similar it with for Isis go to the next one so just a very quick reminder how it is done it\u0027s really we introduced a new flag be bit flag in the LLS extended options and flags this is part of the hello messages and this is how a neighbor router can inform its neighbor that it wants to you know operate in this strict mode and the way of this session is requested right when the new neighbor is detected the draft talks about the FSM changes it\u0027s really that the neighbor FSM is held in the init "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:50",
    "text": "state until the BFD session is up so we do not ask for you know what progress the FSM until the BFD session is up and once the bf DS up beat goes on to the to a and X started states so that\u0027s in a nutshell the summer the proposal next one so these are the updates first thing is we change the title from OSPF DF district mode to OSPF strict mode for BFD got a lot of feedback saying that which correctly said that this is not really a PFD mechanism it\u0027s always OSPF mechanism and then there was some feedback on the need to indicate that for graceful restart scenarios because we have this additional BFD establishment thing we need to you know indicate that so the timers need to allow for this especially in a scale scenario perhaps Tony you had a question to be if the new site comes up why do you even need this signal we have the proper eye the problem is absolutely valid right you want a lot of config saying until I get the PFD are no SPF but you don\u0027t sell any hellos until you BF decide is up the other side cannot come up right it does matter what both sides have configured one side configuring doing that is already forcing the behavior so hellos do need to be sent otherwise you do not detect the neighbor if you do not detect I we do not even learn who the neighbor is and who to set up the day of the session and let until we see the hello okay and the last bit I think we can go to the next slide so we have OSPF v3 multi address family so we can have ipv4 instance routing supported by OSP of you three now in this mechanism what happens is all the hellos are done with link local ipv6 addresses but because it\u0027s for the ipv4 address family we need the session establishment has to be for the ipv4 neighbour address and we don\u0027t know this when we are operating OSP of u3 so next slide so there is a new TLV in being introduced in for LLS sorry and you ll SQL wave being introduced for OS pop3 where we propose that local interface ipv4 address is exchanged in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:53",
    "text": "the hello itself so this way normally in the OSP of v3 ipv4 working would wait for the link LSA to learn the neighbors IP address that we could install as a next stop in the routing here with this TLD we know it from the first hello and you know so this way we can run BF District mode for OSP of v3 ipv4 as well yeah so they have received some good feedback revenues and interest so I think it will help to standardize this and like to request for working group adoption in support of adopting out that ITC for instance so we got mail from a customer who was trying to do this yes and and we have the names in the draft okay so we got to to us presentations in the later which means we have more time to argue about just got slowed control yeah took yet to discuss flow control receiver side thunder side so please call this means even though you\u0027re done Peter you cannot go to the bar yet "
  }
]