[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "They're people. Welcome Jared, do you wanna sit here, or Oh, okay. Welcome everybody to the global routing operations working group session at IITF119 in the Elizabeth city of Brisbane in Australia. If you did not intend to be in Australia, Talk to me after the session. We have a fun agenda today. But before we dive into the agenda, let me introduce my co chair, Chris Morrow, who is, attending remotely. Say hi, Chris. Hello. Great. I just well, midnight for you. 1 AM. Yes. Thank you for your sacrifice. 1st of all, the note will, in any interactions with each other, at this IETF meeting, please be full to each other. Be mindful of the fact that there can be difference in perspective, difference in, experience, and that we're here together to jointly learn. IETF contributions are considered anything you say at the micro phone, anything you say to each other, anything you sent to the mailing list, strike to be excellent towards each other. Now, For this specific, working group, and this session, we have a few online resources, you can find the agenda, the accompanying draft documents, Our zulip chat room, which me and Chris are monitoring and there's a collaborative notes, web page that can be used to take minutes I'm in Australia. Please scan the QR codes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "Where, at the back of the room, I guess, is the QR code. Yeah. Scanning the QR code helps us do capacity planning for the next session. So make sure to to use your data tracker, log in to to signal that you're here. Before we continue, we're gonna need a note taker. Do I hear a remote phones here, Chris? Yeah. I can take notes. I just pulled up to the stock. Alright. Thank you. Jefferscribe is now, I guess. Suberscribe, I will, do that let's take a look at agenda. We have a session of 90 minutes with about 85 minutes content. So that means there's, some time for questions and and discussion. That's good news. The agenda is is hollowing. We'll start with, a new independent submission, called the peering API then our, reference of EMP will, give us the latest and greatest on the white faculty of, BMP drafts, Tobias will give us an update on the BGP operations, best current practices document we'll have a little bit more BMP in the realm of, stats and reports, TCPAO. And we plow through this entire agenda, We will be at the end So let me pull up the slides for our first presenter. The Hearing API. Jenny, Oh, it's gonna be two people. Shoot. There's one microphone. So you gotta take turns. Flip This is, Jenny and Tom. I think for both of you, it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "your first IETF. So I'm super excited to made it all the way, down under and are gracing you us with our your your presence, and and and and Take it away. The floor is yours. Yes. I don't know if it works, but good luck. My my open USB laptop, that's gonna be good. My apologies. Please tell me if, you would like to slide to appear, and I will make sure that happens. Thank you very much. Alright. I'm Jenny. I'm from Meta, and I'm here today with Tom from Cloudflare. We're gonna talk to you today about the peering API or proposal for the programmatic handling of hearing requests. And I note the 2 of us, But this is joint work also with, Carlos from Amazon, Matt from 20c, and Arturo from Google. Next slide, please. Maybe. Good. Alright. Just to reiterate, again, this is joint work from the 5 of us, but we're actively looking for more collaborators. So please let us know of interest, Next slide. Cool. Alright. So, what will we talk about today? First off, I will give the previous work that's been done sort of for the for the interconnection of peering requests. The present state of affairs, and then our proposed solution along with a demo and the future work we'd like to do. Next slide, please. So before, as some of you may know, right, BGP peering was managed largely over email, you know, people would write to each other to say I'm at this location. Can we establish an interconnection, it takes multiple emails for each request, it's a lot of manual time that doesn't necessarily need to be manual and you might like to free up for impact for interesting work. Next slide, please. So what is it today? Today, many companies"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:04",
    "text": "myself, Cloudflare, 20c included, have set up these self-service web portals. For requesting your inter domain interconnections. You'll see on the left, there's meadows, solid flares and 20 seats. Right? You go, you select, I'm at these locations. I'd these BGP sessions, you click an easy button, It's done. Most of these are backed behind peering DB OAuth or other forms of authentication. But it still requires a human actually go to a page type in a bunch of stuff and click some buttons. What if you removed that sort of manual of human effort. Next slide, please. So we'd like to propose this API. There are several goals to this API. First off, we want to enable machine to machine interconnection between, autonomous systems or BGP peers. We wanna reduce the human time spent actually configuring this and then also improve the network latency hopefully by encouraging more PGP peering or other connections where we can't Again, I know a question we get a lot is what about the security requirements for this, right? You can't just let anybody request these connections, right? So, you know, there's Purion DB OAuth today, perhaps in future, we'll also have other options like RPKI. But, but, to our actual, next slide, please. Our actual proposal, we have a demo for you today. Along with our future work. In this demo, is just the V Zero. We only support public peering, and we have 2 endpoints the locations endpoint and the sessions endpoint where you can request, or query, or delete your sessions, over to Tom for the actual demo. Next slide, please. So this is, the the first aspect of the the API. Do you know that this already has established the authorization aspect of this. So you already have the JWT token that actually advise you and authorizes you for establishing these bidding sessions. Not entirely relevant to this, API, which is why it's left out of the demo."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "What you see here is specifically meta. I think that's 32934. Yep. Yep. Yeah. So that's meta is requesting peering or is requesting is like, hey. We wanna appear with with cloudflare. So they hit, our endpoint and they're specifically asking, like, hey, we wanna get all of the the public sessions that we could set up. With Clouffier in all of the mutual locations. So that's the request that you see here, right? Like, the ASN is provided and the location type being public. Return that you get is the identifier of the Internet exchange the peering DB identifier, specifically and the type as well, given that, again, the goal the API here is to not just do public sessions, but also PNIs. So then the available the the type you'd get is private Right? So that kinda all makes sense. Next slide, please. You can see the request ID here, at the bottom as well. This is to do the application. To make sure that you can do proper, tracking of requests if you have that database and things like that so that if you're setting up a session, can start doing pruning and things like that. That's what the request ID is for. So we've now, you know, Meta has done the the get request. They received, the appearing DB identifier They know exactly where they wanna go. So they've now, made a post request to our endpoint, with the information provided local ASM, local IP, PRI ASM, PRIP, I apologize for not using documentation prefixes. But at least this time around, we own the IP address So this is better than most. Nice try. know, it doesn't hurt. So push request is made. And at that point, You get a, a reply back. Usually, mostly mirroring back the, the information provided. With a HTTP 200 reply with receive the request, we'll process it. It's light piece. So at that point, the, the request has kind of been handled"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "gets ingested into a database on the the cloud fair side. At that point, you know, we can set up, a 6 hour, 3 hour, whatever kind of Chrome job that goes through all of these requests and automatically then configures the router. Set up the the BGP sessions meta can do the same on their side. Which point the sessions are established and everything's okay. A a good example of, like, an implementation for this is when Meta or or or cloudflare, add a new pop, we can then add that into the automated systems so that at that point, we automatically just kind of send these requests across. Come up automatically and we don't have to deal with any of this because normally, you know, if you a new internet exchange. One of the things you do is you send an email to the tech list go. He's like, Hey, we're new here. Then you get, you know, 1500 emails that you'd have to set up hearing sessions. Speeding API that kinda goes away. So future work that we really want to work on and that we're really kind of eager to to get some feedback on is p and I connections. Right? So as we've mentioned, public exchange appearing first, but P and I connections as, you know, vast majority of traffic on the internet actually go through SPNIs, not Internet exchanges, That needs to be automated as well. There's some additional caveats that we need to kinda account for, in P and I's where it's like the LOA generations, like who's gonna send the LOA MMR locations, like everything else that kinda comes with that. There's a lot of kinda difficulty and complexity there, Also, the reason why it's not implemented in v 0, let's be honest, right? Is there. So that's for add PNI. Is the same thing for augmenting PNI? Network keeps growing. So we need to kinda keep augmenting the PNI. So we wanna add that as feature to the the API as well. So that can also be entirely automated You know, you have an automated system that monitors your traffic levels. If that hits a breach's specific threshold, you can, again, make that get request that post request and everything else so that the entire system kinda is automated. I know a lot of, data center providers provide APIs these days to to kind of basically set up the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "mostly, automate the the setup of, of cross connects. So would be nice to kinda tie into that. Configurable P and I options, right, is, like, do you wanna do MD5? Do you wanna do PPA, kind of everything else that kinda comes with P and I's. We also want to add maintenance as a feature request especially for, you know, public hearing, but also for PNI's Sometimes, networks take their peering offline because they're doing a router maintenance or there's an change maintenance or whatever else. That sometimes fires off a pager on the other side of the peering connection because oh, dear god, we lost the traffic with our biggest beard, and everything's on fire, what's going on. With this, you could fire off a a request to the API to notify the the peering networks. Like, hey, we're doing a maintenance you can silence your alerts or whatever else so that people actually know what's going on. You don't have to send, like, emails to the mailing list. Next slide, please. Is obviously some security concerns. As Jenny mentioned earlier, Currently, we are relying on peering the VOS. Appearing to be as a third party, entity, right? It is neutral for now, but Who knows? So so that's something to to consider. Maybe there's alternatives available, that we could leverage that are build better into the the existing internet routing ecosystem. We're thinking here, kind of like RPqi, checklists, things like that. I know that to co authors of that draft or presence. So that might be interesting. And some additional checks. Right? Like, is Should this person be allowed to, to actually request peeling and then some, some additional kind of requirements Next slide, please. So What are we we currently looking for? What's the the next steps for us with this, peering API? 1st of all, there's industry adoption, as we've shown, there's, there's a V Zero running the the auto peer endpoint for Flipklavers specifically is accessible by 20c as well as Meta."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "It's not so it's not a public input yet. We'll get there. So there's industry adoption. We'd be really interested to see further adoption by other parties and and other implementations. So there's a there's a method implementation. And there's a 20 C implementation of, the software itself or the the API endpoint. Be more than eager or happy to see other implementations from the the draft space applications that we've published, There's additional security requirements or considerations, maybe, like like I mentioned before, the the peering DB side of things, is may or may not be a bit contentious. I'm not sure. RBKI checks, checklists, may or may not be be interesting, to kind of implement or to kind of add And and the the the biggest question, I guess, the the the that we have is is, does this draft fit under the the gross charter or, or should we pedal this somewhere else is, I guess, the biggest question. Next slide, please. So we're inviting y'all to, to have a discussion about this. Right now at the mic, but also, tomorrow March 21st from 2 pm to 3 pm in M9. There's also Webex available, which is available on the Wiki. Please join us so we can have, in-depth at length conversations about all of the things that we're doing wrong. Which I'm sure is a current lead case. And, the the draft, is available here. The last version was pushed on Monday. And that's it from our side. Any questions? Warren Kumari Google. John says that it fits within section 2 of the charter document and suggest operational solutions to problematic aspects of blah blah blah blah. So Cool. Thank you. So that's a yes. One of them. Ben Madison from work online. I mean, this is probably more of a conversation for the side tomorrow, but I'd I'd be interested to hear your thoughts about how this actually practically changes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "workflows inside operators. Because, I mean, speaking for myself, and I mean, maybe you guys were a little a little bit more less affair about this than but I can't like, 8. If I was to run one of these endpoints, a call to that end point is never going kick off a deployment of a new config. And so at best I can kind of see an a a a world in which Everybody is only having to use one version of their own internal tools to do this stuff rather than using a half a dozen of other people's tools. And that, I suppose, is helpful. Maybe a bit of a work Benefit, balance, conversation to be had, if that's the case. Yeah. The the there's the partial point fully agree that, you know, that doesn't always work for everyone that has an open hearing policy. Goal here is that because it's programmatic, you can also then add programmatic constraints to what you can and and do not want to accept. Yep. It's not because you're running the pairing API that you have an open pairing call. You can still, in the backend, codify whatever kind of restrictions that you want, you can have a except list. You can have a deny list. You can have whatever the hell you kinda want in that back end. Where you kinda goes like, well, you know, you, yes. So you you teed have up the second part of my question perfectly, which is have you thought of a of a kind of, sidecar work to this, which is a way of generically expressing which session requests you would automatically accept what goes to review and what goes straight in the bin. I can imagine that being useful. Yes. This is something that we have thought about, and I think would be quite interesting. There's a section at the bottom of our draft where we touch on this, but we don't have a formal like, preferences or other way of expressing this if that's something of interest, we'd love to chat you could use it both for, like, should we reject or accept these requests but also, like, a possible extension would be, like,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "for Piena, you know, let's set your policy for private peering who provides the LOA first, you know, lots of extensions for this, and we'd be very interested to chat about this. Thirdly, I'm more than happy to talk about the checklist thing. I think that's it's an obvious use case for it. It's the right way of doing it. And, fourthly, really, if the only thing that comes out of this is not having a steaming pile of garbage for ordering cross connects on the side of the colo provider. Because of your collective clout, then I'm for it. David Lamparter. Not being an operator myself, it is very unclear what pieces of software are actually implementing this API. I can guess at it because I do roughly understand how entire peering world works, but I think it's this should be spelled out a little bit better. Because now I'm scared. I I have to implement this into routing protocol, which is definitely not what this is intending to do. So Yeah. Get the briefly, the the goal is this is a third endpoint that runs outside of your routers. Their desist is not running on the routers itself. It might be in an ideal world actually run on the routers. But I think there's there's gonna be some very severe apprehension about that. Exactly. Because, know, you Our routers are insecure by default. I don't want to run NGINX. That's ten years old at that point. So, proline operator. Oh, who do you have, folks? Kind of I'm pretty sure, the peering that I used to do before retirement would not have gone through this but, one thing I'm kind of curious is, Someone froze this in, And, yeah. Well, okay. It is, seems to me completely unclear how to how to frame the expectations. 1 session"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "at which time to expect sessions to actually come up. And how to how to deal between the two knocks about, well, okay, it does not work kind of if there is no signaling when to expect the session, kind of, you also have a have a problem in figuring out when you have to debug. Yes. That's a fair point. There's been some discussion, you know, post policy. Both sides decide, you know, the other party should unfill the first. You're kind of gonna sit there forever, right? So this is an area we're we're wondering, right, like, how do you provide some of SLA or expectation for when the sessions will come up don't have anything today, but that is something we're interested in. And remember, there is always the fallback of of of of of Well, send an email. Obviously, we don't want people to send emails aren't necessary, but that is sometimes necessary, right? I'm Bennegan. Welcome on. I think the I I agree with Rudigus point. I think the problem is not kind of a conception of like SLA timers and stuff like that. I think that you're carrying way less state in the protocol than you're gonna end up needing. I think you're gonna need some sort of a state machine to model that process properly. Which is Gonna be big and clunky, but I think pretty unavoidable. Yeah. We we kind of already acknowledge that partially in the draft. The goal here is, one point or another, if you'll need to do consensus at one point. Right? Like, is is one of those things like, well, we configure our routers every 6 hours. For example, Google configures theirs. That'd be 24 hours. What's the consensus? What's the overlap from that that that that, give them the benefit of the doubt. Right? So at that point, you kinda need to get consensus agreement is the same thing with the unfiltering side of things."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "Amazon doesn't wanna unfilter first. Clapfer doesn't wanna unfilter first either. If we set a plethora to, to Amazon, to unfiltered first. Right? This is not, you know, the the the the the aspect or the question is, like, know, who pulls that grenade first kind of situation. So Yeah. Maybe, yeah, that or, like, youngest ASN or oldest ASN. I don't know. It's like, well, find something. I'm sure. But yeah, that those are open ended questions, and then I agree that definitely available for work. Yeah. Well, okay. Kind of, to me, it would look like, very straightforward. The requester Actually, since includes in the request, the email, for the response. We accepted. We rejected. Please please expect session to come up at on. So, I mean, we're gonna go. Yeah. But even if this doesn't automate everything. If it just ends up, like, going into a ticketing system, it would all be nice. Right? Like, you'd still have all the info you need, and, like, somebody gets involved. But you have all the stuff and serve, like, here's a fifty page email explaining the person's life history first. Yeah. Alright. We've come to the end of this, specific time slots Oh, you didn't close the queue yet. As a very heuristic idea, I'm I'm not opposed theoretically to having support in the the routing, demon to accept the copy paste of the API output just to configure the the parameters for the session correctly. Which could be useful so speaking as chair, I think, in summary,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "the group suggests that that maybe a formal description of a provisioning workflow expressed as a state machine to work through the dance of who does spot action first, to help shape expectations on both side of the the handshake. The AD indicated that in in their institution, there's there's holes in the charter. So from my perspective, I will then proceed, to issue a call for working group adoption and we take things from there. So thank you very much for for being here. And I, I'm interested to hear what's, comes out of the site meeting tomorrow. And, Cool. Thank you. The big BMP slide deck. Next up, Paolo Lucenty. You know the drill? Tell me when you want the next slide. Yep. Hello? So, yeah, update on, TLV, TLV, EBIT, and rail. For a a 1st round. So Next slide, please. Just to recap, like, the Tlb draft, what is that about? Like, we don't have, you know, kill this in every message. So let's make all the four legs of the table equal. Slide, please. So what happened, since the last one since the last meeting, so we have you're asking a little bit So, the slightly less parsing, of reworking. TL V that we have there, before we add, like, a one tilt be for each of the, I don't know, the other part or, the multi label and things like that. And so we said that let's do just one kiloby. We you know, bit field field"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "Right? So we also never specified whether I mean, we if we don't have this information for stateless parsing, in the route 1 drink. What to do. So if it's not there, then it's like you should revert to the old behavior. So you go to the PRF that probably you cashed, and so you look there, all the capabilities from the the second thing is that, like, we had this group TLV. And, I had, a I have to admit, I had this, bad idea, to say that you we have a we have a rep and then we have a number of nlris and then we want to make groups. And so, like, okay, we start counting from half sir the last NLRI, right? So there is quite a bit of state in there. And so essentially, like, already thought you know, in Prague, that was a bad idea. And then, Daniel Chai, he came essentially with the same comment. And so essentially, like, you know, the you know, we just said that the GB to one for the index. And so essentially, the groups can have an independent indexing compared to the, to the, peneleur rise in the, in, in, in the message. And because of that, we can also remove the need for group tlvs to have group ID, group index and index, where the index was always set to 0. Right. Right. As a slight So I, I am, especially very happy. I mean, this was a big Polish up this, for the group TLB. And then the the other thing that, like we said, let's, so we already had in note about ordering of the TLBs. So who should start, you know, from TLT 0 and so forth. And so just because, logically, maybe you first want to, define the groups. And second, you want to define how to parse the BGP, up date if you have you'll you'll you'll you'll you'll you'll"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "the stateless parsing, we are just recommending that probably those should have TLB value that is a Tlv, type that is less and, BGP updated that you want to parse next. And, we updated the wire format example. There was, shown when he was very instrumental in finding a few errors. I found a few more. So now it's spot on Please. That's it. Next slide. So at the moment, there is really no permissions all the feedback as being processed. And, always, I said, before, I mean, it's this this is becoming a little bit more complex than it was at the beginning still It's very nice to read, it flows when you read the distrust but it's good know, a little bit to that we collectively review it and, we see whether I mean, everything makes sense. And very importantly, also as part of this also to implement because that's where we will catch a number of probably other things maybe we would didn't think about. So this is for this draft. Text, one, please. The EBITDA draft. Next one. So the EBIT, is simply like So, originally, we have TLVs where there is, you know, just the IANA, you know, signed, code points. And so we said, like, likely it happens in IP fix, let's say that the EBIT, so we have this bit at the beginning where we say This is a private, let's say, assigned space so that we can toy a little bit with, Jevo. Transitioning features from, you know, a vendor specific to publicly available for example, Next slide, please. And, so there has been, not much work on this draft except, you know, processing, feedback from which will make made a lot of sense because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "now we don't have only the index, but we have also the pan. The PANG was included in the length of the TLV. But the index was not. And the index was coming first and the paying after. And so it's like you are counting aside. But, it's not contiguous. So it just make a lot of sense to polish this thing out. So thanks a look. Next slide, please. So, there is Oh, there is actually no feedback to process. Not something. there is no open issues So, there is no feedback to process and, this draft of, of course, depends on the other draft on the TLP 1. We should also, you know, 9th this and see that everything sticks together. Next slide please. And, so this is the rel drafted, the you know, root events logging. So Next slide, please. So what is the intuition here is that, like, we have, in PMP originally, we have a state conversation. We have, you know, debugging with root metering. You know, starts and session porting and things like that, but we don't really have anything, event to treatment, right? So I think that, you know, we can do alerting, reporting, or Like, for a state change, for on change, on change analysis, we have to always take, I don't know, odds re being a pre policy and post policy. We should take this two huge tables and then compare what is the difference. So what if, we have just something that tells us what is the difference, instead. Of finding it out. So that's the intuition behind this draft. Next slide, please. So, also on this draft, there's being quite some, work so first of all, I incorporated the feedback from, Jeff and Rudiger. I mean, because you know, if, it was, policy discard"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "for why we are being reported, and an an LRI, then essentially, like, a string that you implementers can, you know, implement it the way they want. Rudiger was saying that I like restoring codes and Jiffel was saying probably we want, a factor of information. So, it has been a little bit relaxed and the fleshed out, a bit better. There is a second important thing, which is that, like, in already previous version of the draft, I did clearly set a boundary between, their, the pathmark in Tlb for route monitoring and, rally I didn't do the same thing between rail and route mirroring. So what I did is that I put a little note in operational consideration, this was part of some feedback from, hand And, there is more, later. Like, I have slide, about let's say let's say, what is this precisely about? It's a little bit bigger than just this one line. And then, of course, we have a group of TLV and, stateless parts in TLV also. Here because we have another rise. So I have up the debt. I mean, it's exactly the same that he'll be draft. And the document was adopted compared to the previous, meeting. Next slide, please. So let's come to this root mirroring versus root logging. Right? So root mirroring, it exists, from, the super beginning. And, It's, there are 2 use cases, the verbatim copy of route not state compress And, and then there's the second one, which is like, If there is an erroneous bucket, you just sample that bucket Right? Now we have a root event logging where we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "you know, alerting reporting on changing analysis, feedback, loop, use cases, and also The sample of a wrong use buckets. Right? So, it's like there is a clearly you know, we are doing the same thing in two parts. Essentially, like, as I capture in the next slide, I will stay here because it's more visual. Right? So we have, a few options here. So one is, we say that the the sample of erroneous, packets should stay in route mirroring, and we moved it from here. Or we just say that, like, it is right now. It's you can do it in one way or in the other, but, probably it's a duplication. It's never a good thing to do. And in this case, at the moment, I have just put in operational considerations that if you are a new implementation, you don't implement not 1 and whatnot the other. If you, not root mirroring and not root event logging, probably if you want to do sample, if you want to sample erroneous buckets, you should implement rail over route mirroring. I mean, just a recommendation, but We can review and discuss And of course, the other thing is that we can, just say that, you know, sample of erroneous packets should go instead from the root mirroring. I don't have a solid opinion. I I'm really looking for a feedback. Maybe the only thing that I was thinking myself is that I read the group mirroring. I don't think about sampling of erroneous packets Right? I think about it when I see event logging. So this is it would kind of make sense to me to go, like, in the direction that you know, 2 bash this functionality from the root mirror. But super open, not solid opinion, we have also John that is from the original using RFC. So it's always, you know, good feedback to get. And, so, yeah, Next slide, and the next slide."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "So, essentially, where where are we? So, 1st of all, there is, here, there is really still some, feedback to process. For example, Thomas, there is your feedback to process where you wanted some throat. Code points for the events when, you have, you are 3 passing prefix limits, for example, I have to update. We have a few code points I have to detail other activities that I didn't flush out already. And then there is, of course, the big question from Jeff, like, which is like, what shall we do with this draft? Are we this, you know, good? Are we good like this? We want to make to more or whatever. So for example, At the moment, We don't really enter into feedback loop. You cases, but, for example, there was Alex Hazimov that had something for segment routing, I think very informally, I asked the Jeff, like, shall we do something fit, but look for a flow spec and things like that. So steal open questions, and because of these open questions, one possibility will be also to make the BGP update PDU, TLV. Let's say, optional so that maybe you can intercept more. So still open questions, open to feedback, and, essentially the the sick the sick the sick the sick So Slide. And if you have questions, I think this is the last slide. Yep. Now, deck, on this Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Mhmm Okay. Questions. And work online. Not not so much questions as as feedback to the one question you had. I, I agree. I think that the the erroneous, update logging things should be in the the events oriented message. And I think there's a couple of concrete reasons for that as opposed purely conceptual one, which I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:05",
    "text": "agrees with it. I mean, if, if I imagine a world in which I've got kind 2 BMP stations, one which is attached to a a state synchronization subsystem and another one which is for kind of logging and and, and, and, and doing kind of alerting and stuff like that. I don't really want I I kind of on that second one. Don't really wanna have to to do the route monitoring support. Just to get the context for that event. So I think that, I think I I kind of agree with you that maybe kind of pointing implementers to, like, If you do it in this place, then you don't need to do it in this place anymore. But I think if there's going to be one mandatory place where it should live, it's in the event driven message. Yeah. I don't think I think that I I I think that's a pretty obvious question. I don't think you'll get much pushback from other people about that. Thank you. Thomas Klavfrieskom. Just wanted to confirm also same opinion on my side and maybe one feedback, I think the the draft so far is is good. I think let's keep it simple. I think we have now coverage of the RIPS. We have coverage. How it's being installed in the with the pause marking. Now we're getting also visibility in the route policies, especially for the most important cases. So I think that's a good starting point. Fantastic. Thank you for calling us. To close the loop, please let the chair snow when you would like us to take actions like working group last call, Sure. A lot. There is still a lot of work to do, so no worries. Okay. That's what you love. Next up. Alright. So, to be honest with you, this first, presentation, like, about lock rate, but, there has not been many updates, if not just editorial changes. So I would say next slide Next slide,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "Okay. And but we rolled the version. So at least that I have to say, So, and then we have, the the local part ID, one where just to remind what is a little bit of the intuition here, the intuition is that like when you have, for example, at the bot, you have, per session, ID right? And, so, you have a ad part that being, you know, for routing. And then let's say you have at for monitoring. So it's 2 different email sessions. And guess well to the IDs could be different. Right? So here, what we are just saying is that let's do a path per box. Like, for router. Per think, right? So that, let's say we have, you know, routing session with a monitoring session essentially, we have the same IP Right? And this is maybe becoming even, very, capital it can become very capital in future if, for example, then we start sending this IT also, for correlation between data playing and comfort right so that is the intuition behind this draft. Right? Next slide, please. Okay. Well, yeah, we received comments we changed the, the draft and, the results are working implementation. But, it's like please so the first and big comment we received from, it was from Jeff and Jeff course, said, like, I mean, this is going to cost something like, compared to not having it. So that is, obvious, I would say. So what we did, is, like we introduced like we before we were just saying that the, the, the, the, the scope"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "of the ID was the, Angular ride. But now we just said, like, if you want to keep it, okay. Otherwise, you can set your you need your your scoping. We let's say, update in the recommendation that VRFID, hoping that. So in this way, you could if you have a one perfect 3, I mean, you can do everything in just one pass, essentially. And the and the and that's it. Essentially, like, there was some other, minor fixes over there. And next slide, please. So this is just a recap of how, you know, the wiring, things on the wire would look like. So now we have this subtype code points where either you give the a local path ID, or you say the local party is not available. And, we have reasons Next slide, please. Where essentially the reasons could be, I mean, these 3. So far, essentially. And, of course, it was not it it was just a case that was not handled in the previous version. I mean, we should be conscious that we may not have the local bot ID. Next slide, which I think is the Yeah. And, so, essentially, all of these us being, you know, implemented in FRR, which was, a little bit of an exercise, for us a little bit. So first of all, it is, you know, it is possible to do it, and to go back to Jeff's point, I mean, of course, you know, this is either computationally expensive or memory. Expensive. And it's it's obvious, right? So either it's computationally expensive because you have to go and check, every time, you know, which, you know, ID you issued a destination, So you save on the memory, but you have, CPU intensive, or you start, you know, having a little bit of memory"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "structures for that. So you are consuming memory. But you are efficient on the CPU. So, yeah, so that's that. And that there is also, let's say the, will require the, not the, the, the tree the fork of, minimal FRR where essentially all of this work was made by Amazons. And that's it. Right. I think this is the last slide. Oh, okay. Yeah. We also yeah, made, prince, updated the younger consideration, and, we have to implement it on the collapse on the collector side. Can someone close the door, please? Keeps coming it out. Yeah. Uh-uh. No worries. Just charge a little bit of money if people wanna leave the room. Next slide, I think is the last one. Thank you. Any this Questions? Tomatoes. Dometas. We might then. Yeah. Exactly. But one is already here. Yeah. Is that a fruit or a vegetable? It's No questions for Mister Lucenty. Tom Cloudflare. I was wondering if there's any appetite to just forcing the specific implementation. So instead of going can either implement it computationally heavy, or you can implement it memory heavy. Just dictating, well, Do memory implementation. And I it's one of those things that I would leave a little bit under specified because, I mean, you can make always recommendations. Like, so this is our experience. And based on this experience, we recommend this or that. But the truth is that when you go in memory structures or other consideration, a little bit more low level, you want to leave it under specified because otherwise you can have banned or single, pulling out of implementing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "Alright. Thank you. Thank you so much. Next up. We have Tobias. And Tobias is giving us an update on a worker group document the BGP operational security updates. So, yeah, good morning. Okay. You have 2 choices. You you can do it like Freddie Mercury where you just hold it. There you go. Excellent. So that seems to work well. Some microphones are not my expertise. So let's get started. So, Since, last time, there have been a couple of changes in a dash 1 So the scope has been clarified. There were several comments concerning GCP AO. There were also comments concerning the confinement of management and out of band, in band management control point protection. There was some additional context serialization of IVGP and SPS indication, expanded AS pass filtering, So overall, the whole graph has actually grown quite a lot. And if we go to the next slide, There has actually been quite some more that has been added for example, one of the things people really wanted to see when talking to operators was some guidance on whether you should use local pref on IX Plinx. And you shouldn't. And whether you should, Anna, go g shot. Yeah, you should."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "However, you might have noticed there's an additional person on the, also now, which is Nicoleiard, Nick wrote an email to the mailing list. Next slide, please. Hello? I Nothing affecting a trackpad's is difficult. And, the bottom line that mail was that the current draft is kind of putting all eggs into one basket. Including chicken eggs, oyster eggs, and a couple of other, other, species. Currently the draft kind of tries to be comprehensive and just include everything that is kind of known to us that makes it really difficult to eventually reach consensus, because With this set up, the document will take years. People will always find that one special shed. Want to be really specific about. The reality around us will probably change faster than we can keep track in updating the document and moving everything that should go in there. And for some things, even unclear when they will be stable enough or not, to be included in such a document. There's also a terms list that is a little bit like, our C8499. DNS terminology. But it's also just a subject term. It does not really belong into that graph. Draft and, in general, and these are Bzp194 nor the current IDR abstract enough to actually be in some form timeless. So several of the more specific points raised by Nick we're actually verbatim copies from BCP 194. Next slide, please. At the same time, they informed me that, there actually are quite some policymakers kind of eyeing, VCP 194 because they are looking for Guidelines, inspiration, Creative ideas to put into documents more like policy slash laws, that do, like, cybersecurity for critical infrastructure. And policy makers tend to be kind of not so cut with, like, must, must, should, should, and what different capitalization means."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "Which by the way is also lacking in bcp194. And the the notion of my network, my rules might not really come out furthermore policy makers kind of like things that are testable. If a draft says something about, like, something should be in a certain way. They really like this to make There's a criterion to be tested And, while we are car they kind of able to ignore some of the more outdated and, not Not really that feasible parts of PCP 1 line 4 anymore. That can get really difficult if it is codified and more. Next slide, please. So, let let's just try to spin up and possible extreme, version of interpreting BZP 194. So BZP 19 recommend announcing our experience with the route server. Or each peer to their cone with their own ASN. If the route server doesn't do that, I heard this is a great way to make friends with people who are running IXPs if you do that. And ripe 804 sets a minimum before size 4 and I the, allocation to slash 26 and Aaron proposition 3 20 is somewhat similar, even though we don't yet cost. And some IXPs also use slash 60 force b 6 for different peering lands. So IXPs and ISPs tend to be critical infrastructure? And, well, terminology is kind of unclear. Sometimes they're not peer peering, peering with peers, appear is maybe appear, which would you have no peering relationship because it's a customer. There are kind of ambivalent. Next slide, please. So if we have or worst case expression, I expect must announce a peering land prefix if they are considered critical infrastructure, meaning a slash 64v6 and up to slash 26 before must be accepted for all DGP Neighbors. ISB's must announce appearing land prefixes of all our XPs they are connected to if the not announce them."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "ISPs must create route objects for all members of the peering land or ISPs must announce prefixes, they are not authorized to announce. Well, you can go on, IR tool, for example, is also codified. And if people copy from this. I mean, we, we all went to school and copy pasted homework assignments usually doesn't get better. So not an ideal outcome we might be having. Next slide, pace. So there's a couple of options forward. So, ideally, what we would like to propose is that we split out, some parts from the current draft. So keeping the course documented focuses on the more timeless parts of it. So throughs about BGP security, the purpose goals, high level, what Can I actually replace BZP 1 94 as a BCP? And then we take the informational document listing, like, The basket of things of techniques you can maybe use if you want to to attain certain properties. Maybe you can use something else not really prescriptive, more like a detailing thing, overview thing of what is there. So another informational document, which can be used as like, well, documenting what terminology we are currently using to refer to what things, things, things, things, things, things, things, things, and ideally be somewhat quick. Before things become lost. Next slide, please. And, The core point about the, reduced graph is to be short enough to policy makers actually do read it. Generic enough to be the resilient to certain technology changing. Testable independent of implementation, and published quick enough to prevent harm. Next slide, please. The securing BGP, a list of techniques, list possible ways of accomplishing, securing BGP speakers, BGP route exchange, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, which also means that if you make this an informational document, techniques can be neutrally described something that exists. And something that has a certain effect if you use it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "And you don't have to be prescriptive in what to actually use see also the discussion with MTASTS And Dane for the male people. And it basically means that we can go for a more extensive list in contrast to whether we would put that into a BCP. Without risking people being, like, yeah, no, but but I don't like to have that specific scene in there. I only want to have mine. Because it's informational. Next slide, please. And then we, of course, could have a terminology document, which is somewhat similar through RC8499. BCP-two nineteen DNS terminology but for BGP related terms. Idea would be to not make this a BCP as well, but more go, descriptive, like, how we are currently using language to talk about things in the routing ecosystem. For basically the same reason as with the list of techniques document, we want to be able to more quickly update it, and we don't want to bike shed around what specific terms mean So kind of an oxford style approach as they call it, versus the French prescriptive style of building dictionaries. Next slide, please. So, what I basically want to use the remainder time we have now for is discussion. So, claim, we kind of have consensus at ECP 194 needs to change. How is, like, the other thing. If we wait too long, we may no longer be able to easily change it. And it should be that we focus on the graph that, goes more into the high level vision making secure things. And avoiding bike shedding of specific details. Thoughts. Alright, Ben. You're 1st in queue. And Tobias, thank you for the updates and the work you're doing on this, document. Ben work online again. Thank you for picking up this work. It's pretty It's it's a lot of work. I, as promised, I did have a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "brief reread this morning to try and refresh my memory a little bit, and it's I I didn't hate it as much as I thought I was going to. It example. There's, can I mean, I think there's quite a lot of culling that happen on a a need to happen, especially given the concerns about this being kind of copied and pasted into into regulations in various parts of the world. There are lots of places where we spill over from being security operational guidelines to just like This is how you should touch. Computers. Kind of guidelines. Like, you know, doing things atomically, doing things with I idempotent procedures. The, talking about the current version of the draft. Yes. Bye. BCP-one hundred and forty. Okay? No, no, no, no, I'm talking about the current version of the I think there's a lot of Like, if we think we need to write down, like, how to interact with computers well, let's do that somewhere else. I think that I think this is a really hard I think this is a really hard document kind of keep in existence. We just don't have the tools for keeping This kind of document current in the IETF. We can kind of we can have it a a more general purpose discussion about how this could be a long lived and frequently refreshed document if we want, but we've kinda tried that before and failed pretty pretty dismally. I'm kind of not convinced that it should exist before at all in light of that. At least in its current form. If we think that it has to exist for one reason or another, I think that we should try and stick to principles rather than practices. And we should make those principles be pragmatic. Like, let's not tell people not to use local pref to prefer pairing links to transit links because they're going to. And you're all we're going to do is succeed in writing a document that does not document operational practice and is never going to."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "I'm, I I'm I'd I had like editorial stuff and stuff like that. I'll try and do a proper review at some station and you've written comments as as as kind of principle stuff. That that's my high level feedback. So, so, Yes. So that that is actually also the proposal, to just cut everything out. That is not high level principle stuff. Yep. And I would would suggest your wait was a review until we went through there with the chainsaw. Because otherwise, you're reviewing stuff that is relevant in ultrasound text. Okay. Jeff has, so for the definition section, The idea our chairs have actually talked about, we need a flavor of this thing anyway because We do not have consistency across the RFC series for just even EGP things. We were originally thinking about it one part in terms of something general useful for the outside world, but also one of the consumers is actually the RFC editor. So, when you get around to having that bit of conversation, we're gonna be looping them in as second piece for Ben's comment about how do we maintain this thing? Let's get this thing to the point where we ship it at least once. We have GitHub these days. We didn't have that before. There's nothing that stops us basically from having a rolling internet draft that refreshes every 6 months with no edits. Yeah. Ben triggered me with the whole, like, living documents discussion. I mean, there's nothing that really would stop us from putting a whole bunch of effort at it. Publishing this as an RFC once. And then, like, making a commitment to ourselves that we're gonna publish a new version every, like, year or something like that. And set up an agreement in the working group to not nitpick every single possible thing. Much of the issue with publishing a new RFC is not actually the, like, turning the crank. It's there as soon as you open it, everybody's like, oh, I want this particular word. Maybe we can do better. Or, maybe we were just screwed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "Yeah. So, I would argue that that would be a nice thing to try, but that we should have like this this high level umbrella thing, and then we can do that process with the detailed ones, detailed ones, So I'm Catherine I'm not sure if I agree with that. I mean, the one of the issues with BCP 194 is that it exists End of lead centers. I don't think anyone disagrees with that at this point. That the issue that I'd like to avoid with this is that we come with a new B in one way or another, and we make the commitment now. It's like, yeah, we'll keep it updated. And then we don't. And then we end up in a position where either lawmakers or other operators or new operators that read the document as being not just informational and implement the thing, and then somehow in one way or another blow up the routing table. So I'm not sure if that's the right approach to do with this. Eider, Get infused with it. Jesus. Jared Mach Akamai. The. I think we should just probably try and get a new document out because the alternatives that I can see, you know, be the GitHub or I mean, the IETF does technically maintain a Wiki so we can edit it you know, Wikipedia style. I I think getting the document out is really really the right mechanism here. And then I think the impetus is on, you know, the chairs and the IESG. And even the IAB, who are the ones who would be responding to some of, these things to make sure that these stop you know, that they're reaching down into the appropriate subject, Marriott, subject area expertise, when it comes to any external relations liaison, etcetera."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "Yeah. I mean, I do kind of agree with, sorry, Warren Cory. I do kind of agree with what you say but BCP 184 already exists. And, like, unless we're willing to deprecate that, make it historic, like, this work should be better than that, hopefully. You know, it's entirely possible that we'll make ment to ourselves that we're gonna keep updating it and won't. But even so, I think that's better than where we are now, Like, like, I I also like the CTL idea. Just enough. Any other questions, comments, Okay. So for my overview, you're gonna slim down the current draft that is intended as a replacement for 194. You're gonna you are considering to add second documents for terminology, and then a third documents targeted policy makers. Am I No. So the idea would be, we make a BCP 194 replacement, which focuses on, like, the high level goals and purposes of BGP security, making sure that you do not redistribute things. You're not supposed to be redistributing. You're not ingesting things. But more on the principle side, then Like, that becomes a basically 194 replacement. In addition, we have, Possibility to get an information document detailing terminology has also Jeff mentioned that that that is kind of needed to make sure people at least know what other people use to talk about things and have another informational document as basically a summary of what is available to attain the goals listed in p194194 with the letter 2 not necessarily having to be out 1st, 1st, It's more about, let's clean up 194 first. And then we do actually have some more time to get to the bike shedding about the rest. Thank you for that clarification."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:03",
    "text": "Ah, kind of, when I'm looking at this, First, I note the working group that Delivered. The first one took ages. On the document, And I'm The clarification, it was not this working group. No. No. Of course, I was I was referencing, in open that work in group That did it. And, I'm pretty sure the, goal and the ideas about the audience of the document where practitioners and, as the BCP says, about essentially best best practices. And, well, if we start to consider potential audiences like driver 2 making theater out of it or, policy makers. Well, okay, kind of, The question is, which audiences actually, are reasonably to reasonable to consider or how to protect audiences that are kind of not being addressed by the context. To, not use it in, in, improper ways. From my interactions, with supposed policy makers I have to say they actually did not go for this document, because for the, short text that they wanted to use"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "such a such a document was obviously not a source. Specifically, a BSI, the German federal agency for IT security. Had the goal for fixing or for for giving the regulator, which is another one. Text and, well, okay. In fact, these PSI guys, usually, show up at ITFs. This time not? And, well, okay. They actually, they actually consulted some some known local experts about it. Now, of course, other policymakers regulators may operate completely different but, well, okay. Can we can we address and take care of all insanity that's around Certainly not. Kind of. Yes. Make sure make sure that we, go high level abstract and, make sure that, best practice documentation that goes into the nitty gritty stay somewhere else. Of course, makes sense. Oh, Okay. Thank you. Might come into slightly shorter than Rudiggers. I I remembered a further thing that I wanted to mention. You mentioned the difficulty of defining exactly what a peer is. Which is nontrivial. When I was writing a not that dissimilar document that describes our"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "a kind of public facing description of our external routing policy. I found the distinction customer, non customer. Much more helpful than the distinction customer transit pair. You might want it that that might be helpful to clean things up. Think current version of the document already goes in the that direction. Sort of. It kind of it uses like upstream and customer and then kinda hopes that you know that there's a appear in there somewhere in the mix and neighbor to And PGP describe adjacency. And upstream and, etcetera, are, I think, from the as per draft. Yeah. I mean, you'll find that most of the distinctions from a policy perspective are, is this thing a customer or not? Not is this thing a transit or a peer? And in a couple of cases, you can make that distinction as and when more specifically. All all saying I I think doing a run through and a cleanup, that's I'm is, if you're probably a helpful thought to have in the back of your mind. So we're on Kamari Google. This might be a bad idea. But I'll point out that a BCP is actually like a grouping label, And you had mentioned a couple of different documents that you wanted to have. So, like, bcp 195 is actually RFC 8996 and RFC 9325. So you could do the, like, BGP thing and the terminology could all be grouped together into sort of one overarching set and So so to to to close considerations about be, like, BCP state having implications on how often you can change it. Thank you, Tobias."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "Oh, no. So we upload it were converting PowerPoint to PDF, the system tried this, and we ended up with this and and and and our fine presenter generated PDF And Why why is it not in the document? Over the BST of Get out of the queue, Warren. So I'm I'm not entirely sure why the system didn't refresh a new submission from, half a year, half an hour ago. But Let's let's give it a try and and see how it goes. Let's begin at the page 2. We are This is page 1. Okay. Okay. And, however, I'm determined for China Mobile. This is my also my first time attending the IETF meetings. Eric Glad to be here today. I'm going to introduced to drafts additional new speed BMP SAT types and definition for aggregated BMP route monitor message. The first draft draft defined several new in events on rotors. As the BGP, protocol continues to expand, more features and functions are deployed sort of the BGP particle, making it increasingly important to monitor relevant events. Event information of these functions. Okay. Next. Next slide, Chris."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "In this draft, we define Several We defined the several types corresponding to Rivian and Revolve the tax, their tax. Including root threshold AS has threshold and the root origin validation. Next slide, please. In some scenario, we need to limit the size of the root table to prevent the root from a receiving tool about a BGP BDP root roots. As too many PGP routes could occupy a lot of resources Rooter leading to performance degradation. Is this It is, especially the case when, when the router is deployed in a large and complex network, such as China mobiles to see them that. So, therefore, we define type 1 and 22. Count the number of routes rejected by the, root threshold more precisely is the number of post policy ravine no, revving roads. Which are those that will not be loaded into the local rep. And types 3 and 4. Defined the number of post policy reviewing rules rejected due to license threshold. License customer slash, root threshold restrictions. And next slide, please. And where to find the Type 5 and 6 to count the number of roots rejected Due to the AS pass, for being too long, and the the number of each I find is Sapphire. Okay. Next, Next slide, please. With the deployment of RBKI. And monitoring status statistics for RPKIA are expected to be increasing popularity in this draft. We also define"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "tough 729. To count the results of route origin validation for 3 results of validation invalidated validated and fun with fine. Sorry, step this to load times. Next slide, please. And as for a robot, we also define the statistics for the roots rejected by the, as past last threshold. And next slide, please. And, statistics for the a road to our region validation. But differently, the RFC ADA and Navistar specifies the real routine validation behavior or root of, of, of, of, of, of, of, whether the router supports the RFC will affect robust statistics. Because, egress policy may change the result from invalidated to validated or vice versa. So we suggest that, reports, reports, statistics, types for root origin validation should not be applied if the RFC893 is not implemented in router. And style. next, So next slide please. So I think this is all the use that, that time, so we define here. And thank you. Annie, Commerce welcome. Jeff has. So we've chatted down the list about the contents of the different counters you're requesting. I have no further comments on them. You know, that conversation can continue. So this is partially addressed to the chairs. We adopted, bookings draft for some counters. And part of the conversation we had at that time is these things are now available. Thanks to John, mostly first come first serve. What we're really looking for is having working group review on, you know, any of the counters coming in, even though we can do first come first serve just to make sure the things make sense. And, you know, as he asked on the mailing list, could we just bridge the documents No."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:02",
    "text": "And I had a conversation about this week. We don't really care. What we're fundamentally looking for from the working group is a reasonable way the pipeline review of the new counters, and quick assignments so code can happen. I hear you. Thomas Kraff, can you go to a slide number 4? Great. I made a comment on the on the mailing list and I think also, Jeff, commented on the the first to, counters that it is hard for an implementation basically, routes who are being, already being dropped to be monitored. And here, my proposal is the following that this counter is being changed, that basically we see how many routes we have left until we are reaching actually the maximum limit And we are leveraging, what Paulo just, showed us before we event, looking that we actually to pass the routes who are being dropped that we, locking them and then Basically, we have both of that until we're reaching the Mac. The maximum limit we have to count as you are proposing. And we have the the event logging. And for the second thing on the license customized route, Sreshold. My proposal is here. Since this is more vendor specific. And I think Jeff commented that also on the mailing list, why not using the the, the the enterprise TLCs for that. Thanks. I'm really a folk, maybe I'm completely confused these stat counters look to me like something that I would like to see in some young model Sir,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:04",
    "text": "Pardon? No. I'm not I'm not I'm I'm I'm not a fan of ASN 1. Is this confusion or And well, okay, kind of, the, in the young model kind of the, the thing that I like is, well, okay, I actually get symbotic names in, instead of numbers. I'm trying to put myself to queue. Jeff has so wearing my hat is the one of the editors for the Bgb Yang model. And this is actually a useful com generic conversation back to the working group. All these things that we're putting in the stats Most of the existing ones are covered by counters we already have in the model. So valid observation. For each of the things that are new, including the ones for the presentation here. One of the discussion points is easily can these things go into the Yang battle? Answer is, Yes. At Yang is very friendly about allowing for augmentations to models. N. Snowed At the moment, the IDR module is not actually shipped as an RFC. If it's a counter that makes sense to extend that is already well covered, Great. Great. It's something that isn't, draft a augmentation model. That's no wonderful. Think there could be good conversation between, you know, grow and IDR chairs as to know, who should own the Yang module itself, you know, doesn't necessarily have to be an IVR, but that's probably a more natural place for it. I think it's actually, better to probably centralize the work in one working group in terms of where counter is defined, and that the review happens between both working groups when we're to that point."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:07",
    "text": "Ben, welcome, Lauren. So following on, kind of, following on from that, it kind of feels to me light, what we one is not a vast number of new definitions of new counters. And more a general purpose way of saying send me this leaf from the BGP Yang module. In BMP. That that mean, that feels I mean and and, I mean, to to your other point about where does where where does it make sense to define these things? I think IDR is the natural fit for the simple reason that it's likely to get more review from implementers there. To check whether something is actually not doesn't require Magic in order to you know, compute the counter. A a future that consists in reviewing a perpetual stream of new requests for BMP Statistics. I, I, I don't, I don't really wanna live in that world. Yes. I I want you to live in that world, and I want to have a general purpose mechanism consume it when I need Alright. Next slide, please. Okay. The draft and, and, and, This problem is defined definition for aggregated the MP road to monitoring message. BMP routing a root monitor message are used to in and to send incremental BGP rules of a pair announcements and withdrawals to as a monitoring station, as, BMP protocol continues to expand. More and more RM messages are being sent to the monitor state"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "which makes it a warm overwhelmed and make many of the messages are duplicated. Next slide, please. The current Next five, please. Okay. The current RM messages structure is illustrated as follow consisting, common hatter, pure hatter, and, BGP password tribuilt. Ever, BGP BGP update PDU. The BGP update PDU can be further divided into BGP password prevails and prefix. Under the current message structure, when the router has and peers and need to send this the same perfect to them, the rotor needs to package them the, the prefix end times and assembling them into and RM messages and, sending them to the monitoring station 111 and times. So It's apparent in late date that that this message is inefficient and increase not for loads. And it, it's easy to cause, monies race stations to crash. Next slide, please. So So we've defined, type of aggregated BNP monitoring message composed of a common header, multi peer header and BGP update video. The newly added multi peer header contains a variety of per peer header each followed by unique PG, BGP pass attributes related to the per peer room. Related to the peer route peer router. The common past attributes and prefix are still retained in the, BGP, update video, by extracting unique password trivials and combining them into the multi peer header, we can combine multi whole RM messages into 1 aggregated RM message."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "Which will significantly reducing the, the the that duplication of common header and, common for fix, common and passive free bills. A more next slide, please. I'm moreover by merging multiple RM messages. We can reduce the number of packaging packaging and sending times, as before when, Rooter needs to send route updates to impairs, it would packaging and RM messages, and they send them to the monitoring station one at one end times. However, with the aggregated, our messages only need to be packet once. And send them send send it to the monitoring station. Next slide, please. From the table, we can see the difference between the ordinary RM message and aggregated RM messages. I would get to the RM message reduce the packaging and payload of common header common BGP password tripping and prefix. Or 21. This is a red red re reduce red action of n-1 times. So it will be a very effective and considering that. And here is often a large number. In in reality. So The next library set is all I have here. Any common welcome. Jeff, So this implies something about your implementation storage, you know, quoting somebody else. I don't necessarily object to the format. No. It's a it's a reasonable logical model to represent the state."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "I'm a little concerned that this sort of splits what BMP is doing in terms all the various extensions for the, you know, Palo OBMP show. And make it difficult to maintain things in more than one place. But beyond that, my main concern is for internet style routing Path attribute sharing is relatively low. You know, the average used to be about 5 prefixes. Was the average number of shareable prefixes for a given set of half attributes. So you seem to be implying if I'm understanding the proposal well go, multiple peers sharing the same path attributes, and here are the prefixes per peer. Is that correct? Can we talk to the fabricate and the phone And before, Okay. This this one. Yeah. This one. And they aggregated BMP root monetary message is Oh, we we define we extract the You need the unique BGP passive rebuilds. And and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and the and BTP passive triples. So the common BGP password failed and prefix are retained in the in this in old position. Okay. So you're refactoring the path attributes for some fee pieces are shared some pieces are not chaired. Yeah. In and in their a report in In the see, situation is Sure. When a router receiving prefix from one of his, one of its peer and and and wants to send into 1, 2, 3, 4, in, in peers. So this is, situation, we want to to, What was to show the aggregated bitch period are a message k?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:03",
    "text": "list. I think I understand your proposal. I'll send further comments to the mailing Ben work online. I think that this is Doable in principle. I'm just not I'm not convinced that it's actually desirable in practice. It feels like I thought I I think there's 2 potential problems with it. Firstly, it feels like you're moving work from, from, a probably not that resource constrained monitoring station to a highly constrained router producing these messages. Which doesn't feel like a sensible trade off to me in general. And the second thing is one of the nice things about BMP is the high fidelity that you get of the actual original message. And as soon as you're doing this kind of kind of reformatting and munging it. It's it's quite difficult to recover what you're really looking at if if what you're looking at is not strictly malformidness, but nevertheless, causing issues in practice messages that arrived on the wire. If you're kind of ripping them apart and kind of repack lacking them for efficiency, you lose that kind of level of insight. So I don't I don't object to existing so much, but I don't see a world in this which this is useful for me, and I suspect that probably goes for quite a lot of other people. Okay. Thank you. K. We have 2 more in the queue. Please keep it brief. Because we we're gonna run over, by by 2 or 3 minutes. Maria? Hello. My, Seize Nick, the developer of Bert, I'd like to comment that this is going to be a horrible thing for implementation. Because, in the BMP and in BGP, we are picking basically by the whole set of attributes and, looking for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:03",
    "text": "paths, which have the same prefix Based the same attributes, or if it's the parts of the attributes and then Finding those those common parts of the path attributes. This is going to take much more resources than just sending it out. So I am saying even though if this would become RFC, We are not going to implement it at all. Thank you. Alright. Paulo. You're the last one. Yeah. I had the a few comments. So first is, like, What problem is is this solving? I mean, did you test this or did you test the impact? So this is going a little bit in, the direction that Jeff was saying, like, what is really the sharing of attributes that you have here, have you measured anything, so that you one thing. There is a second thing, I am mostly relying comment that we discussed with, with Thomas, like, because we read the draft and we were a little bit puzzled like what is applicability, like you have other being pre policy post policy, low creep, other about pre policy and postposit. To where this applies because we were wondering maybe this applies only to us about policy. A little bit of mimicking the peer group idea that you have in the GPA. I don't know. We were a little bit personal yet another comment is that, like, there is no relate like, okay. This draft this about the root monitoring, but you have So peer up and peer down, for the BGP sessions. So those that aspect was not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "really tackled And last comment, is, sorry, I'm going fast but the last comment was that, like if this even would fly and IE be honest with you, I agree with what bank and Maria they were saying, like, this this is this can be very impactful on in the in the wrong place. You know, and why to save bytes on the wire. Writing, for a monitoring protocol that is, you know, probably wrong on a management network. Right? So, if we this would even I, I don't know, fly. I would say I would much rather see, something, at taken with the TLVs because we are putting in place a whole infrastructure with the TLVs and things like that. Rather than, multi peer header and a new message type and things like that. So those were my comments, but we can discuss more later, I mean, if you if you prefer, I wanted just to Okay. That would be nice. Thank you so much. Hope there will be more follow-up on the mailing list, that is the best place to, progress the discussion on this. And, again, my apologies for not being able to whip up the the correct slide, like, the last moment, rawer. Hopefully, next time it goes better. Sango, Okay. Very, very quick presentation. Jeff promised 2 minutes. 2. Questions, what do you have the slides with that? So I'm presenting this on behalf of 1 of customers at Vodafone who is, Doing his first IETF bit of work. You know, again, this is basically a slides worth of no slide and then a question to the working group. Next slide. So TCP AO is being used regularly for BGP. It works great."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:03",
    "text": "Our implementation at Juniper uses basically the same code for BMP. This means that our BGP, our BMP, gets all of the TCP AO niceness. TCPO is not specified for BMP. What do we wanna do about that? So it's, and there's basically two places you know, that can go. Thing number 1, you know, just like IP 6 not specified. But, you know, that one's sorry. That one is actually used, but it's not common. Well, that's the problem. Happens if we want to just say arbitrary encapsulations can be done? You know, what thing in TLS or whatever. Yeah. So question is basically, do we want to say yes We're willing to do a trivial RFC just to say, yes, this is a supported profile. The desire from Vodafone is that by having this in the RFC series, It could be used to provide hints to vendors is an important thing to support. And given how BMP has become an important tool for people's operations, and in some cases, STN, securing it seems like a good idea. Option number 2, decide this is trivial. Just go do the thing. We don't need a spec. Comments. The closed. queue is I will I can I can talk anyway? So Yeah. Uh-uh. Okay. Oh, perfect. So so is there I I guess, is there a particular reason why we we would want to prohibit any stream based transport that the IETF specifies. Nope. Should we leave this undefined such that it can do all the things, or should we be explicit? The the request I've been asked the channel is at least this thing. So this is fun, as I'm sure you at least remember"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:03",
    "text": "of the most painful things about getting through the IESG back in the day and specifically through the security area was the lack of MTI. Security, And, you know, if we had had this, then would have been so happy, and it would have I would have been so happy too because it would have been less work. I don't really see a down side. 2, Publishing a tiny little RFC that says, here's how you do it. It just seems like goodness. So I would support doing it. With no hats at all on, by the way. Okay. So Where we will be taking this is a formal request to adopt this piece of work. 48 Probably two page RFC, which will ask the shift in short order. Thank you for the request. I acknowledge your request. with that, I bring this session 6 minutes over time to an And end. Hope to see you all at IATF 120 in Vancouver. Canada, here we come. Thank you all Okay."
  }
]
