[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:24",
    "text": "ah yes I don\u0027t know [Music] I did this one claims it\u0027s Monday it\u0027s Tuesday my bad all right good morning "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:32",
    "text": "everyone you are in the tea or trusted execution environment provisioning group if you are not expecting to listen to the tea you might want to move to a different room okay so this is now Tuesday how many are new to t p-- and to the IETF to the IETF okay so if you haven\u0027t attended any sessions we follow some sets of procedures with respect to how we conduct the meeting and IPR which is noted here in a note well which I\u0027m not going to read but I encourage at least the new participants to go through that we have from an an administrative standpoint I was able to come in dear and so I want to thank Stephen who\u0027s back there who will be our jabber scribe and Dave Walton iron-rich salts who will be our note takers and I did fix the ether pad link which should be the same link and I copied all of the notes for Monday on that so so just feel free you\u0027ll see a lot of text rich and Dave you can just start from him from the bottom thank you okay so with those logistics out of the way I just wanted to recap and note that we had a full session on Monday we didn\u0027t have time to have Dave present on the transport protocol so for today we\u0027ve updated the agenda to allow Dave to do the presentation on the updates that he\u0027s made to the transport protocol Honus is going to provide a discussion if you will and a proposal for how we can continue to further evolve the OT RP protocol and then Soren is going to discuss one of the issues that\u0027s been on the github so if there\u0027s time left there if not I want to use the rest of the time at least in the second part for us to discuss a way forward for the OTR P protocol itself and the drats so it\u0027s kind of loose in the agenda for the chair to lead that discussion at around 11 o\u0027clock because we needed some of the key participants from the rats group dave taylor is going to lead the discussion on the alignment there and so that will take about 20 minutes but we can\u0027t start until hank ligaly and and other rats participants hey I am the racks chair as well so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:35",
    "text": "resemble that remark and we\u0027re part of the name I\u0027m too close okay sorry is this better okay usually they\u0027re they\u0027re telling me eat the microphone okay and then we\u0027ll have David also talk about issue number 17 which has some relation potentially to the rats as it discusses the attestation work so I could front to leave the discussion but we might start on the Oh TRP moving forward leave that discussion in the beginning depending on the time so with that any other comments on the agenda Raven once twice okay so Dave somewhere not necessarily in the correct order okay for this discussion I am NOT chair I am acting as a document author and Nancy is the chair and our backup chair is our ad over there okay so I am just an individual participant for purposes of this discussion everything I say all right so this is talking about the transport spec and particularly the ARP over HTTP transport right in the future we could potentially have an OTP over Co app or something else transport but this is the OTR P over HTTP update okay this is now a working group document as of last IETF we adopted it can you go into like full-screen mode or something that little expend thing so yeah there we go yes okay so as I said this was adopted as a working group of document last IETF the document was moved over into the working group github and the github issues have been used for issue tracking there were three issues filed they were raised outside of github so I filed them by copying them into github and that\u0027s talk about today number three I claim is done but I\u0027m going to talk about all three of them and then the two are not necessarily completely done we will see all right so I\u0027m going to start from the easiest one okay this is the one that I claim is already done today where previously the transport spec was the one that said when you\u0027re going over HTTP write the headers have a content type right what\u0027s the content type for ot RP so previously that was in the transport spec because the OTR P protocol spec had not been revved in quite a while and so temporarily it was in there that\u0027s now moved both documents that honest we\u0027ll talk about before now have an I in a consideration section that covers media type stuff and so that information has been removed from the transport spec it was just a placeholder in the first place and so now all normative content and Ina considerations are not in here however informative content is in there so when it goes through examples of what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:36",
    "text": "your HTTP headers look like you\u0027ll see a content type in there is purely informative okay and so this gets to the point of the benefit of this is that when we define other media types such as what if we use C or which as the instead of JSON right the media type is different and so we just pick one of those as the example and leave all the rest up in the protocol special right because the transport doesn\u0027t actually care it takes the content type at hands it up to OTR key so that one I claim is done and so that issue is closed okay the terminology alignment Ming talked about this a little bit yesterday and so now I\u0027m going to drill down into this particular issue okay and so the labels on the boxes on the right are the labels as they appear in the current document at least they\u0027re this diagram doesn\u0027t appear in there but the labels for the roles that appears you can see at the top you have the OT IP protocol that talks between a teep agent and a town below that you have the transport the OTR P over HTTP as specified in this document and it talks between what\u0027s currently called the T broker and a thing for which is currently labeled Tambor and Ming mentioned this yesterday and part of the question is what\u0027s the right there and they\u0027ll talk about that and then below that since this is over ACP you have an HTTP client in an HTTP server and of course below that you have other protocols like TCP or quick and so you have a TCP or quick client and server or if you call it an initiator or listener or whatever okay so this is kind of your protocol stack right okay the architecture document as it exists right now has the green terms right the T pagent Tam and T broker are terms that appear in the architecture document itself the other ones don\u0027t appear in the architecture document so part of the question that Ming asked is is broker and that I had asked before that too I said both of us are asking is broker the right term for the OTR PE over HTTP layer okay well in the architecture Doc\u0027s sense when we the working group talked about broker before we defined the term broker as being the piece that was in that was outside the trust execution environment and therefore it was in a rich execution environment that was talking to the trust execution environments you have some Asian inside and a broker outside okay and so that was a division between the trusted world and the untrusted world inside the device okay now here you see a protocol stack and she said what\u0027s the relationship between the protocol stack and the dividing line between for the trusted and untrusted world in the reference architecture we\u0027ve been using the dividing line is in between Oh TRP and the OTR PE over HTTP layer so in between the top layer and the second layer right that was where we had in the reference one at least on the keep agent side on the TAM side we\u0027ve said the whole thing could be in the rich execution environment or there could be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:36",
    "text": "a dividing line between Tam and the Tam broker right we\u0027re at the top is in the TE inside of a Tam and the bottom from Tam broker on down is not okay that\u0027s also a valid implementation of a Tam well if you look at the left side okay it would also be a correct implementation of a protocol enough around the wire if you move the boundary downward what happens if you put say your TLS implementation so everything from HTTP client on up could you put all of that in of your te and have the dividing line to the re down be the Sockets Layer so tcp is and the regular Sockets Layer and everything from TLS HTTP all the way up is inside the TE could you do an implementation like that and be compliant to the protocols yes you could okay and so in that sense what is the broker right if you call the broker the thing in that RTE now you have a socket broker it\u0027s a TCP broker right it\u0027s not the teeth broker as its labeled up here all right so what I\u0027m wondering is maybe broker isn\u0027t the right term because broker is a term for a different axis it\u0027s the term for the axis of our ee versus t ee not the term for the axis of protocol layer okay if you believe that then broker is not the right term for either of those two boxes okay it\u0027s a different axis right secure and insecure brushes protocol layer right now in the reference implementation we put the boundary at the top such that your t ee code can be as small as possible right the farther you go down the ORAC who\u0027d you bring inside the t ee and it gets bigger and usually for security you don\u0027t want lots of extra code inside your te okay so the reference architecture is still correct as being as high as possible meaning great below the teeth tam agent but the other implementations are fine too okay so in the terminology alignment right now after thinking through this i\u0027m thinking that t p-- broker and hand broker is not the term that we should use in the transport spec it is still a term we should use in the architecture spec for talking about the piece that is outside the t ee right so that\u0027s my personal proposal but none of the documents match that right now and I\u0027m interested in what the working group thinks now that I\u0027ve explained that issue to you I see nods and head scratching does anybody actually have an opinion on this or so the document editors just do something ah an editor of a document coming to the mic Thank You wheeler I guess the the thing that I\u0027m then trying to understand is in the architecture Spanish we continue to use T broker then that terminology would flow to different elements on the protocol stack as I understand say right yes in one implement in the reference implementation meaning the way that we use as the primary example right the broker would have would be at this layer right the one currently called T broker and down but a different implementation could have a broker that\u0027s way down here right and so it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:36",
    "text": "would be different ways to implement your broker if we do that right and then that becomes confusing because then the functionality and responsibilities of that entity changes depending upon your implementation we\u0027ve already got the same confusion over here on the tam side because there\u0027s two h2 the tamp right the ree is so everything down or they\u0027ll use everything different if we remove the the main broker then what is that second row of boxes in the protocol what what is its responsibilities in protocol stack so I\u0027m saying I guess opposed is saying that if broker isn\u0027t the right name but there is still a protocol layer the second one down let\u0027s be clear about what its responsibilities is regardless of whether it\u0027s in the te e or outside the TV and then name and appropriately for that but what I didn\u0027t get from your discussion was what what do you think the responsibility of that protocol layer is so I can imagine two options right one option is to keep this prokhor okay and to say that yep you could implement in other ways but we\u0027re going to specify it this way okay that would be a valid option that\u0027s more consistent with what the documents do right now is to say the dividing line is right here between t page and t prokhor no te up re e down and on the right side it could be you know anywhere you know so we could do that and then their responsibility is twofold okay with just a proxy between the two worlds and to do the task that\u0027s going to be like I\u0027ll describe in a second so the other approach is to say they\u0027re two orthogonal axes right and the responsibility is to abstract the OTR P protocol from which transport it is right this is the plug-in for OTR P over ACP okay as opposed to OTR PE / Co app or whatever okay and in the other another issue as I come to you there might be two different versions of HTTP or not right so we\u0027ll come to that and so the role in either case all right but the second law in the first place and the only wrong the other case is to say I\u0027m trying to abstract so the oqp protocol is specified without any knowledge of whether it\u0027s HTTP not only knowledge of whether it\u0027s Co bad it\u0027s just a protocol you have to have something else so just that the analogy would be IP does not specify what the link layer is you need a IP over a few layer that actually does that that\u0027s the analogy here this is the OTR prayer o TR p over foo layer that does the mapping between the generic you know up earlier thing and the generic lorem everything just like we do for any IP over few layers 6lowpan you know IP over Ethernet all those things fit into that same category in my analogy so I\u0027m okay either way if we choose to say the reference design is just how we\u0027re going to spec it and we use the term broker that\u0027s okay too "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:36",
    "text": "but that\u0027s why the issue is still open because I want feedback in the working group the editors have had a little bit of a discussion and now everybody\u0027s had this discussion standing at the mic and so we can now have this that this is a design team but as they working your discussion so please I\u0027m interested in is nothing but t the broker at least from now it\u0027s represent a common typical case right we talked about the Dreamcast different possible implementations where people broke done luck that aligned as it\u0027s for architectures is written there\u0027s really the common case typical case ie was a te interface where it cannot historic access I was a more options that whether with a measured T\u0027s a broker if they HTTP collides they\u0027re able to be kind of the anxiety where the working people may be optional I think it for some incantation maybe is not required but I think take blueprint to the typical case for the time cycle information that in contact time all network stack cabina re which OS site I\u0027m not I don\u0027t have strong Kenyan there just fell initial would have time that what happening Architects coming today Thomas Ellis it\u0027s a little a plantation to the term provider\u0027 how they architect that stack we gonna cover HTTP the transported TCP saw a limit choose different ways and now we kind of a dictate more granularity there we have this a little responder right tip time broker the chakra print that and we oscillate a time to be the message responder engine that will have that force to roll and so whether we can live with that way but with architect document the product onto a transport protocol understanding that one said it\u0027s a big dilemma they transport over made one nation that tip broke about clients Island you have middle responder putting of HTTP right get a transport ballpark by HTTP they may be future under transport protocol that they may have different work there doesn\u0027t have to be sent me an architect\u0027s document I think they\u0027ve have deepened our may have a bi-racial here just check the clock debuts on tumor if she\u0027s going to talk about okay because we got lucky yeah I agree with me I think that\u0027s a common implementation case today so it makes sense to use that as a base on assumption we should add the other sort of discussion points or possibility possible implementation cases as you mentioned Dave into the document because I think it\u0027s important you do however recent very interesting point namely if you for example move to a less "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:37",
    "text": "implementation into the secure word then you could in theory get rid of many of the other sort of security mechanisms that we build on top of it you can actually make it then simpler and that may be something that we should think about that at least make a decision because like as we would see later and you still have them what we did that the application area created is Cyprus I\u0027m cutting the queue of Dave Warner by the way okay yeah so short short comment so my perspective based on your discussion is that what we\u0027ve been talking about in the specs is really an implementation and splitting the the layers here based upon what functionally was working in the prototype what I what I think you\u0027re getting at is we really should be having a protocol layer so the top layer is the OTR PT application protocol the next layer is really a presentation protocol is it JSON OTR PASM Wan no Dave\u0027s formatting and then then your next layer is is your transport whether that\u0027s HTTP or something else right but really that that second layer is not OTR P over HTTP it\u0027s the encapsulation of T into a into a format language now part isn\u0027t not true Honus is going to talk about that in his presentation yes I\u0027m gonna hug that issue until a future discussion item where we have no time but but I\u0027m not sure that so I don\u0027t agree with a protocol layer of ERP over HTTP I think we need more discussion of what is that real protocol layer there if we\u0027re gonna go to a straight protocol stack diagram and names of layers this issue is purely about terminology and the alignment when the architecture document and that one you have an architecture discussion file an architecture document issue talked about or talked about in the protocol right I want to move on to an issue about HTTP bindings that was filed by others and it has not had discussion much on the list and so I took that as saying people probably don\u0027t understand it and so I am going to say what he actually talked about in words here and I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s discussion or there may not be time for discussion but I want to point this out okay so the current model looks like the one on the left right where you have a device that has your teep agent in it that\u0027s the one that\u0027s being provisioned with code and personalization data or whatever and you have a tam that might be in say a cloud service or at least some other server "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:37",
    "text": "that it can talk to you and in between those you might have a firewall or on that and so because of that that means the connection has to go outbound from the device and so you see the red arrow is the direction at HTTP goes and a response the OTR p-channel goes reverse across that that\u0027s how it\u0027s currently specified okay because that\u0027s the primary scenario okay honor is Fogg saying well I have or I think that there\u0027s a case for the rightmost model and in his example he says what I\u0027m trying to do is I\u0027m trying to provision a te that\u0027s often the cloud someplace okay and I\u0027m trying to provision it from an application manage there that might be an app on my phone okay and so in this case the app on the phone might be behind a firewall and it\u0027s the only way to talk between these two is to reach out from the TAM to the teep agent and so you can see here the OTR PE and HTTP lines go in the same direction and so he says don\u0027t you need a binding for this case here that\u0027s what he\u0027s filed his issue on ok now even going back to our Boff and the poster that we had the discussion there at least this is my rephrasing hopefully I got this approximately right that OTR P is most applicable when the entity wanting the TA installed such as a user is different from the entity authorizing the TA installs right because o TR P communicates between these two parties the one that requests the TA and the one that authorizes the TA okay and so if those entities are not different you don\u0027t need a protocol between them if they are merging the same thing right and so the question is does this case happen in a cloud case right where the entity that wants it installed is different Finity that authorizes it and so you can ask is the guy using the is devices this phone is it actually have both entities if it is then you then maybe OG RP isn\u0027t the right protocol there or is it right maybe it is maybe it isn\u0027t okay that\u0027s what he\u0027s really asking okay and so for the transport spec right I\u0027m just at the behest of what ot RP working group was to do here and so for the transport spec I could maybe do nothing in which case we\u0027re saying out of scope never gonna solve okay can be was to say well we\u0027re not gonna solve it right now but maybe someday if it was interested in the working group we want to come back to that and so maybe we should at least change the title to say that this isn\u0027t all possible HTTP bindings it\u0027s ot RP over HTTP for this use case or something like that see is we could say oh yeah everybody else jumps up with the mic and says I love unders his use case we have to solve this now and so we could do that and we could do that in a separate document or in the same document okay I think the default answer I would lean to as an author might be be there any objections to my recommendation of going forward with B you got to make it quick it\u0027s kind of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:41",
    "text": "guys do it that would be a okay you\u0027re going for a because we\u0027re everybody my laptop I managed data center machines yeah I asked a colleague of mine that deals with T ease in the cloud and they said right now but no maybe someday who knows that\u0027s a paraphrase okay all right that was my last loss okay I think we\u0027re gonna move on cuz we\u0027re running out of time okay okay yeah so Hannes I think you\u0027re next [Music] okay do I have to click again yeah can you do something about this okay so we\u0027ve made a number of decisions in past meetings and so I thought it would be a good time to not only update the architecture document but then also reflect some of those decisions back into the protocol specification so they don\u0027t get terribly out of sync and here\u0027s some of the decisions that we we made over the the last few months or a year we decided to remove the support for the security domains and maybe deal with them as an extension we said that we would be using suit for the software description software updates in the line with that work of the manifest work as we discussed later we we also said that we want to leverage and at the station work from rats and also have a co-op based serialization in in addition to the what we already had with a Chaisson based work and along with that decision also comes to security wrapper cozy and and Jose in that case we also added the support for multiple de is not just one de which we had initially in the specification so a lot of a lot of changes unlike the architecture level conception decisions we made and service as I was trying to reflect those into the in the protocol document I realized that there was actually a lot of redundant text which had to be stripped out and sometimes not just redundant but actually conflicting statements and so things that we decided for example to remove the the trusted firmware text was still in there and so on so lots of other changes in you know in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:41",
    "text": "fairness we try to cover by the set of use case so I think it\u0027s that\u0027s perfectly fine in and we changed terminology we talked about it [Music] previously so as I was trying to to make these changes I realized that oh I\u0027m actually I\u0027m stripping out so many things and I\u0027m rearranging so much stuff and which led essentially to a new document ultimately which is why you saw this new document we weren\u0027t quite sure because it\u0027s a it\u0027s a bigger change from what we had previously to what this document is about and so it was submitted as a individual document rather than a working group document because you some of you may have otherwise gotten quite surprised and one issue that came up is how do we actually deal with backwards compatibility because initially that was one thing that when we started to work as you know before the history of global platform and the work we were doing that together on OD abhi I tried to see how I could have all these changes implemented but still maintain backwards compatibility - the whole thing changing even encoding which of course is kind of difficult to maintain backwards compatibility and so I I wasn\u0027t able to do that I couldn\u0027t see how I would maintain backwards compatibility before all the changes I listed on a previous slide and so essentially the question to the group for me was like how important is it for us to actually have that backwards compatibility before I go further in talking about how the this version actually looks like and if we say it\u0027s okay to break backward compatibility and have a sort of a new version they\u0027re obviously different ways to the debriefed isn\u0027t there was a brief discussion on the mailing list I call this version - Jeremy suggested that maybe it should have a different name maybe there are other ways to deal with this but I\u0027m trying to see what were you guys are heading on that so do you think it\u0027s it\u0027s okay to break backwards compatibility and and have something that is slightly different to what came into the group just because of the normally we wouldn\u0027t care like initially contributions the IDF are a starting point and in often at the end what comes out doesn\u0027t need to be compatible with what we started with in this specific case is slightly different because of the background with global "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:42",
    "text": "dot form and here so this one is a we do not have how pushing 1-0 in ITF right well I see there\u0027s no abortion 1 0 so the question is really about to any to maintain backward compatible with global kind of form push which is really state cross up the straight standard bodies right if the trick problem that way so it\u0027s not a wedding laughter I mean we do not have a woman operation document we\u0027re not occupied to the factory quite a big way because these team permutation some people have followed the prior I\u0027ve seek draft but we\u0027re not dealing with this yeah okay that\u0027s a good point um so in some sense there is no version 1.0 because they do that from work is also not finished so in that sense yeah good point when I try to implement this at tax past happen on-site when I tried to implement the what you might call the one who I know I entered a bunch of issues in the issue tracker that person in other words I don\u0027t think the previous document was interoperable with itself you could have an implementation of it that interoperation uh their inclination of it but you had to have more information in what was introspection so what that means what I believe is that there is no b.join specification in either body that is actually interoperable so if you talked about backwards compatibility you might say I want Electra compatibility with a particular implementation of the spec never be a better plane but I would like backwards compatibility with the spec I don\u0027t think that statement can exist from my experiences in implementers okay so a point of clarification in the global platform the OTR p specification document is not complete so the liberal platform called it team animal framework TM a team animal framework open trust our ot RP profile it\u0027s already adopted ot RP draft and made it a called profile for team animal framework it published in last December December 2018 it kind of a semaphore official website or not and in the hospital but there was a lot of work these kinda call for comments it\u0027s currently you know way beside public about a boy download so I\u0027ve says that is that way related yeah you talk ability deaf to comment I stay within it global firewall or they tried to do that but with for us by the way it\u0027s a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:42",
    "text": "different fund rate that particular is that put under t global platform at Emmanuel Nevermore but they still call it open trust for the course I think we if we publish something having the same name for something that is then different because they modified the incoming sort of version s worth inclined to furthermore compatibility with a local not possible completely a bounder well different things so I think there\u0027s actually two questions and that was the discussion then I was gonna leave at the end so but we can do it here and then we might defer just to give you so I don\u0027t know if you have more slides of course I will be I think a much longer discussion just trying to stay respectful of the time so so it\u0027s quick it\u0027s kind of important right which is why I\u0027m saying we need but I do think there\u0027s two different vectors that we need to discuss so to me the main change is a different question than breaking compatibility and the reason why I\u0027m trying to ask clarity the reason I\u0027m trying to ask clarity on the global platform Oh TRP spec is there may not be a breaking compatibility issue if that has not completed that meaning the global platform specification you know we need chocolate that\u0027s the we do they make it all official standard that they are there they\u0027re groups of members who all diplomat act as standard because that\u0027s a different way that we\u0027re gonna track IO it or not to control okay sorry I\u0027m trying to it\u0027s not clear to me so to the global platform are they considering a version of a document as their standard I can say so allow me to look there\u0027s a home of I know and allocated for 580 EMF I don\u0027t even a framework for them is it kind of fine it looked at that but irrespectively of weather so I can double-check but whether they finalize the work already or but it is still something ongoing as a sort of fun next I don\u0027t know I don\u0027t know how that process is exactly work but what is in this document that I\u0027m describing here it is not backwards compatible what have regardless on how it looks like so I think Hannes we should ask the two questions one is moving forward here in teeth does degree want to break compatibility with the current version of whatever\u0027s documented in global platform so that\u0027s question number one question number two is should we change "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:43",
    "text": "the name of what we\u0027re adopting for something else is that okay so if you guys have further comments wait and quick and then we can ask those two questions sure that okay so we\u0027re going the name change does anyone have any thought as to whether global platform made do their own revision at some point in the future and and by having an i/o and a global platform to dato there would be confusion right I think that should be when I leave the consideration for the name yeah if we if we call it do that or they can\u0027t then go ahead of us later and then call it yes but be silly we know whether platform was to use the result of this protocol that this working group provides yeah we don\u0027t know that I didn\u0027t know let have not express that the intention when you ask a second question I won\u0027t know because it depends on just a name change I mean yeah quick to necessary I just look at the top of my literacy isn\u0027t all fine I said it\u0027s abortion they\u0027re about to why it\u0027s a poverty review okay it\u0027s a static popular view non-affine medina say standards so um I come in the mic sort of pick we will have to have me a decibel meter here normalized okay so I\u0027m gonna ask the first one which is very compatibility unless you care in the order you don\u0027t know okay so the first question and please hum is the group willing to break backward compatibility with the current global platform ot RP specification if you\u0027re willing to do that please hum if you\u0027re not willing to please hum oh pretty decisive okay so will confirm that on the list oh good question okay so for those who are remotely can you just annotate on the jabber if sorry okay so for those in the jabber scribe there was pretty much unanimous consensus in the room that we are okay and willing to break "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:44",
    "text": "compatibility with the current ot RP specification and global platform okay so now for the second question is the group desire to change the name from OTR PE to something else and we can propose something but let\u0027s ask that question first so does the group want to change our protocol mean to something other than ot RP if you do please honey okay if you do not please home okay so in the front of the room it was slightly stronger for the know how about on the back like a stronger finishing okay so that is an interesting dilemma new version yeah I think there\u0027s lots of people who would have cared but they said yes we could yes oh you want me to do it don\u0027t care him yeah okay we could use it\u0027s actually suggestion by Heat\u0027s on consensus and humming in the IETF RFC is that if the chairs think that there\u0027s a mean for it\u0027s one we could say are there any objections to going with not changing the name okay so let\u0027s do that so that we can make progress okay so are there any objections with that for us to retain the OT RP name face um I think there might have been one or two but no nothing yeah yeah Dave all right I did and it was for the same reason I came up to the mic before I think if we we do a version two it could potentially creates a teacher confusion I think changing the name would be a clean way to just ensure that we don\u0027t have any teacher confusion or anything okay well I was I was going to go for a path forward but I\u0027d like to hear because if we do retain the name I do think we\u0027re going to have to formalize a liaison before we go that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:46",
    "text": "path and the liaison is there to help us communicate that to the global platform to get their opinion because brings up a valid point which is right if they go and rather their own OT RP then there will be incompatibilities and confusion when implementers and users of OT RP and they look at both OT RP v - then it\u0027s a visit ITF or not we should have the discussion we should answer some of these so rich hopefully you\u0027re taking the notes to both Dave and I have stopped looking at the ether pen so so I think that as someone who is outside of this working group and you know in a year or two down the road and seeing global platform ot our PE and RFC that\u0027s ot RP it\u0027s going to be extremely confusing to understand what is the relationship is there any interoperability and as far as you know creating a late liaison to global platform I think that that\u0027s useful but in in the interactions that we\u0027ve had on the mailing list with a few participants from global platform they\u0027ve been unwilling to open up to any changes and so even if we\u0027re willing to you know compromise some there doesn\u0027t there didn\u0027t seem to be at that time any willingness to compromise so we can\u0027t guarantee that that that\u0027s going to be the case if we have a strong preference to maintain ot RP we can explore the liaison but I think if we go in that direction we should ensure that we have some point where we say well the liaison isn\u0027t working and that\u0027s a fair point thank you so a couple considerations and maybe these are cute the our own PR Pvt pointer I\u0027m not sure I have yet to see any ot RP specification that hasn\u0027t been in an Internet draft format if global platform did one it would post date to the internet draft format the internet draft format has a little verb at the top that says it was contributed to the IETF for derivative rights that means IETF owns the name if there\u0027s a name change maybe that should get the local platform side unless I\u0027m mistaken about my facts right Mike my belief is the first version of it was a nice net draft that said that had the norm from the normal text it\u0027s the boilerplate in that draft that says that basically grants derivative rights the ITF that\u0027s an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:47",
    "text": "argument to not change the name uses slightly more than half of the homes or whatever says if there\u0027s a name change that Schouler flat french problem we own the rights to it it\u0027s a valid reason to save Rebecca Kennedy who I changed the version or whatever but if there\u0027s a name change that the the reason that I think I hope part of the time and this is required at the time for it for know was that I think that there is some visibility in terms of branding outside of global platform and the change in the name causes confusion in the outside little platform components that I already think of Cote ERP is being the thing that the ITF is going to do right and so trying to minimize confusion outside of formal is why I personally hope a little bit for no it\u0027s my answer attend to Dave\u0027s question but the main point I want to bring up was the the ownership of the name my belief is IETF owns the name from the from the process perspective but I mean Adam Whitaker ax Enterprise I just want to say I\u0027m from the outside this is the first time I\u0027m hearing this and I\u0027m agreeing with both your comments and yours it\u0027s going to be confusing and I\u0027ve already confused what\u0027s going on I had to dig deeper but just from somebody from a perspective of somebody who\u0027s trying to implement something at EEE and they walk up and they just google search and this comes up it\u0027s already making me want to walk out the door a little bit because I just don\u0027t get it I\u0027ll go look for somebody who has a clear understanding that\u0027s my comment on it thank you I\u0027m kind of smiling because you you agree with the person who wants to change in the name and the arguments for people who don\u0027t want to change the name is the best one is not really my decision but it\u0027s also I don\u0027t have the experience to make this decision but I see why this is a contention from the outside world it\u0027s gonna cause a massive rift possibly big dealer so to your comment Dave I I don\u0027t disagree with you at all my position is do we really want to enter into a fight over possession of the name or do we want to ensure that the community in the ecosystem has a clear path forward in understanding the protocols so it\u0027s maybe not a decision we can easily make right now so we maybe need to do a little bit more homework well and so I mean you can speak your piece and we\u0027ll cut the line there and I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:48",
    "text": "saw the confusion so what they ought to concern me I can leave with posts for the options but if I could they be able to win that one that we should wait a minute as an intention when we submit a draft to the ITF as a several email original sponsors by companies the intent to come to IETF and that was the interim Oracle Popoff so we should well hope right away to attend to the rights of name here but on the other hand in reality OTS the protocol a global platform with example him not OD IP agent that was in re Narayana I\u0027m not here as a tip agent in a Tibetan inna t\u0027ee nor re so the only some even term not a Confucian so turtle water this even written name or protocol by dancing terminologies or you try to avoid that okay okay so um for both decisions we need to confirm those on the email anyway but for the second one I\u0027m not going to post it as a confirmation but more as a we need to continue the discussion the third point that I had Hannes wish we can defer to the second hour because I want to give you more time and you only have five minutes left which was what to do with with the two drafts to merge them replace them or I don\u0027t know if you had so that was another discussion question so um I was hoping to get a sense from this room but uh this write-up is the right direction it\u0027s not complete it\u0027s a first version and and this is sort of the overview enough some further slides in the back explaining the details of each of the messages but if you guys didn\u0027t think after I go through this that this is sort of the right way to go then ideally a future version of this document would replace the other one it wouldn\u0027t we wouldn\u0027t go parallel tracks and it makes no sense and and of course we okay maybe I go through this real quick and explain you some of the challenges I ran into some of them are okay so one thing that I did um it\u0027s sort of like a little bit in line with some other activities in the IDF in insert and in rats and so on some people you see DDL for describing these payloads these protocol messages and so I try to do that too which and the whole point is that the description is supposed to serialization agnostic I tried to do that I didn\u0027t quite succeed to make it really work across seaboard in JSON but I\u0027m hoping maybe doing this weekly I get some feedback on on how this actually works because currently if you look at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:48",
    "text": "it it has the constructs for the Seaboard cosy sort of or there the cosy constructs in there but I I couldn\u0027t figure out how to get the corresponding who say construct so maybe a limitation on my site rather than a limitation of CDL with the removal of the security domain management from the base specification of course the security domain management could still be added later as an extension if someone decides to do so um we are down to six messages which are the trusted app installed at trusted up the lead the install is also an update the success and error message and in the initial messages the query requests and a query response the DA software is now described as inform of a suit manifest and the same is actually true for the personalization date that we talked about this aspect yesterday in the context of the data time and that we need to find out from an architectural level on how we actually do this and whether we really need the concept of the data the more weathera can be merged to get out of the generic term but it from a practical point of view it has no implications but having a few examples there would definitely help I believe the personalization data as well as the the software can be signed and or encrypted and the manifest also has a way to identify their trusted applications and this is this is how it\u0027s done I also tried to come up with a sort of very much like the OT RPE specification did initially to have a sort of a common header a common message concept which is of a type which indicates what the type of the messages are the dokkan the token is actually a sort of a combination of them no there\u0027s a token ensures the request and response matching the is that true no I made a mistake on the last and the last point that tit and the RIT which was an OD abhi I couldn\u0027t figure out which one was we used for what it\u0027s actually I think it should be combined into one which is the token one structure so it may also be just me that I couldn\u0027t figure it out but um but yeah and then there\u0027s a message style which is there\u0027s an out of rapper this is the security rapper that comes along with it which is just yeah that\u0027s what cozy and and Jose provides there\u0027s a support for extensions because anticipating that some people will extend the mechanism this is India as well as specifically since we talked about this aspect of the security domains and the provisioning of keys "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:50",
    "text": "due to the the be as we discuss later for at the station we make use of eat which require this nuns to be included in the request which is then used to guarantee freshness of the attestation response that comes back from the device and I will fix the last line here so that\u0027s um so from a design point of view on on how I did it here\u0027s how it then this looks like so it\u0027s it\u0027s quite conceptually quite simple so here the here\u0027s the this wrapper so we can be signed Mac and then this is for the for the message itself because initial message is the request is digitally signed the response is digitally signed but then subsequent message make use may make use of a symmetric key cryptography for example if you if you need two keys to encrypt something in India these type of messages and the wrapper is outside obviously yeah and then this is how this query request looks like so there\u0027s as I mentioned this common pattern this type this is the message type and there\u0027s this Doku for the request response matching and in this the couple of items this is sort of the the request with a couple of a data type this items which indicates what you\u0027re actually requesting that device to return at the station information other information the few items I listed here so at the station information or do you list do you want to get a list of the the trusted applications in start because one can imagine not not with every request you really want to get all the data again and again and again and then this is sort of a cipher suite negotiation or indication because subsequently the device may also provide a response back for example the by using the symmetric key algorithms and obviously have to indicate that somewhere what the server actually supports does the the nuns that I mentioned beforehand which is optional which is then used for the attestation mechanism and also the version a sort of diversion indication and that was also in in the first version of or the earlier version of old ERP and endless the OCSP data also optional if it\u0027s needed and in response I\u0027m not going through all the messages here just give you a again so this is then there was the response back there\u0027s a pipe token of course the type is the response message the token is corresponds to what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:50",
    "text": "was previously sent and a request um the cipher suite selected out of the available ones if they\u0027re more than if there\u0027s more than one version and then which one is selected in tiers they eat the token the TA list and and potentially extensions that are being used and supported by by the device the success error message and so on going straight to the open issues I mentioned already that this issue of getting the harmonized description so that we don\u0027t have to have different versions for SIBO and Chaisson in in the discussions also yesterday we had the debate of whether we need additional fields in the outermost part so to actually allow routing of the messages to the right place as they traveled to a from the de from the agent all the way to the dam they need to be routed through the Pro client was vice-versa so if there are multiple times and potentially multiple des on a single device they may we may need some additional fields that needs to be investigated that wasn\u0027t there in the first version either we have to provide a little bit of text on how the OCSP data is actually encapsulated on whether we are just reusing for example the OCSP stapling from from the TLS specification or something else and and also a more procedural issue algorithm recommendation since we are now covering a wider field of use cases than before it doesn\u0027t make sense to have the algorithm recommendations in the specification itself and does it make sense to use it for different profiles different recommendations because a smartphone developed has different sort of I will use different algorithms then let\u0027s say a low-end IOT device yeah and the the mapping so the previous version of the specification described or went into great detail of mapping or explaining how these messages actually mapped with a Chaisson ko\u0027s jose encoding and i think we need to add the even if we use CD DL we still have to provide some of that information and put that back in it main need to look a little different but um I\u0027m looking for to Ming and David for help on this issue and examples obviously would be very helpful we had some of the examples in the previous version and and of course those need to be updated which we would have to write code for to actually have these examples presented in a meaningful way but we didn\u0027t start the coding of this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:51",
    "text": "version yet because obviously because of auditor design decisions are still in flux means good starting we try to collaborate support of SIBO different civilization also this actually change as a we will spend too few more for lab work began the warmth of those Suki is now saying what had one means a TA how different yet and in response is a mother and I got tid I would if I format what\u0027s a working ta information and some will go to the attestation sir excitation return say what T you\u0027re running on either information about T yourself running environment but he what he worship the incumbent ta say what ta ID what ta version name and other information so in price factor tried to space by those he won\u0027t self content document so now it\u0027s a we may consider the key equations sound so you see belong to this LTI respect some so we collaborate say what\u0027s a dat will contain right leave menticles there and what t annotation if may need to go there and we will define those so that\u0027s a further detail will continue expect comment on that IP that now can work the t ID and our ID into non static the intention of our channel 2 values are were t item is chessick ID our item is request ID we used to is say you may have a sequence of actions sickness of who requests where first one so we\u0027ll correct request request first the stats name followed by uninstalled here or up a TA action but if TR exists our update year if it balances installed yet so where they may use the same tid trance academia but issue requests always has own unique ID so I can to audit whatever I have a unique ID to track that\u0027s a request ID but try an egg charm say if I sequence of things I have another idea I can collate that that morph of numerical April taken games there you have a single giant Asia I wasn\u0027t yeah I wasn\u0027t quite sure how I could use it because if I if I do a request um to get the the do it Theory request and get a response back what prevents me to do another request to then say install app why do I need to have a transaction consent security is normative it\u0027s a more kind of basic practice so start aware smoke we\u0027re status most party qualifier just another you start yet "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:51",
    "text": "today to come I can always start a new core 8 the my status my state I guess last week which may have been lost by respondent come back so this junior but if it coming to multiple and they are correlated up to provide additional information so there was an antigen for saying you for saying I think I couldn\u0027t see what like what feed what functionality is missing if I don\u0027t use this yeah so in the interests of time I think okay yeah no and we can yeah the deep there\u0027s obviously up for discussion okay so was that your last night um yeah so that this is all I had yeah okay so how many in the room had read the draft she was asking what are you ready have you read the draft you better have you wrote it you know I wrote I didn\u0027t read it I was seeing bright only money I think we\u0027re good yeah well I fine because part of the discussion is that I wanted to extend is what the group consider this is a potential replacement to the current adopted ot RP draft yeah so my co-chair is recommending that I could ask that question so um I\u0027m trying to think of how to freeze it okay we\u0027ve already asked about is breaking backwards compatibility okay okay and so we said given that Honus is proposing a number of ways that break backwards compatibility and the working group has consensus to break records compatibility is this a good start for breaking backwards compatibility well and I I was gonna but that\u0027s a different question I\u0027m just going to the tactical so let me go to the tactical the question is is the group willing to adopt and replace the current adopted ot RP draft with this one does everybody understand the question okay so are you an agreement "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:54",
    "text": "that we should replace this draft make well he quick question no that\u0027s the no you can say yes no and don\u0027t care so I\u0027m asking that yes oh okay okay so as it as a group we have agreed that we\u0027re going to break compatibility so he has proposed a new draft and he\u0027s just walked through the description of how and the line with some of the work that\u0027s happening in the IDF okay yeah we have to confirm it I mean we have to confirm all of this and take it to the list anyway right so trying to get a sense of the room so again the question being posed is are you an agreement that we should replace the current ot RP Draft with what\u0027s currently called the OTR PV - proposed draft please hum if you agree with that okay if you don\u0027t agree please hum okay and what about we don\u0027t know enough to make a decision please hum that was a little stronger than than though okay so well we\u0027ll continue this on the list so Hannes until we get more clarity we\u0027ll do the adoption once right okay [Music] okay I want will discuss some use cases used using IOT for DDoS and I want to present use cases and see how do we go "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:54",
    "text": "about it is it part of tip or not so as you know and you don\u0027t there are some references in the draft there is increased the number of attacks DDoS lately especially growing with the fact that the number of IOT devices increase like 50 times 50x a year so there are if there\u0027s no protection that could be a very dangerous improve reduce the u.s. there are three ways to connect devices through outside the ta the problem is that devices like that don\u0027t have any communication outside they are less useful for attacks but the ones that are entitled to send the transmit messages outside are more conduct so they could be connected directly to the time they get corrected the our teeth broker or be community using T on multiple tabs so those are the three ways that they\u0027re connected that are potential being exploited by the jurors now question is can should t prevent such attacks is steeped in the tea charter I tried to put in there but it seems that they didn\u0027t make it in a sense that there are I Oh tea use cases but not those who are related gos so now the types of attacks are just some examples there could be others but those are the one that were encountered during the latest in 2019 attacks one way which is the most prominent is generate random traffic packets instead of data sent to legitimate data sent to operator or cloud mostly cloud the second way is reflector amplified the network traffic existent with legitimate traffic which is also problematic using the meaning the man in the middle to insert malware genetic traffic is less popular in the attacks that are observed the use the DMA traffic at much higher volume is one of the most used in the way in the last year or so 2018 actually and it can be triggered by a signal from operator or during upgrade or by tab so those are what you could synthesized from the papers that I read in this domain so I put together three use cases generic normal cell specific but you\u0027ll see that they are used in different types of IOT devices so first of all there are two assumptions that make these devices potential targets and generators device allows software upgrades which could in principle be unprotected and have inserted malware "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:55",
    "text": "devices we got back to a service provider public cloud if we don\u0027t it\u0027s less dangerous but we know that that\u0027s the case now the attack opportunities can be extremely externally triggered to transparent on packets or amplified data to SP and can be internally trigger Python those are again I\u0027m scanning what was published the second decade device is connected to a gateway assumption for this use case device receive software updates secured the other edge server and device is transmitting data outside the cells provider or public cloud so attack opportunities in this case are can be internally triggered by time to transmit packets like before can be triggered to transmit amplified legitimate traffic so there\u0027s the one that could happen because there is you know the the edge doesn\u0027t necessarily know if how much data should be sent back to the cloud and the third use case which is in my opinion closer to be useful for this for tip to take care of them or is the smartphone devices with rich auras which is in the architecture document that\u0027s exactly what it is so assumption form this is the device allows software forget again devices transmitting data to the service provider or public cloud and attack opportunities triggered you know to transmit random packets and can be very trigger by time which there is no mechanism outside that will detect and prevent so just to give you some examples that are here I mean there were attacks use cases like this one or the first category is the IOT sensors and meters health monitors weather monitors traffic controllers public cameras public cameras in what especially were used for these type of attacks and there is a paper in the draft you can take a look the second use case is there there is a home security and management system that actually collect all the information for RT devices in the home and then it communicate to the external to the cloud mostly and such example are smart building system smart cities which are pretty pretty popular and smart clouds hospital servers also and the third use case which is probably more easier to protect against I guess if we decide to do so is the example of smart cars smart air quality sensors building security system so this can be exploited less than other because they are the first of all their number is not so large the attackers generally tried to use large population millions and billions of devices to make it more painful and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:58",
    "text": "so there are some young use cases like small appliances we know as our device is not connected I\u0027m thinking things like this so you know there is a large population that could be used so that\u0027s the use cases that I looked and I studied and if you look in the draft you\u0027ll see some references I also wrote the Python code to test if tip device will be able to prevent or stop or minimize meeting a something and fortunately I didn\u0027t have I came to test it hackathon but there was no tip on the other side so next time I will try to draw because the point is that it could be that this is not a place I understand this but I just want to open your eyes that this is a dangerous thing it\u0027s a it\u0027s very damaging and can you know actually all of you could be exposed if you don\u0027t if you want I was twice in side 10 so you know it\u0027s it\u0027s real so it\u0027s painful so that\u0027s all I the question for me was do you think that should we make it a working group draft or not I continue to keep it alive at least until we have the hackathon in Singapore and decide if we want to exclude it and my point was that I tried to add these use cases that\u0027s why I wrote this draft to the architecture document with now I mean it was not accepted so I just wanted to show what it is yeah so there\u0027s one minute left because we need to move on and on the agenda so make it quick question so is are you assuming that that\u0027s legitimately signed Yahoo to get it to the T IDO that means the developer who was authorized do something incorrect or BR could leave and open a door a port that shouldn\u0027t be open for exam I give an example a stupid example but yeah yeah yeah yeah that\u0027s what I said it\u0027s not really in the middle because the intention is not the intention is just to trigger or something less zero but much more dangerous if it\u0027s enabled okay so let me ask a quick question how many people have actually read the draft Oh quite a few okay yeah so we\u0027re out of time so I think what we should do is continue the discussion on the mail list because I think you\u0027re raising some good issues that at least need to be placed in the security considerations in both the architecture and I wrote the draft because I was trying to make some points "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:59",
    "text": "and I also was out of times yeah no and those are very fair point so so one of the things that you can do is open them up as issues to ensure that the authors don\u0027t lose sight of it as they need to be included in both the architecture yeah yeah so thank you okay so with that are you presenting all right so I\u0027m now going to read a little bit of a discussion about teep and rats alignment right last IETF we got consensus and then confirmed on the list that yes we did want to align with rats rather than doing something that would duplicate some of the attestation stuff okay but that was a principle and exactly how you do that there\u0027s a lot of flexibility in right given that the OTR IP protocol may still evolving and rats is still pretty early in the architecture discussion and as a bunch of different variations and so there\u0027s a bunch of different ways that rats and teep could work together and so I\u0027m just going to present a bunch of different options I don\u0027t have a specific opinion right but says here\u0027s the different options that the working groups between rats and teeth could choose we could choose one of these or choose multiple or whatever but there\u0027s many different ways to put your ass and teeth together and so that\u0027s we\u0027re going to talk about here okay for those of you that have not been to rats okay the roles that are relevant here there\u0027s an a tester okay somebody that\u0027s trying to prove or assert correctness there\u0027s a relying party which is going to make some decision at the end of the day as to whether the ax tester is allowed to do something that the relying party has and then there\u0027s a verifier that\u0027s the thing that actually can make an authorization decision or it can make some authorization decision which may or may not be exactly what they\u0027re lying party is using okay so there\u0027s one model but I will liken to the way that humans use passports okay when I get my passport I go and apply to say the US I get a US passport and I can present that to people like when I\u0027m going to board the plane or check-in present that to the security people they look at that passport and says that looks good it\u0027s signed by the US government that\u0027s close enough for me because I grant that this is a valid passport right I can detect this as a valid ticket and so I let you through right so the human workflow is equivalent to this one right when you prevent a bunch of evidence to some Authority called the verifier what you get back is some attestation result that you can then present the various ruling parties right so in the human example the attestation result is the physical passport that you carry around right so that\u0027s the what I will call the passport "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:59",
    "text": "model that\u0027s my term I\u0027m trying to give analogies to non rats people as to human workflows that we use today a second example model which other people talk about and maybe other proprietary systems use I will call the background check model right so I fill out an application to do something and I feel in all my data or whatever and they\u0027re relying party maybe the the place I\u0027m trying to apply for a credit card or whatever it is in the background they go off to some verify and they do a background check me they verified all the claims that I made are correct or not correct and they may get some other data about my background I\u0027m going to make a decision like whether they\u0027re going to grant me back credit card okay so I call this a background check model okay and so here the evidence that the ax tester supplies to the wrong party they\u0027re lying predatoring goes off to a verifier gets the actual results and that\u0027s what they act on okay and so the verifier here is comparing it evidence against some policy reference values is this evidence good based on based on my processes and they get back an attestation result and in both cases the attestation result is what the relying party then uses to actually do some action so the relying party could have some additional policy that\u0027s based on what comes back from the attestation result like whether it\u0027s allowed to do operation a versus B yes I know it\u0027s Dave I know who he is and who he works for and how old he is and so on but whether he wants to do operation a or B is inside the relying party right there\u0027s two levels of authorization steps so that\u0027s kind of rats in one slide and all the other discussion is about exactly what does this eat thing is that evidence or attestation result are both okay like if you look in the eat document it claims it could be either wrong or you can use an eat for either of those and exactly which model is it and how do they relate and all those are possibilities within rats right now or at least within the rats working group different people have both models and different variations okay so that\u0027s rats in one slide all right now oh and by the way the verifier and one of these roles could be combined such as verifier and lying party could be in exactly the same device and so this could be a simple API call internal to the device not a protocol right okay all right in OTR P we have this where we have what I will call B a tester which is the TE you have a relying party which is the TAM and you have some information the notr pv-1 was called the device state information and that\u0027s the part that we says that looks a lot like the information that goes into evidence or the attestation request or whatever term that you want to use okay so we said that\u0027s the part the device state information is what overlaps with what rats was doing okay this piece here called the bi-state information now of course otra ap also takes care of install ta updating th deleting TAS and so on which I think was being remediation steps if I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:59",
    "text": "am not in compliance with the policy that\u0027s out there I can do something about that right that is in scope for teep that\u0027s not in scope for rats right teep says how do i remediating get you into the good state you\u0027re supposed to have this new version of the TA we can do that okay and so between this diagram and the previous diagram there\u0027s three or four ways that you could possibly combine them okay and I\u0027m not gonna recommend this is a survey right to generate discussions to say because different people may have different opinions as to which one they have in mind so maybe a lot more to accommodate one or more than one okay so let me walk through these here\u0027s an option number one okay this one is based on what we call the passport model they from where the past four model look like this we a tester goes to a verifier gets back a result and then passes that relying party okay here you can see Oh T RP is the bottom line and some other protocol that\u0027s not ot RP is back here so in here what happens in this particular model was saying what we would call the device State Information and the existing protocol would carry an attestation result okay in the de Grasse terminology okay and then the wrong party then uses that to compare against some reference values or whatever to make some decision based on what this entity is allowed to do according to his attestation result okay so that\u0027s the passport model option so here what happens is the verifier and they\u0027re lying perdy are just two different services that are both used by the same a tester right I do attestation this way and then when I\u0027m not in compliance I go off this way and I kick off the remediation flow okay that\u0027s option 1 option Q okay is where is closer to the background check model okay I take that that diagram and overlay it so you can see Oh TRP is again the protocol between the ax tester and airline party okay and you can see there party does the background check and goes off to some type of service that\u0027s the verifier and the verifier compares against reference values and so here what goes in the device state information is evidence meaning the thing that goes to the verifier not the thing that comes back okay so in here the ax testers passes information to the relying party and let\u0027s say has a get device state response on the back end it goes off the verifier and says is this the current correct state oh no this is not the current version you are not in compliance at the station result of the failure for example okay great I\u0027m going to kick off the flow so that\u0027s one example of a way to compose these okay evidence goes in the device state information okay okay I mentioned before that these two could be combined in our ATS model where it\u0027s the two different entities within the same device that could still be the case here all right same diagram as the previous one Oh TRP is here this is all inside the combined Tam that has the policy itself right in previously in deep discussions we kind of thought about it this way whether there\u0027s a protocol that carries "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:59",
    "text": "device state information and the ten just makes a decision that kind of fits into this option number three the way that the architecture document is currently phrased okay but when we talk about rats you know you\u0027ll be talking about evidence or attestation result from the by State Information or allowing either of them because different people have different use cases that\u0027s up to us to talk about inside okay so that\u0027s option number three okay now I\u0027m gonna have another variation where I\u0027m going to take exactly the same picture right here I\u0027m going to rotate the tester here down onto the bottom so it fits on the next slide okay so keep in mind that verify a relying party a tester so the tester gets to the verifier via the tab right because it\u0027s the okay so basically the previous one all right potentially three rolls I\u0027m going to take the Assessor and rotate it okay so here\u0027s the attest of the previous one which is these three here alright so OT RPE was the one that was over here right so here\u0027s those three but now the ax tester it wants to speak some other protocol that has nothing to with Oh Sharpie okay he\u0027s gonna speak some protocol like you know HTTP Year co-op or whatever to actually do some action in ta okay and so in doing so that other protocol that other relying party that\u0027s not the Tam relying party some other aligned party wants to have an attestation result in this example okay in order to give that attestation result the attest Garrett needs to go in the passport model the ax tester needs to go off to a verifier this is saying I can compose two of the previous ones to get this picture that says ok well one way to use the verifier from they\u0027re lying apart from the ax tester is to go off and get a passport for example this way here and pass it across to the other protocol there this does not work in the current protocols this is not in scope for the current ones the difference is today oh gee RP does not have a way to pass back an attestation result it can install a TA in a consult Co but it can\u0027t install a token or song or an attestation result okay there\u0027s nothing to do that so if anybody cared about this then one would need to extend a charity to do this which is why it\u0027s another option in the list of survey right the other ones could be done without protocol extensions per se this one would require say in addition even though PRP v2 to carry a token okay if you if anybody actually wanted to do this type of model right here okay that\u0027s the list of the possible models right all of these are valid or correct or whatever according different interpretations and use cases okay all right the rats working group has had lots of discussions about freshness so this is my summary of freshness and what that means okay yes Ohana\u0027s talked about the role of the nonce and so I\u0027m just going to lab right on that briefly here the information supplied to the verifier you want that to be recent and not like replayed from three months ago how do you verify that okay so the if that is done in the rats architecture by having a nonce be generated such that the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "information supplied to the verifier has to include that nonce and be signed okay and so okay our PV one has for example it has a request ID and a transaction ID inside the restate get state request and in the sign get state response and so on since the red Cana fish assures freshness because get device state response itself is sign includes the rid which is kind of like a knots okay but it\u0027s not inside the encrypted part of the DSi part of the responds it\u0027s only in the signs part of the response all right because it has an encrypted piece inside of a signed piece and so the nonce is signed but the nonce is not encrypted in okay rpb1 notr pv2 what hon is presented is there\u0027s a nonce in the query request and it\u0027s inside the eat in the career response which could be encrypted okay but otherwise both of these do have a nonce in one case it\u0027s only signed in our case it\u0027s signed and encrypted my point is the related discussion by Joseph in our case I want to explain my so in my opinion there are in all TT ones are things that are important for the use case that were talking they disappeared in p2 that was my answer so maybe because you simply find it you for example back at device state response world is not there because my concern that because you may use some function V 1 and V 2 are functionally equivalent the only difference is in this respect and freshness is the nonce is encrypted in the response okay for your information to make sure that confused just using the little knots just the notion of a nonce itself does not guarantee that the information that you received is still valid at the time that you received it and may have changed since it was set right or since you get around to processing it right there could be a race condition right and so for that you need if you wanted to solve that they need something that\u0027s more like channel binding right so for example there\u0027s two things that might have changed right the policy might have changed you sent the attestation request and so what words like that policy might have changed by the time that you get back the attestation result the policy that verifier might have changed okay and so what we did in OT RP was we said there\u0027s a time window when we check it periodically right and so when you generate an attestation response or whatever you make a decision that\u0027s gonna be good for a particular period of time and policy might change the mean time but you\u0027ll eventually catch it at this bound okay that\u0027s what we didn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:01",
    "text": "eat before okay and secondly the thing that could have happened is the device sent out some claims or you know state information okay and that might have changed after the device sent it okay and so here this is where you need something like a channel binding this as well okay you have a particular session that you\u0027re using to talk to the to talk to you you know the tab okay if the device state changes and the session goes down and you have to have brought it up so let\u0027s say you have to reboot to install something a reboot would have forced the session to go down and you\u0027d start over that\u0027s the class of things that you\u0027d have to do that or something more cryptographically strong in order to care about this otherwise used to admit that says yep by the time that I get the attestation result it may already be out of date I only have one more slide okay let the left slide okay in order to use the rats work for T purposes okay since razzes attestation for arbitrary purposes and we want to use attestation for a particular purpose right like installing th for example okay that means that the SF station result is going to carry a set of information okay but the rats working group can carry out information for just about any purpose we have to define what is the specific types of information it needs to be in there that\u0027s relevant to our purpose okay turns out that the architecture document already has a statement that says we\u0027re going to do this okay I think the smiling because he was saying yeah teach you do this well when they when they\u0027ve really made the update recently stuck in this particular text but has a shell right that says ok we shall do this the registry shall be defined on your therapy protocol so this is a requirement for the protocol spec that the architecture document currently makes as a shape that says we will do this and you can see for example from because this is just an individual submission it\u0027s not the working group document yet so this could become stronger in the future but the point is this would be worked for the teep working group okay presentation is here to place this in the arrows we can use the token you could yes from the attest that is the entity at the station choking at its best so to speak I have to highlight every claim in there is optional so what we will discuss in read tomorrow I guess at some point is can a flavor like you know needs tea flavors from it and that is a principle of the eat graph itself there\u0027ll be flavors for solutions and one of the questions we will discuss "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:01",
    "text": "this can aid as the original eat has no mandatory claims can a flavor of impose mandatory months can make for example denounce mandatory and I think in your case there are probably a lot of mandatory ones as options so that is the first thing and I think that it is working out quite well that would match then you have the attestation result rest isn\u0027t quite there yet but if you have an understanding that very far sometimes wants to say more than yes or no they wants to say yes because first of all firmware is not in my version also you have to read one every week you are two weeks at time that\u0027s all so now so install firmware rebooting and then come again into the decision so the static results can be bound to the actually claims and annotated or they can be something else entirely because they\u0027re specific to the policy dedicated so we have your sense of claiming flavors you have created it s this would be true droughts until which one was the attestation from the a tester name set mandatory national and the verifier to the line party claims that was sensational results continued and the T will be the first source of that ok Robin Wilson could you give I\u0027m gonna cut the line off at Ming because we\u0027re running out of time and I need to respect they\u0027ve wheeler also has a presentation on attestation so it\u0027s very useful to my mind I think you\u0027re going to always need combined architecture or not protector that can combine the two approaches you mean both options on background check and models from the a tester flow through to the verify the passport flow you get assurance of the devices identity what you can\u0027t get from that is assurance sorry to form a judgment based on the devices behavior and behavior it\u0027s gonna come from other sources so I think option 3 here or possibly if you go forward one more slide yeah this one but where the remaining pot you can actually go out to other sources and say well actually it\u0027s this device also behaving correctly right this slide is not another option it\u0027s not option for it\u0027s just saying this is an example that combines two of the previous options into an overall use case less useful to other sources okay that\u0027s enough the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:07",
    "text": "question I have is relating to the query request response exchange and whether or not the intention was that the key signing the courier request is the same as the key that\u0027s resigning the nonce and the career response in other words the signer of the attestation information is it assumed that it is the same key that\u0027s the signer of the curve the current response I don\u0027t know if I understand the question but I suspect that Dave Lewis presentation I think will answer it I don\u0027t know if David wheeler agrees that that\u0027s it he\u0027s asking that yet there\u0027s a query we request the new query response and they both have some cryptographic binding in there right right so so the David he\u0027s asking are we using the same key could be a symmetric key information which includes the knots in their response could be using a different key from the keys that signing both the the requests in there okay so let me let me allow David wheeler to kind of kind of address that in his presentation because we\u0027re at a time yep for those remote what David we were said as they\u0027re coming from different parties so they can\u0027t use the same keys I\u0027m trying to stall time you should be on your way up here because that was my last slide you\u0027re up next so as I\u0027m putting up his slides I\u0027m gonna speak as both teep and rats chair I think this is an important discussion to the gentleman\u0027s comments I didn\u0027t quite catch your name that there\u0027s there\u0027s going to be a side discussion on Thursday I think at 8:30 in the morning on the use cases hey come on 8:30 in the morning you can handle that come in at 9:00 how\u0027s that so there\u0027s discussion there on the use cases so it would be good strongly recommended that those get into the rats and then if and I\u0027m gonna suggest I\u0027m presuming that rats will have a virtual intern that Dave of your available you present those yeah the same slides okay so with that you\u0027ve got yes if you can look it up because yeah okay let\u0027s let Dave wheeler speak because you you have 14 minutes sorry so the what I want to talk about is some of the some of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:08",
    "text": "analysis that I\u0027ve been doing over the last couple of months on on different ways of putting together the attestation mechanism from our last meeting one of the questions posed to me was can we use the suits manifest to carry attestation for example and so the the current draft of the architecture spec says hey the attest is going to be the TE the verifier is going to be the tam that there are models like they\u0027ve Feiler pointed out I think one of the things I\u0027d like to say is that a lot of times the Tam is making the policy decision so they want to see the entire attestation token but there are cases where the the verifier needs someone else to verify a signature verify that the the public he hasn\u0027t been revoked or things like that so there there are different structures and different reasons other than someone other than the verifier looking at the the token we can talk about that probably in more detail at another time but the open question really is is around the claims and how do we structure the claims what\u0027s mandatory what\u0027s what not mandatory so from my perspective I I think our claims need to be well structured they have to be easy to parse they have to be unambiguous they need to be minimally self-contained so we shouldn\u0027t be requiring significant outside information to interpret them they need to be extensible because I don\u0027t think we\u0027re gonna get all of the right claims figured out here in the next several months right and they\u0027ll always be teased or other security policy decisions that the TAM might want to make that would require additional claims and then we also need to support proprietary signatures and formats for the attestation because current tes aren\u0027t going to change right they\u0027re still going to be out in the environment so for a team to work on those existing implementations we need to pull in some way to handle a proprietary attestation format so the the complexities as we start looking at this are you know we\u0027ve been talking a lot about SGX and arm tress own we talked a little bit yesterday about the trusted firmware and having changed certificates those things are all things that we\u0027re talking about we aren\u0027t talking about other types of virtual machines or platform based TVs where I may link other Asics or Hardware elements together to form my tea in in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:10",
    "text": "for example of VM and I I think you we had some presentation a little bit about should we consider you know cloud-based CSPs but I think it\u0027s important for us to think about how how complex some of these platform TUI\u0027s can be and make sure that we can link together the right signatures from roots of trust so what I looked at over the last couple months was can I use the suit manifest specifically to to carry the attestation and I liked that idea a lot but I couldn\u0027t quite get it to work in a way that I liked because even though it was self-contained and extensible and I really liked the way cvbl allowed us to do that it didn\u0027t end up being unambiguous because the the manifest structure required me to kind of redefine the usage of certain elements and I didn\u0027t like that the eat token is well structured and self-contained I think it\u0027s a good start for a dictionary of claims and there\u0027s some recognition for a need for extensions it wasn\u0027t really clear to me in the current draft how those extensions extensions were managed so I\u0027m sure that in the ideas of the authors and others in in rats they have an idea for how they\u0027re going to move forward with that it wasn\u0027t clear in in the current in the current draft so my perspective is I think we need to merge these together see DDL should be used I think to define the the attestation token now that\u0027s something that I\u0027ll push back to two rats and I think it\u0027s something that we should coordinate with them closely so that\u0027s sort of my proposal we don\u0027t really have time to go through some of the details that I have if you\u0027re you\u0027re interested in some of the the work that I did here I\u0027ve got a proposed cvbl for an attestation token that we can put into the protocol and you know clearly that that something I\u0027d like to work more on with others from from rats as well as t-table tomorrow um I guess there\u0027s a participant from from a suit perspective we weren\u0027t we haven\u0027t been developing the manifest to really be used for attestation I know so I find it kind of interesting that you\u0027re looking at it for that use case this kind of goes beyond just go for what we were trying to do and see it and at least be really confused as to what it means to actually merge - because I mean I are you talking about using cvbl in this case what trying to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:13",
    "text": "use the pattern that we\u0027re providing some of the pattern and some of the reuses in my discussion with Morin last time he said oh yeah you could put in a cos station token in here so and I hadn\u0027t ever looked at the the details of the suit manifest before and I was unfamiliar with CD DL so that was that was the purpose of of doing that thank you another suture so I think you said perfectly just now when I was gonna say and expand on your previous like you have a couple different options there and the third one would be to like merged the each and Superman defense somewhat argue against that and what you just said is a much better way to phrase is you could carry and eat in a suit manifest the same way as you carry any other file or binary aniseed manifests right that is appropriate and what we talked about at the t interim when Brendan presented here you could express just about anything as to manifest right it was originally designed as the primary use case for carrying firmware right but you could carry anything that you could be expressed to file or a blob and each is an example of something you could pass okay and so in my presentation where I said even the composed one if he needed to pass a an attestation result in a teep message you could do that by sticking it inside of a suit manifest right that\u0027s one way that working could do that and I and that\u0027s I think is your second option outside here I just used each over to the claim language right in which you could hear inside because you\u0027ve manifest in some cases if he needed to such as in the install ta to say here\u0027s your at the station token what different ways to encode it on your last slide I\u0027m also confused what you mean by the last one murder CDL e token I think that\u0027s what they have to say and yes if you can elect right on that one everything so so perhaps it was my misunderstanding in in my conversations with Rendon on on the manifest in in the private comm or session I had with him if he he recommended that we reuse some of the data structures and things like that in the manifest and that\u0027s that\u0027s primarily what I was trying to do I found it easier to just restructure those so eat the current eat draft is not defined in CD DL and I\u0027d like to see that reflected so that that\u0027s something something new I think that that we should do and I think the CDL allows us to express extensions better as the rats chair I do believe there has been discussions in the rats group and so if you have the time encourage you to attend we\u0027re meeting twice and so raising that and in fact we\u0027re going to be talking about the different token formats and expressions I believe on the Thursday "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:13",
    "text": "session okay and then Lawrence will be going through the e on Wednesday so you can express requirements okay I mentioned that the the the need are all optional essentially and that team is going to have some that are mandatory so it seems as though there needs to be some sort of keep specific profile or what\u0027s included or not included that seems like an appropriate about combining I don\u0027t know he made by combining the manifests but it seems though there is some specific expression of a manifest right so something will have to do and now I\u0027m speaking as both the team and the rest chair but when we do the IANA registry for the different tokens we\u0027ll have to consider I\u0027m thinking that we\u0027ll have to consider applicability and mandatory you know so we\u0027ll have to work together and how we categorize the inr registry for them right so one more one more point I think that that hasn\u0027t come out at any of these presentations that I is partly in the architecture spec is that there\u0027s there\u0027s an aspect where a tam is going to make a policy decision and they\u0027re gonna know ahead of time what specific claims they\u0027d like to see from a te and we need to think about ways for a tam to communicate that information a priori before the attestation is created to avoid multiple flows so if I\u0027m at am and I want to see your you know secure boot measurements I should have a way to to express that to you in deep and and say hey even though this is perhaps optional in in the t p-- specification for me to approve you it\u0027s mandatory and so how we do that in the protocol is something that I think is still open and it crosses between both the protocol messages that we need to create and in this whole one pass to pass kind of thing and the format of the attestation token oh yeah yes nonce timestamp other things like that yeah cuz when Commons did larger that concur what to naysay them NASA\u0027s say I eat rats I eat as it generate open format we need share attitude format what concrete claims she to be that she\u0027ll be owned by teeth at tbo hello exclaimed vegetation what is she to be yeah and they usually have a standard format so that\u0027s for that book then but policies policy and claim reduce it you mean teeth by policy about freshness that they may share active there are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:14",
    "text": "never policy women that just like oasis if it has by updation status similar right how long should it be acceptable saw Dave Walton Meyer I\u0027m probably not gonna make it on Thursday so I just wanted to make a quick suggestion and so you might want to consider having a registry of sub registries that would allow for different groups they have different registries that they could have managed themselves as a way to sort of organize this because I suspect that Heep is like the first of many other groups that are you know can want to be something in that a station space yeah I suspect we\u0027re gonna continue this discussion so all right thank you so we actually have one whole minute left and and we we\u0027ve made good progress blue sheets if anybody hasn\u0027t signed raise your hand and we\u0027ll pass the blue sheet yeah it\u0027s back there so quick question Hannes yeah if they yesterday evening and we thought it would be nice but that was their idea to put together kind of tutorial on for the next slide yes me being in hands-on tutorial for using sort of like these de technologies with what we are doing and so we were wondering on how many people would actually be interested in such a tutorial assuming they attend the next IDF meeting so maybe on a Friday before that hackathon starts or you could do it on the Sunday too if people don\u0027t at minimum Hannes I think it would be good moving forward since I think that we had two new participants if we had like two to three introductory slides that we could kick off the first session this would be more like padai okay so we\u0027re out of time but I wanted to ask one quick question and "
  }
]