[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:22",
    "text": "I will mostly do all the dummy things that I chair does, when sitting up front, my the the queues and doing the the presentation, assisting. And, Yeah. If you if if any of you've had, like, some more closer contact with him during the week, maybe you wanna do an extra test or something to make sure that you were also okay. Or that you're not okay. I'm hoping that you're okay and not as positive So with that, I'll, I'll hand over to Logan who will give, like, a a a quick, share overview, and then, we will have 6 presentations. Anyone who want to do some agenda bashing additional items for now? Okay. Great. Then the floor is for Logan. No. I think Goran has, I think question maybe. Yeah. I see I entered the queue. Yeah. Yes. Thanks. Thanks, Robin. Just a question. When I read when I now read the, the agenda, I note that there's one adoption called pending, but in the minutes, there was actually from the last meeting, there were actually 2 adoption calls discussed. Do you want to take that in all, any other business or Yeah. Let let's take a turn on your business. Okay. Thank you Okay. Thank you, Graham. So, just a quick update the most important update is about, we have a new chair which is team. Unfortunately, he couldn't be here. So, also I have three things that I'd like to talk about. The first thing is that we've got"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "for this session, Antonia. Who sends a slide for Ace. But it doesn't seem to correspond to any, existing item agenda, and we didn't hear anything from Anthony. So, we sent an email and didn't get get anything from him. Is he in the room? Or No. Okay. Nobody self identifies or identifies anybody else. Anthony. Thank you. So The other thing is that for the Draft IETF is keygroupcom with, it's under expert review. For a number of assignment. And based on the advice on what we sent is 2nd working group law school for itFA is working group coop, EAP because of a large number of changes that happened between draft 89. Since we send it on the 30th of October. We haven't received feedback. And we hope that for working group bots, but will take time to actually go through the changes and send the commands, hopefully, to be making this. Yeah. Indeed. And just to clarify it. So if if there's actually no comments, then, ISD AD will actually just assume that there no new issues raised during, in the changes in documents since it's left the working group and went to the ISG. So we're we're normally for a working group class call, if we don't get comments, we might say, like,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "like, without more feedback, we're we don't think this document is ready. In this case, this document is ready. This is just your last chance to see if you you see any errors that happens in the process between the document landing at the at the ISG for publication request is on all the edits that happen to the RFC editor. So no comments means you agree. So Thank you Thank you, Paul. So, that's it on on our side. I don't know if team is online or he's able to join Team, don't see me in the unlabeled span. So I don't think he has a new new words. So, with this, I think we can I can give a floor to sick down, which Sign them? Are you ready to start? I am ready to start. Good. Thank you. This is, giving updates on the Popsup Pro file, Next slide, please. This is a check whether you hear me or not as well. So, yes, there's a chat, but for some reason, I no longer have the advancing slide control. So I'm not sure where it moved to. Oh, I don't see anything either Mhmm. So it says I'm it it tells me I'm sharing slides, but it's not actually Hold on hold on. I will try again. Sure."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:10",
    "text": "Can you maybe try and ask for the slide control? Maybe back end will appear for me. Okay. In the meantime, I contact you. Okay. Lorenzo? Okay. Having fixed, Sorry. I'll I'll pass the control to you, Sigm. Okay. Okay. So, this document is focused up communication, particularly for co app clients, and it relies on several of the ace documents. For, communication security, server authentication, and proof of possession, for access tokens. And it mainly is a profile for key groupcom. The last time it was presented, it was in, version 6. Now it's moved to version 8 and the majority of the work is regarding satisfying the key requirements and options. And, quite a bit of work has been done in that leaving 2 still outstanding in each category. So going back to the differences between version 7 to version 8, the scope format was revised which was presented in the last meeting. And it extended, beyond that. So I'll explain that the differences. We also revised the joint request response to the security group that exchange Some of these were triggered due to keygroupcom changes regarding Xenon's parameter, now needs to be present in join requests. And the relaxed inclusion of Puros per meter in the case of pops up because in our cases, the roles are very well defined. And certain,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "permissions are only needed for certain roles like publishers. We also have the key ID now added as the group key, used as the group identifier. More detailed description of the encryption and signing operations are also now present in the draft with, more details on the construction of the AA genomes. And then there are several clarifications and editorial improvements, but these were the main technical changes to the draft. So, The authorization flow is now has been completed. The It describes how the clients, discover resources, at the broker through, unauthorized requests and learns about Discover's authorization server, which is an option in the a stock, profile. And then being able to join authorization request to the authorization server, to learn further more about, the KDC in security group that day needs to be part of. To enable secure group communication Once that has been completed, then the, client Does an authorization request of the KDC which enables it to upload its authorization, you know, when it gets the token, it can upload authorization information to the KDC. And then, request to join a security group. After this point, the client will be able to get the necessary key material to be able to do secure, pops up communication application group, it's involved. So now this flow is established. Majority of, the step have been well defined. The only part is the KDC the topic resource discovery, besides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "request to well known core, how to enable different ways of discovering the KDC, will be also included in the next iteration. Work has been done on the authorization request and scope, in the previous meeting, we talked about, a version of scope now, it's been defined very well. As you've seen from the flow, the client makes 2 requests to the authorization server. For 2 different audiences broker and the KDC. To get to tokens. To be part of an application group and to be part of a security group. Now these, requests the scope, contains the information about the topic that they are requesting permissions for. And then the permission details signals whether these permissions are admin level, which is not in the scope of this document, but was added to be, future safe. And then whether the permissions are applied to an application group or a security group. And whether these permissions represent a published read or delete permission, read also includes subscribe. So this has been now, finalized. The work that's been remaining is to add your playchecks at the scribers. This is going to be done similarly. To the approach used for OSCORE, then finalizing, meeting the requirement 10 and requirement 20. Requirement 10 is about, expanding on a little bit, discovery of the KDC. The current descript there is a current description of discovering to the through the well known core, but we're exploring other options. And the request 20 is about supporting group policies. Previously, we've we didn't, plan to support it, but now, optionally, it's supported. And now we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "to define the policy default values. 2 options need to be supported regarding rekeying. At the moment, the draft is scribes rekeying toward using point to point group rekeying scheme. And we need to provide additional information about wrecking mechanisms supported in the draft. And That's the plan for the next version. Which with that, The work for this draft will be complete. End of my presentation. Thank you. Any questions, comments, So then I guess we'll Go on to the next presentation. Thank you. No. Thank you. Okay. I tried to share. Share. Or no, you are a threat sharing. Okay. Do you want me to to forward this lines or whatever you want. Okay. Can forward them if you like. Okay. I'll give you control. Okay. Hello. Hello. Everyone. I'm on a cylinder. Wanna talk about the out of the score profile, which is now in version 3. So here's a recap. This is, The basic the sort of a sim kind of a simplified workflow is the optimized workflow in appendix A2. But it it's simplified in the sense that there are a few messages it's still a, perfectly reasonable workflow according to this profile, And it starts off with an ad hocplusoscore, exchange between client and authorization server, where adult plus o score means that we're using the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "The core draft, referenced at the bottom of this page, And with this, authentication, the client, can in the 3rd message requests an audience scope and confirmation like, in credential, what do you indicate with what credentials is gonna use to authenticate to a resource server for for which it wants to request access And then in the 4th message, the access token comes back, with the granted. Audience scope and confirmation claim And this access token is then passed on from the client to the resource server. In yet another run of end of resource corps. This time between client resource server, And the 2 last messages in that the 2 the last round trip in in of those 2 round trips is actually the the request request for resource, from the client and the resource, can now be authenticated, authorized communication can be protected? So that's basically an overview of what you can do with this this profile in this presentation, I'd like to go through the new things in version 3 some sketches on next steps, and also ask for working group feedback on some of the these points. So version 3 here are is a bullet list of changes in version 3. And next slide, we'll have more detailed information of some of these bullets. We did, a restructure presentation of the content and there is, simplified and, description of how we use edit information, we removed a lot of redundant information in both these two 2 bullets."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "Then we merged 2 concepts, identify our concepts. Which then, yeah, basically, were 2 different concepts. You know, we need 1, we also enabled transportal access token in the third message between a client for resource server, And we have to find semantics for for a new confirmation methods and then some clarifications and the tutorials. Let's look at some of these, in more detail. So this was kind of an effort, actually. We rewrote the the the, basic content of the drafts. If include the security privacy in IANA, considerations we re rewrote things and and restructured large parts. Which, we think is much more readable now. Hope, others also agree. It didn't change the number of pages. Still, still, 28 pages for the for the core of the document and that should that should that should that should Let's let's try to Hope we can keep it small. Yep, so that was one of the main changes, actually. Then we added 2 new sections, and this is essentially doing the footwork for being able to use all these seabor header, apps. So for if you remember, ad hoc, you can authenticate not necessarily with only with with certificates. You could use Zebra web tokens, or you can use Zebra web token claim sets, and there are other ways of identifying credentials So that provided a new set of of of cozy header maps. And here is the definition of the associated confirmation methods. So this is the CNF claim in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "that comes into the access token. And all this is basically mimicking the semantics described to this coaster cozy headers in other, reps. So for example, RC90, which is the X 509 for cozy, c509, which is the which is the course of graph describing seaborne encoded X 509, and a couple of heather maps comes from ad hoc as well. For for JSON Web Tokens, there is additionally, confirmation methods based on the JSON Web signatures set. RC7550. So that's a little bit of administration, but we need still needed to do that. Then we have this, merge of of 2 different concepts. So in another draft, referenced here, there is a definition of a token series originally coming from. Was in this graph, but we moved it to a separate graph And the general concept, when applied to this draft, token series is is like a sequence of access token updating each other, and series is valid this long. As the ad hoc sessions valid. So so be able to identify this series, we don't need a separate identifier. We can just pay attention to the end of session. When the ad hoc session change, bb token series change. So that's simplified, at least conceptually. And then we also introduced the term session ID in the adult information, which is kind of natural if this since this contains all the information related to adhoc. Okay. Then we have this alternative transport of of the access token. So in previous versions, we,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:04",
    "text": "we allowed 2 ways of of carrying the access token either as in describing the ACE framework, that you basically do a post to the slash authorization info. And in the payload, you put the access code. That's the method that's still is supported And that would mean that the access token is in plain text because that's basically first contact between client and resource server. And then we have defined in in in this draft, previous version. So this draft that you may carry there token in EAD1, first message of ad hoc, the external authorization data. 1. And that, still, leaves the access token unprotected as as in the case of using post slash authorization input. What we got feedback from was people working on a proof of concept for a certain industrial application, that they wanted to protect the access token. They want more specifically to encrypt t access token. Between giant and resource server. The client already knows, of course, what type of access it will get and what resources are relevant. So this is not so much hiding it for the client, but it's for hiding misinformation for a third party. And the good thing now, if we are passing the access token in message 3 instead of message 1 is that we have much further in the authentication protocol. So message 3 is actually, the EAD 3 is actually encrypted. We have, the client has already authenticated the resource server. So it's clear what is the receiver of the access token. So that's what we did. For this version, now we allow in addition to post rationalization info. Pider AD 1 or AD3. But the question I'd like to raise in the working group is do we really need to use this case of EAD 1"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "we need we really need that option. Or should we restrict ourselves to 83? Either that we have I mean, still we have the post slash authorization info, but we could also consider to remove that case as well. That that's not that's beyond what's in this slide, but that, someone has any ideas to have that So what I'm saying is basically that with EAD3 we get confidential protection of the access token, don't have to cash the access token. You don't need it basically before message 3 because that's when the resource server authenticates the client is there any reason why we should keep this in either, either one Anyone last name? Penny? No one seems to be walking to the microphone. No strong opinion. So then my proposal is actually that we remove it from AD one. And and and if we take it one step further, We could even consider for this profile to not allow access tokens being transported in claim plaintext. We could remove the post slash authorization in for this unprotected case because as you remember, how you update the access token later. If the client wants to have additional rights through extended rights, the client would make a request stabilization server. Innoscore. Get back an access token, and it would post to authorization info. Overall score. So it it would be protected, the subsequent update of of of access rights would be protected. So if we take away these 2 options, which unprotected currently, we would always have an encrypt the delivery of the access token. Something to consider. If you don't even if you don't have any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "input. Right? Oh, Marco has an input. Ahead, Michael. Marica Trolka, there is still one case if we want to consider the use of the alternative workflow, workflow, for uploading well, the first access token of the token series, going through GAS as described in that other document, that's at least one case warranting, to to keep, the option of uploading the access token in in all set input. So that that's a strong justification. I think on either the one I can leave with removing that possibility. I can see the point. To be fair, an advantage of that way, is that it if there's something going wrong, the execution will be aborted earlier, but the benefits of encrypting the token, the AD3, instead think, overlay that. Thanks, Marco. I have some responses. So first of all, in in case of the the alternative workflow, which is the case when the my station server. Is posting to the resource server. I think we should try to make that protected. Because there is authorization server and the resource server have a prior security relationship. They have established trust at some point. So we can, also require that to be protected. That's one comment. And the second comment about EAD1, Sorry. I I don't think that was I forgot the second one. So so it was basically saying that we could omit you were happy with omitting 81, which is fine. And, yeah, yes, you were saying that EAD 1, putting it in 81, enables an early board and I'm not sure that this through, actually, in the sense that if there is an active"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "Attacker. Then the active attacker can present the valid access token in message 1, and it can't be very right because you would only be able to verify that when you have authenticated the client 33. So, yes, certain cases with naive, access token being injected could or or accidentally could could be verified. But the tax could not be verified. At that stage in me. Okay. Unless there are other comments I'll move on. Thanks very much, Marco, for the feedback, and more feedback is welcome. So that leaves it with with the next steps and, what we have looked at in is, a little bit how we can compress the information in the access token since is the constraints. I think we'd like to to block information as as much as possible. And one way to do it, that is to make use of a lake draft called application profiles. Which is defining, a set of ad hoc info. With with an in as an integer. So it's It's basically if you look at the red boxes in the right hand side, it's basically replaced seeing some information of the kind of the second kind with that or the first kind where it should probably shouldn't be in a rage should just be the number 2, integer 2. Anyway, just a sketch to think of that the application profile, the cape handle capabilities could be shortened. In the interest of making this information more compact. So that time, something we'd like to bring in Then we've had a request, for group audience to handle one access token handling multiple resource servers, and there are different takes on that one is that we look information, for for different receivers, for that to have common information. And and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "that's not really sorted out yet, but that's on the next step we'd like to. And the 3rd bullet, of of this, is also kind of a major consideration to make is how we hand the proof of concession of the client private key against AES, in the case when that it's using different keys against AS and against RS. So we need to think about if we should define how to do explicit pop there is. Pre precedents in all the drafts we could use and we'd like to add more security considerations. Now of the of the type we we we just discussed on on carrying access token 83, and more reviews are welcome. This is the set of open issues we have on the table. So unless there is much more. We hope to be able to progress this for in for a a review ready interview ready, it's shaped pretty soon. Okay. Thanks. Thanks. Any questions or comments on this? Per station, Seems not. So we'll go on to the next one. Thank you, Karen. Thank you. you want to control of the slides, or do you want me to run the slides? Do This Okay. Perfect. Thank you. So, Kyle, this is Molly. I will be presenting an update"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "to the draft, EST Oscar, which specifies how to transport the ST payloads within Oscar. So the status received the review from John Mattson on 19th September. This was a review that went to the mailing list. And after that review, we did some updates and published toll free on 23rd October. Which partially addresses the issues trade in drones review. And the goal of my presentation today will to present the resolutions to those issues, that were raised in drone's review. As well as to discuss, the open issues on the issue tracker. So I will start with issues that have been resolved, and merged Please comment, interrupt me if there is anything, that you see off in this, in the resolutions. So Dean is how does the client obtain the default key of a server? In the case of enrollment of staff, the static difficult monkeys. So the context here is that when enrolling started the key proof of a procession can proof of possession cannot be a signature of fleet can, only be, a Mac and Mac is computed with the key generated from a shared Diffie Hellman Secret. And, essentially, to compute this secret, client needs the server public, Diffie, Helman Key. And previously, we what we'd what we were using was we were using an ASD function search. For the client to explicitly fetch the, get the, certificate, the public key certificate from the server using this function. John commented that this is suboptimal that it seems very inefficient, and he proposed an optimization to the flow to use the ephemeral key from ad hoc. When ad hoc press seats enrollment."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:05",
    "text": "And essentially, the proposal is to use the, that the client uses this, the ephemeral key that it see it in the ad hoc handshake from the risk ad hoc responder and use that as the public key to to generate, secret and, finally to generate a key for the Mac. So the action that we've taken is that we we explained specified this as an optimization where in case when ad hocandcombined ad hoc court delivery proceeds enrollment And we state that the client must use the public ephemeral key of the ad hoc responder g of y as the recipient public key. And this p PR has been merged and I would like to see if there are any objections to this being done in, in the this document. There's one thumbs up from the room, but nobody's walking to the mic. Okay. So Alright. So I'll I'll go ahead The second issue is number 9, connection based proof of possession. And connection based proof of possession essentially, is, it describes the binding between the certification, signing request, and the underlying secure transport layer. So it is achieved by including the, challenge path for that tribute in the are. That depends on the ongoing security session. And since we just discussed the use of the ephemeral key in the, in the generation of the Mac and the proof of possession of the CSR when ad hoc is used this, connection based proof of possession is kind of implicitly done, as as acts"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "just explained. And the ad hoc session is bound to CSR without the need for additional bytes to be supported in this challenge password field. So, what we did is that we removed, the specification of explicit, connection based per session using the ad hoc unique byte string that was that used to be used as a challenge password. And made it optional and specified that this can be, done by an application profile. But is out of scope of this application with an added security because iteration that we achieved this binding with ad hoc when ad hoc is used by the usage of the ephemeral key to compute the Mac during the enrollment to start significant monkeys. So this was also merged. So I will proceed, to the next one. These were 2, I would say non editorial technical changes that we what we did in all three the the rest of the stuff that was fixed were mostly editorial, changes on some consolidation of references, boilerplate, explicitly stating the type of certificates in section on optimizations, some illustrations, update of figures, some incorrect, referencing score draft where we remove the sentence on HKDF add the acknowledgement and additional optimization and added an additional optimization editorially into section 3.4. So I will now skip to the open issues that I would like to discuss with the working group And, the first one is on normative requirements"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "content's format support, which is essentially ASN 1 or seabor. Content formats. What this means is that, our draft currently may transport both content type negotiation in the EST happens through through the accept option of co op But we need to specify some normative requirements on what is supported on the client side and on the server side. In terms of the of the objects, object and codings. And, the pro I have here some proposed text, and the aim is to keep backwards compatibility. And the goal of the proposed tax that you can see in the slide is to, to keep backwards compatibility by, by recommend by having the should on the server side, supporting both ASN 1 and seaborne encoded object, and then, we state, I quote it is up to the client port only s and 1 seaborne encoding or both. And then as a reminder, content format negotiation happens through cops, except option present in the request. I see a screen in the queue. So hoping I'm not interrupting, Escodak, I'm here. I was thinking you wanted to have some feedback on the text. Okay. Yes. Sure. And, yeah, I was thinking that that we can phrase it like this with a capital should And if if that is used, there's also the need to add some exception case. So when is it okay, to not support both, Mhmm. Think that that this could be something like, okay. If you are deploying a system and you know that all the clients will only use, format 1. In that case,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "okay if if the server only supports format 1 and Same for Foma too. Mhmm. Nom normally, think the design concept to be used also in the animal working group is that the server needs to support all the formats, and then the client picks constrained client picks one of them, typically. Okay, which is what is pre proposed. Right? So, yeah, this is, the proposal. Yeah. The only thing is that for the for the shoots, we need to add some text describing the, exception, I think, here And while we are looking at this, I think it's also good to consider, one other thing. There's there's basically the slash search request So to get CA certificates, that has a a small problem or bug, I think. I believe that came from the EST co op as RFC. So there's a problem that, I think it's it's sad that it's it's okay for the server to support only one format and the client's could in principle support you all the format so that you don't have a good match because the clients will ask for a CA certificate in one format, and the server will only support CA certificates in another format. So think it's also good to check that case. And if possible, fix it as well, because that's Yeah. That's a bit of a weird situation, I think. So, So that means that basically the clients could do a slash search request and ask a format that the server doesn't support. It's basically the problem we have And it's anima working group. We're also looking at adding another format, because we had some problems with, Yeah. The P KC is 7, wrapper format. This is not always supported by the crypto library. So We are thinking about adding a new format there. So it's just for information that's ongoing work, So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "Okay. Yep. Thank you for any for any input. I'll take an action on this Marco, Marcus. Yeah, and I think this proposal is a real, good specifically on the, negotiation, the action is critical So you may want to to be a bit more explicit and say that the ESD server must support it. Since you want in general negotiation to be possible. And I remember you had a already when you discussed with normative language, the the support of the options on the 2 different sides. And well, if you want to admit negotiation in general, yeah, it's best to say, this December must support the exit option. Okay. Thank you. Okay. If there are no other comments, I will proceed, the next open issue is 34 payloadformats should explicitly mention seaborne encodedobject This is mostly, I would say it's editorial but it's important for the comprehension of the draft on what happens with TST, what what, types of, objects are exchanged in different messages and for different functions. We currently have table 2 in the draft that gives a summary of ASN1 media types. Carried within request and responses for each of the supported functions. And just a pre editorial proposal would be to add an equivalent for seaborne encoded objects as registered in the CAOSA draft. But there is a caveat here that we are currently missing a, media type registration for pkcs10."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "And seaborne, coding, and media type for PKS 8, which is used for transport of the private key in serve server generated. Scenarios. So I made an action already to reach out to the of this cozy draft. To include these, registrations in their in their draft that we are having a normative dependency on. So I see you're on, in the queue. Yeah. Yeah. And I should say that, yes, we noted that re request and we will comply. Okay. Provide those specifications. Great. Thank you. So I will If there are no other comments on this, I will proceed So this is issue number 17, which was raised in drone review, where we explicitly state that in the draft as a reminder, we explicitly state that ad hoc external authorization data fields are intentionally not used to carry EST payloads because ad hoc needs to be as executed in the case because ad hoc needs to be executed in case of reenrollment. So as a reminder, during initial enrollment, we might get away with transporting, EST in ad hoc, but then during reenrollment, we would then meet require ad hoc be executed again without without any need when it we can only leverage the existing security the the already, the keys that are already in place and just use the Oscar So this was previously discussed in the during the San Francisco and a meeting and one interim of ace, and the the working group agreed to not use the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "to PSD Oscar and instead to use Oscar, to use a score, instead. Therefore, the name of the draft is the score. So the context here is five times is on the order of several years. So we definitely need to support 3 enrollment. And that separate code paths for a reenrollment and enrollment would complicate the implementation. And, it is possible to do in any case. It is possible to do enrollment with combined ad hoc and Oscar delivery. As, as specified in the in the core draft. So in that way the initial enrollment can happen in ad hoc message 34, which is what John is proposing when he, when he wanted to transport the EST object within, within EAD of Adcock. So my proposal here would be to keep enrollment, you know, score as it is right now. And to discuss editorially, the option for combine that call cost for delivery, in the draft. I see login in the queue. Yes, Marissa. Just, Azir. A reminder, we we we We need to, be mindful of the time that we have for this session. And if we could a little bit fosters about the others can present as well, but would be nice, man. Yeah. Okay. So, I'm I'm I'm nearly through. So it should be should be quick from this point on. So I just want to check if there are any objections to, to to to this to this way forward. K. I hear none. So I I guess I can move on. Yes. Yes. There is number 14 on the the RFC 9148, essentially where John's comment is that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "he's referring to section 5 C9148 that discusses HTTPS co op, it's register. Which acts as a HTTP to cope proxy. And, we and which enables DST Server talk only HTTP TLS and and, having a clear boundary between HTTPS session and the co op session. And in the case of server generated private keys which are not encrypted at the object level. These keys may be visible to this, to the to the proxies. John is commenting on this that this is something that is not recommended. And that he thinks it's a bad security practice. So and he's proposing to update RFC 9148. So I'm a little hesitant to do that, because it's different set of security properties between HTTPS and or score or score traverses the proxies and achieve sent to insecurity even in presence of proxies. So we are not exactly in the same situation. And, my proposal here would be to add the security consideration on this in the STO score. Unless there is any objection, of course. No. Please go ahead. Okay. And, there are a set of open editorial issues, which, the author team does not think deserve particular discussion method to this meeting in the in the, interest of time, I will just skip this, and go to the next steps. So the next steps for us is to resolve the these open issues that we discussed in the meeting and that we agreed. And then finally, it would be great if we we would have another round of previews before, the working group last call."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "Any questions or comments? Okay? Thank you. everyone. This is Marco. This is an update on the, Jema Hi, me document, next slide, please. Yeah, I prefer to give you a cup, this time. This is still considering the group manager, for the group score protocol, for which we have another document that defines an interface intended for group members, to join and interact more with the group manager once group members. But this particular document introduces a second interface at the same group manager in the interest of Ace clients deduct as, administrators. So they can, create configure, reconfigure, delete, those groups. Addition to the original interface, this one adds some new concepts, of course, 1st of all, a single instance, of a new resource to the group manager, a group collection, just as an example, especially to be at something like slash manage. And a number of, child resources of that group collection called group configuration each, for each group, currently available at the manager, state would with name, group name. And that's where you would find the configuration of the grouping question. So the administrators for the grouping question here, would clients and, like, for the other interface, the group manager is still the the resource server, and we use a student for success control and the right permissions of the administrator in this case, to operate, at the group manager. Next night, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:04",
    "text": "And this is a visual recap of the operations that are to do on those resources. And the administrator can first of all, operate on the single instance of this group collection and resource for the sake of retrieving the, full or partial list of existing groups. Or you can create a new group. Sending a a post request to the group collection. So the result would be creating one child group configuration resource. Containing the, the configuration for that group. And not shown in this in this figure for simplicity, but a sister resource, would also be created, that group members or candidate group members can access. To join the group. And that's the topic of data, their document, in fact. Or the administrator can access 1 existing reconfiguration resource for, retrieving the whole configuration part of it according to criteria or, override it all together, changes select, actively, or deleted, meaning the group is deleted, meaning the the sister resource for joining the group is also deleted, and and the group is no more. Next slide, please. So this is all being stable for, couple of years. It's not more, already, in this late version, we made yet another, editorial pass with some improvements and fixes. And we also noted that following the split out, of the use of this interface u using coral, which is now separate, working group document. There was still some, coral related, tax arrivalant, around this document, and we we took it away. There was just a cleanup. And we also noted that, a number of responses were supposed to be plain and simple, not adding really, any any information, but, for lazy copy paste, probably some some additional information that is not really pertinent to those, their own responses was still around."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "And we removed that too. So now it's, as intended, And we also prefer to be even as in clarifying the behavior, of the, put operation on a group configuration that administrator can perform for, overriding the group configuration. And we were saying already that certain information, certain parameters, must not be included that put request are are just wrong. But it wants to be very clear that the information corresponding to those parameters in the current configuration is also not supposed to be changed not even not even automatically internally, but the group manager, for example, following default parameters. Those values have to remain as they are, since the group creation, and it applies to 4 parameters, I think, next slide, please. Okay, to to give a bit of background to understand also this father qualification, and this first part is unchanged content, from the beginning of this work, we followed an approach such that the administrator requests to create a group suggesting a name. Then the group manager can have thousand reasons to reject that name, not necessarily because taken already, but because it's just, not nice. It's inconvenient. Whatever. So can reject that proposal and go for something else, if possible at all. So it may end up well. The group manager chooses a different name, creates the group and replies, to the admin saying, I've created a group, here's the name you have to consider. This is the name I picked up. And and this is unchanged. What we changed is, achieving a simpler text to clarify that, the group manager is not supposed to necessarily find a name. It is supposed to try. Then, it may fail in finding, a new name. It doesn't have to perform an exhaustive research"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "over a possible, space of names. It may decide to to to give up or whatever. So we rephrased some text in different parts of the draft to to reflect this, it must try And, of course, it may fail or or give up, and that's also why it's more appropriate to use a better name for the error associated with this, condition unable to determine a group name doesn't mean that a group name doesn't absolutely, exist. We also simplify the text about the high level steps that the group manager can take to try to determine the new name, but then, of course, the, the details are, implementation specific. We also have had for a while guidelines for the client that receives, that particular error and we just revised the text to be more consistent with the revision, of the relate text, and I've just mentioned. So no no breaking change, no real diversion what was happening already, just, text clearer and hopefully simpler. Next slide, please. And that's all we believe this version 10 is is ready for group plus call. We raised that already in July. We understood that was the case, but, since the last call didn't happen while we took the opportunity to proved document even a bit more. So even now we are more than ready, for working group plus call. And to further support it, Now we also have a a proof of concept implementation for Eclipse Clifornium available at the same rate where we we have, well, DAs, framework implementation in the first place with, its profiles and this is next to the other interface of the group manager that I mentioned at the beginning in the interest of the the joining notes. So, yeah, we think the document, is ready. And as a side note, I raise again that we have a technical problem with the GitHub repo where, as far as I understand the, HTML editor's copy,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "is built. But is not deployed. So if you try to follow the link, you you get a 404, and I think someone with admin permissions on the repo, can fix this. Don't know who can't exactly we can live with that. It's just going to be more and more inconvenient. We go forward. Okay. I'll I'll look into this. Thank you, Ryan. At So can we expect the work groupless calls starting soon, because the authors believe document is stable for that. So so I'm not the chair, but I'm sure the chair will take this in consideration after they catch up on this week. Okay. Thank you. Okay. I'm done with that. Then I think this next one now. It's still workflow 1. Right? Yes. Workflows and problems. Okay. Yeah, this is an update of a when you were work, or when parents presented for the first time, in July in San Francisco. Next slide, please. So to bring it up up again, the intention of this draft is to, formally update the framework, honestly, in 9200, in 2 respects, the first one is introducing, an alternative workflow where, the authorization server uploads the access token to the resource server on behalf of the client. So there's no intention to replace the original workflow or together, the AS can can choose on a per situation per client basis. But still we'd like to admit it. And we got quite good reaction and feedback about introducing this, in San Francisco. As a second contribution, we are defining a number of of new"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "parameters, to be using the message exchange, in particular, between the authorization server, and the client, and there we have revised part of the draft as I show in the following, slides. Next, please. Okay. I I won't be talking about this, this long. And if you want, there's an example in in the backup slides, we haven't changed this, in this, any version of the draft. But it's about a new workflow that I mentioned, the client still request for an access token and authorizations server can decide the 2 upload the token by itself, to the to the resource server so a response will follow-up, and and this operation may succeed or may fail. But since it has happened, authorization server will include in the response to the client an additional, parameter token uploaded, and to indicate that this has happened And if the outcome was a success, in that case, the parameter is true, the access token is not included again, or it failed. So the value is false, and the access token is included so that the client if the ones do, can try by itself and maybe we'll have but the luck. Next slide, please. On the new parameters, well, I've just mentioned that taken uploaded 1. That that's one of those. It's specifically intended to support the alternative workflow. You saw that, in the previous slide, no changes. On that. Then we have another set of parameters that are intended to sport, basically multiple, authentication credentials of resource servers, rather than 1 only. In the response from the authorization server, to the client. And that's especially useful to concretely support, in all, the professor base, the concept of group audience where the token is issued as intended to multiple. And resource service, and not one only. We had RSCS around already. I'll quickly go through again, out to you is, well, a major revision of what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:04",
    "text": "used to be a subject IDs, taking into account, proposals mostly from from Christian Analysis, and anchor CNF, is a brand new one that can be used as an alternative, basically. Next, please. Yeah. This is an example showing the 2 new parameters. RS in FQ and how to, combine together and RS NF 2 again, is unchanged. Since the since the first version, and you can really think of as the the structured version of what we already have as RS, CNN so you don't indicate only 1 authentication credential of, the single resource server for which the token is is intended, but, you indicate, an order set about authentication credentials for all the resource servers in the group audience. Then you have the parameter out to, this as a way, simpler and then intuitive semantics than the previous, subject IDs that we replaced very much aligned with the semantic of the simpler, how So its content, is, a list of identifiers resource servers, really in general, and their value are the identifiers of those resource servers that you'd use if you ask for an access token for each of those individual resource servers, So if you ask, in principle for an access token with a RS 1, you are targeting the same resource server that you mean here in this example where RS 1 is indicated, as first element, about you. But if you use RS, CNF2, then you must also include out here to discriminate, which authentication credential is for which authentication server, specifically. Aviso service specifically. Sorry. Next slide, please. So that's a way to go."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "That you can build with those 2 parameters. There's totally a different way that considers a new parameter we introduced in this version of the document. Unforeseen in principle, it's very similar to ours, CNFT, at least in terms of semantic. It's a set about integration credentials, but they are not related to resource servers. These are authentication credentials of, trusted parties or or trust anchors. And this is the idea. Say the client receives the response in the example, including, well, only one authentication credential for 1 trust anchor. This means later on, that client can somehow, we don't care how, obtain authentication credentials of some resource servers and the client is happy to go ahead and use them with those recent servers as long as the client can verify those authentication credentials, using any of the trust and authentication credentials, specified in encore cnf. So it's like if the authorization server is delegating, the trust in the credential validation to the trust anchors for which the credentials are specified, in anchor CNF. And if you want to add an extra, layer of precision and accuracy was just optional. Can further rely on out view that we saw in the previous slide to have an additional level filtering and limiting this also to particularly to server, only, but that's, that's optional. So if this is all acceptable and most likely it is, in many deployments, benefits are clearly that, the response to the client is smaller in terms of size goes you don't have to, include all the authentication credentials of all the resource servers, in the Guardian you you are limited to a few or maybe even one only. Authentication credential, of trustankers. And this is going to work seamlessly in case resource servers are deployed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "later on, after the access token is issued. Next slide, please. And this is what we have so far. This is what to draw is about, and honestly, this is the the main content we've had in mind about it for a while. We have a road map, ahead for a possible things to consider, to do along the same lines, of course, parameters, and that's compiled in appendix a bit for now, but it was less urgent. And, to connect the dots a bit here, thinking of the yeah, the Costco profile that you already presented before, that profile, is also using as an optional choice, of course, the alternative workflow and and appear in the next version of the document will show also possible use of the new parameters. Presented here. So already in July, there was interest for for adopting this. And, as it was mentioned in the agenda, the adoption call is pending. Thanks. Any questions or comments? Okay. Thank you. Thanks. I'm looking at there's a presentation marked in the agenda for that distribute it, The distributed auth caps for distributed auth, but I'm not sure I see a matching deck to be shared unless that's the deck Anthony GSI. I don't know what's just under this you just have a pick? Is it is it am I just overlooking it? Or is it not here?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "Let me see if I can update I wasn't there should be much material. So and I'm just trying to show Let me see if it's on there if I in a new in a new client. It is really quick. I'll need the data tracker. I can share my screen. So No. Yeah. In the data driven of the slides, No. Not that I know of. I didn't put it. Okay. Yeah. Sorry. The I I don't have the slides then. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:04",
    "text": "Runch. Alright. Without slides. Try this. So first of all, I have nothing to do with Ace. I got nudged here by by somebody who said I try this. So Let's see. What I'm sort of concerned with in the work I'm doing is environments in which connectivity no longer exists even though it should. Right? So how do you do authorization? Then authentication, is out of scope. And we assume that there's something authentication already happening. So authorization, what am I doing? I'm just looking at, just looking at sort of encoding credentials in a in a in a token that I sign, transmitted by some person either to the client, obviously, the resource, so pretty much what you just described, either workflow works, what because it's signed by trusted authority, and then it should contain enough information. That you can that the resource the resource server can can decide what to do. Roughly, what you're doing here is is is is pretty similar, so I'm not sure whether this has any interest or any interest to you. The only thing, sort of concerned with on my end. There's nothing co op related. Nothing Nothing that, you know, but your previous work here is that I can do this in hopefully, do this in in 0 round trips. Because if I if I have a very, spotty unreliable network, which of the conditions I'm working with. Then that should still yield some results. And the main question was, and I can't show you very much here without slides. Yeah. That's okay. We we have them in a second. Main question was whether there's any interest here in this working group for this kind of situation, or if you assume better connectivity at most times, is this something? Use cases, I have a background in,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "doing before I even start on this and communications for commercial drones, where some of these use cases come from. Fly out a drone over a forest, you need to send it to signal to change its path. How does the drone know that the signal is acceptable or not when it has no connection to to over to its original ground control station anymore sort of that kind of situation. Right? Do you have a Yeah. I would like to talk about this in a more structured way. It had but it has no relation directly to COAP or to anything, what I've seen so far, except that it's sort of in the same problem space, roughly. And I wonder whether there's an interest this kind of thing. So meanwhile, the the sorry. The slides are in the data tracker so we can I think you put them in today? The r dot, If I send them to the chairs, that's that's what I did. I will I will share my screen because I see them, but I don't seem to be to share that. I will just share my screen. Give me a second. But still, that's the basic idea. I mean, I see that you're you're already You're assuming some some different scenarios, but I'm not entirely sure what the assumption is, yes. You can go to the next slide already. Let's do this first. And you? Yeah. So, Yeah. This is the first one? This is the first yeah, so this is something I've done for the Internet safety foundation here in in ground seeing proceed. It's got to the There's document on data tracker. There's there's way out of date. I've heard some feedback. It's better to look at the one that we have on our website, and, or into the code report there, I have to make some changes as well. Just really, I'm just shopping around forward. There's interest here or not. Can you Continue this? Okay. That's the sort of thing. I don't know if you know this from Baron, but, you know, if we have these 3 different classes of of of communications network. I'm really looking at this kind of situation here. On the file, what is right, the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:03",
    "text": "where you have a system that's these white notes there. I don't know how visible this is. And some parts of the system cannot con communicating what anymore at this point with other parts of the system. It's not really an architecture. This one is more of a riff on the previous one. But that's sort of the situation I'm talking about. And and your thrown use case has something like that. You have, communities that might be cut off from from you know, the network at at specific times. That's sort of the use case I'm looking at. I'm not sure how co how how ace relevant they are, how co app relevant they are. But that's what I'm looking at. Next slide. I have to see what oh, here they are. Okay. So this is not something new. You know, capability been around for a while. Your access token are probably quite the same thing. I, you know, kind of, probably, but not completely necessarily. Because, you put a lot of more stuff into your access token, then I'm putting into cover is I'm really just encoding privileges and I had a problem finding something that does the same thing because it seems tied to a different use case. Like yours here in COAP seems to be tied to specific technology. I was looking at how can we do, how can we sort of, un untangle this a little bit. The best thing I found is this this, our from 1999, which is very complex. And very X Five Nine specific. So I'm not entirely sure whether this is the Right? Thing to get people start from this kind of thing. Next slide, please. So, really, what I really wanted to do with this draft is is just make it, make it simple and generic so that you have, very dumb, let's say, encoding of of what what actually people can do, what, what, what nodes can connect, request from each other. Tried to get the sort the basic of that sorted and make it, like I said, small enough for 0 round trips. That was sort of a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "the use case for me. Next slide. Right. Okay. We can pretty much skip this. I'm just on-site for Smofer reading up, I think. No. Continue, please. I I want to hurry this up now because I've seen so much that you're doing some other stuff. Alright. Attribute based authorization, we can also skip Right. So Yeah. base of this is pretty much what I saw in your slides, actually. The real Earlier that you take the on the the the querying of what what client can actually do into your 1st phase. You greater sign token of the response. You transmit the response And in order to do this, sorry, I'm between lunch and I'm finding slides. I'm not really explaining this particularly well. The point was to to find out what what has to be in what has to be in this capability or in this token to make this happen to make this relatively safe. Right. I'm completely lost on this, to be honest now. I mean, I know but I don't know how the how I can make this relate to you guys. Can you continue? Garen has a has a question, I think. Yes, please. Ask questions. Hi, guys. Nice to meet you. Hey. Yeah, I I looked at your draft. And I I I basically, my impression was, yes, we are doing something similar to this. Yes. Right. So that was that was my first impression. And I didn't I didn't I didn't understand so much the differences. You now mentioned 0 round trips. And and then So to my question is, well, how do you do authorization without any form of authentication. So I mean, we have we do have the Oscar profile where you can do one round, one round. Right? And then protects you, that gets you freshness. It protects you against replay. The tanks,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:03",
    "text": "And and you can do it offline. Well, basically, the client needs to get the token at some point, Yep. But but it it's it can be the actual authorized say the actual education and authorization protocol can't can't take can't be carried out locally in in a basement deep down somewhere or or where you don't have connectivity correct. And and those are actually the the use cases that people find Well, that that that's the use cases where people find use for for ace. They they that they think that is attracted to the that offline aspect So So, yes, I, and then encoding access rights. Well, there is something fairly lightweight called AIF Authorization Information Format so in in ace, we are, we are encoding rest operations It's like you can do either get to put the post. So then it's like a bitmap of of either get put post a map or combination of that, and that that type of content you carried. So it's can also be made. I agree that the Texas tokens we have shown here our our kind of lots lots of information, but you can make that more complicated. So I I didn't understand what was actually different or what was new, and I didn't understand the 0. Yeah. Honestly, I didn't I don't understand either, I was I was told to to come here and take this year because there was might be the most interesting place and most interested space and idea for this weekend. And looking at the presentations earlier, I saw that you were doing more or less the same thing already like it just said. So I I Don't read and all if that's that's the right place to take this. Yes. Well, in a sense, yes, you have you have reinvented the same way So that sounds sounds good. Different different different parts of the same conclusions, basically. Yeah. Good. Yeah. That that's it. I guess that also answers my question that working group already has has what it needs. But I Well, I mean I would look at what you're doing and and take a look if I can can give you some feedback. Yes, please. I think that would be very valuable. Mean, have experience with drones and other situations which are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "sort of constraints, settings, every byte counts and so on. So, yes, if you would have interest in reviewing or just having a look and see. That would be excellent. Very spur of the moments. Thank you. Yes. Thank you. So, gents, and Goran to my reading is that the Gensio, basically, okay with, merging your work we've, was already being done in the working group. Yes. If that's if that's the way if that's the way that can work, yes. Absolutely. Absolutely. I don't I honestly don't know what there is any if if there is anything that is specific fee. Relevance to you. Looking at what you're doing, you're encoding way more information into one of these ex token than I would, but that's really down to trying to optimize this for for for the 0 round trip time. Situation. Which might have applied to you all the time. Right? Maybe maybe that's that's one way to look at this as to to sort of look at this as an optimization to to what you can what you have to transport Maybe maybe it's not relevant. I'm fine. No. But I I think I think it it could be, I mean, let's say that you have a special case where where you don't need to carry all the information that we do in the token coming back with that type of feedback would be Great. And then we can look at, sort of optimized profiles and so on, but That might definitely make sense. Sounds good to me. Yeah. I'll take I'll take a look at what you have because, you know, honestly, it has the time to come to do that before I came here, but, that might make sense. Yes. Yeah. This sounds like a good topic to continue on the list and figure out where there's a good match Absolutely. Well, thanks for having me. Thanks. So so apologies for losing your main screen. We're not sure what happened to the TV. We still have 10 minutes. There was one presentation, but I don't think we have presenter for that, either way. So I think that presentation would not have happened anyway, but you can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "look at the presentation that's in the data tracker. So, with that, we have 10 minutes left. So we can do a any open business, if anyone has anything they wanna raise, We now have 10 minutes and and Goran. Oh, yes. That's true. Goran had an item on her last call. Yeah. I did. I did have one. So, I looked at the minute. From last meeting, which was hidden in, in the lake, as your memories was collocated with lake. So So I I copy pasted minutes. Into the chat here. And as I read it, there is this group OS score profile, draft, which is in version 11. It's been around for a while. And and I, I thought we agreed to actually go forward with the working group plus call, adoption call on that one. But, Yes. Yes. That's correct. We So, team dress, entered drawn per working group recently. We're still catching up on, all of those items. And sorry if we, give an impression that it's no longer the case. It's definitely the case. Let me team and I need to speak about, the over remaining items and then will send a call for Is that okay with you, Graham? Sounds good. Thank you. Thanks. Yeah. Yeah. My apologies. So so, we we did just have a recent share change. And, unfortunately, it was a little not really a lot time in the weeks leading up to IETF to, for the for the 3 of us to work together. So my apologies for that, but I will will, we'll go through all the list of the to make sure that everything is in the right state and for moving things forward. So, thank you for your patience, Corinne. No worries. And if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "just nobody else, then this is the end of the meeting and you have 8 minutes to raise the other meeting to the welcome goodbye reception. I hope that all of you have a safe trip back home. Were, I think rooms. So sorry to bother you. I hope that my estimates are like how much bus that would make that's I'm sorry. I was for for like, go at the end. And I know there was a problem on the whole, like like I think even with a little bit of noise Thanks for trying. I mean, sir. Time. Has certain Yeah. Be real."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:18",
    "text": "It's so good. My notes have things to do and it's overrated. Which is mother but some of them, I like to follow-up here, follow-up there."
  }
]
