[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:09",
    "text": "okay good morning welcome to spring him if you\u0027re interested in spring and please have a seat and we have a full agenda so we need to to keep on schedule and if you needed internet interesting in spring can you please continue the discussion outside thank you so this is a not whele this is not the usual not well it\u0027s that it has changed so please read it since we are Friday will assume that you have already read it minutes so we have a job or scribe on ready if someone wants to contribute to the minutes it would be welcome please thank you we have a so here it is for your information we are requests for four hours of requests and we already already only have 90 minutes so obviously the agenda is full on sorry for all peoples week which are not in the engine ah any comment on the other okay so as a reminder you don\u0027t have to wait for the meetings to discuss your draft you can start on the mailing list and it will also help as a just to to have an idea of how much work needs to be done in the next meeting so please use the minister so as you probably know our Martine is now working Eddie so yes step down as chair Prince Trina on row checking is the new chair so welcome Radha thank you for the for coming in and also there is another change the spring ad is now a Martina very thank you to Alvaro and my understanding is that arrow will keep sharing the existing draft which are in the ad and I HD a radio doesn\u0027t know so status report we now have all use cases on the EP solution in our Sen otaku so many thanks to the others to the shelves on to Alvaro again related to a spring conflict resolution we started the last Cora on we had one out sonic issue related to consistent and link between protocols since this is since this is SR MPs Pacifica my understanding is that this will be covered in the SRS document so we have a slot on that today "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:11",
    "text": "and in this case we will remove her as a conflict graph to to dead state in the arm of MPLS anycast segment it\u0027s ready for a score so we started soon so for the document in is G on Adia review we have the architecture document which is on the iesg hood evaluation and we still have one discuss remaining there is not a letter or like a lot of active resolution so for those who restart the description sent you another one is the MSD see again in ASG evaluation on the revised ID needed again one remaining discus and here we are pending a reply for transport RL reviewer so I try to bring in again unless one is a LDP inter walking again ad review we need a new new idea for motors on some replies to a virus comment thank you let\u0027s move to chatting so we wanted to try to discuss what the next steps for the the working group are there\u0027s surf core documents that we\u0027ve just talked through and the ones that have already been published are now you know in the ISD or the beyond there and so one thing to kind of gauge what the set of technical items to work on our to determine what this interested in determining not what there\u0027s willingness to put cycles into such that we can capture these these items in a charter review if we need one we\u0027ve had this discussion a couple of times we had started it ITF 98 in Chicago and there\u0027s been some discussion on the the mailing list of course which will have seen and now we\u0027re going to discuss it here so we\u0027re hoping to get some some input to to the overall next set of work items through through this meeting and then through discussion following it we\u0027ve had a number of different areas discussed on on the mailing list as bits of as potential work items and we tried here just to capture what the overall set of things are I think that there\u0027s there\u0027s a few things here that we already have within the work of their working groups OSI v6 and the yang work is has existing milestones that were working towards so we don\u0027t really need to do anything to capture these as new work items the other parts of this so then it seems like there\u0027s pretty strong consensus that we should work on some OAM solutions as well as the policy work and as we discussed this I think we should assume that the the base state is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:13",
    "text": "that we work on those things that there\u0027s agreement why I would like what we\u0027d like to hear from the working group is if this disagreement that though the OEM and policy are things that we should work on and then there\u0027s some other items in here like the service chaining work and ingress replication this seems like there\u0027s be some less and less less interest of less people interested in working on those items so if you strongly feel that those things are things that should be in the working group and work the technical items who will work on next then thing we\u0027d like to hear here on those so specifically on the OEM and SR policy work is that anyone that thinks that we shouldn\u0027t buy a show of hands work be working on those in in spring okay zero people so it sounds like these are pretty clear pretty clear things that we should work so then for the service chaining the English replication things are their specific support is their specific comments as to what exactly spring should welcome for those and people that are prepared to work on those those items no comments I think so assuming the regards to use of SR Zeffirelli service chaining with regards to use of these segments as part of the service Chapman encoding it as part of this segment in the early surfaces that could be a 76 years old SR MPLS citizen that is something that is working group should work on there is a document on the agenda today and that\u0027s clearly within the scope of this working group there\u0027s a job sooo glad Jim Keisha huawei excuse me have a cold I picked up here thank you I just want to make sure that I I\u0027d like to be able to work on integration of spring service training with other service chaining mechanisms so I know it\u0027s going to require some liaison with other working groups but definitely it\u0027s an area of interest to me and I know to other people so I obviously my interest is the combination of spring training with what we\u0027ve done in the SFC working group as well so if that could be covered I\u0027d be grateful and I agree with this reviewing this work across is fine "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:13",
    "text": "but I think that the work really should be done by this party look because the segment outing expertise here this is Linda Tamra from Huawei I think that this sd-1 integrate with second routing should be included in the next phase I\u0027ll be interested in working this to me master Rikuo I\u0027m speaking as individual gym question for clarification well I did I understand you correctly by you are saying that we need some form of intern working between the different solutions that and did you express any preference on where that work should be done okay thank you John Larry Comcast so you know I think I\u0027m interested in the Peace of being able to service chain and select network paths you know at the same time so I think that work best place to do that is really spring and up break it up into two different working groups I would also like the second ESD when work which is very much related with the segment outing the work the solution that is based on Sigma round will be our detection should be done children from Hawaii and I\u0027m interesting to working on the virtual virtualization and partitioning of Nenana resources that will have some craft related as I turn get ontological Cisco on the English application part it\u0027s actually a use case or extension of the SR policy work where the policies segments can be used to achieve this so while this is multicast and definitely we may need to collaborate with you know the other working groups it would be good to at least analyze the use case and work on it here additional comments about this which hotter walk I think the even the phanerozoic hot her walk is the can be town to incorporate the possible either murder a date here with the SR I also had also warrior that because there\u0027s many working groups related with the supreme working group so I hope that we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:14",
    "text": "based on the lessons and then the firm pasta pasta several master I think that you for some this the confliction usually you identified I think they usually will be solved as soon as possible after coordination with the other working group so that\u0027s it\u0027s just my suggestion again so there is some work also going on and EMM working group which is an IETF draft settlement it mentioned that on the mailing list as well I be interested that this working group review that work closely and work with other working group closely to get second or outing were reviewed within the working group that they are driving but or the expertise are sitting but the work should be closely reviewed here from an architecture and a mechanics point of view hi my name is maja we for the morning ceteris email is assisted that that work should be reviewed and I don\u0027t think that mobility management should belong to a service it\u0027s it should belong to DMM working group another proposals are therefore phi g including lisp and ila and it is agnostic to data plane it could be a sir MPLS or it could be anything so only for the SR v6 part it can be reviewed here but the formality management work should belong to D mmm I think this leads us on to the to a wider discussion topic though we also wanted to cover so I think a couple of people\u0027s mentioned that our existing documents have been split across multiple working groups we\u0027ve had this approach whereby we\u0027ve kind of do the the use case documents or the overall architecture documents and then the the individual protocol working groups two extensions if the of them this is resulted in a few sort of administrative things like we\u0027ve ended up with documents whereby they solely do use case use cases and then are not considered as a useful artifact to publish which is I don\u0027t think good for the working group in general but we wanted to solicit some feedback on how this inter working group where work should should work should we do only protocol should we do for all the protocol extension work in this working group or should we do the only architectures and kind of functional specifications that give work to other working to develop the solution to we kind of have their first the the latter case as as that current approach but there\u0027s there is an option to look at spring trying to take some more of the protocol development a bit akin to how beer does it today and so any feedback on whether it\u0027s it\u0027s useful to have to kind of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:16",
    "text": "bring this work together more in spring and avoid some of the coordination issues would be would be useful I think to the chairs this is a for Holly I actually like the approach of taking the work here in a cohesive fashion because it helps the other working group should be involved in all the reviews of any protocol work that is going on here so it will facilitate the process that will give process and also potentially accelerate the work but I mean certainly the there is no question that the work should be reviewed by the working group that is the way the experts are sitting but I like the approach for taking were careful to covert here just answer inertia I completely disagree with previous comment and this is the way we\u0027ve been doing work in ATF and I believe we should be doing the protocol of selling should be done in practical working groups and architectural documents should be done here lack of good coordination solvable problem I believe we can work on attracts a selenium speaking as co-chair of the LSR working group we\u0027ve started all these all the work protocol working in the highest and all SPF now LS our group and I think it would be a real mistake to move it because it\u0027s so intertwined with the base route computation the multi topology and all the cop and the signaling affects the dynamics and the efficiency of it would really I kind of preposterous given that we\u0027re waiting for Miss refs on this working groups architecture documents so I think that should be the focus is finishing ah what it started here if you\u0027ll note there is really I think there\u0027s only one document maybe there\u0027s two now spring documents that have actually made it to RFC so moving more work here doesn\u0027t seem like a good idea I think this too but you\u0027re right again I agree you know certainly from the SFC working group perspective we\u0027ve taken the approach of you know we had specific architecture in mind that we were going to work on there and I think it stifles innovation if you try and do everything you want working group so I think it makes sense and we\u0027ve seen that with you know there\u0027s work going on in MPLS as well going on here on service chaining that\u0027s not necessarily taking the same approach that we took so I think it\u0027s the right thing to do to split the protocol work across the right working "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:17",
    "text": "groups Stefan from Orange I think getting the protocol extension in spring could have the advantage of having the only protocol extensions for specific use case to be standardized in a similar time frame rather than splitting them in multiple working groups you could have some kind of an synchronization but now we can see that I Esiason OSPF have merged so we can have a better synchronization so the only remaining thing is Buju pls maybe so can we put bt pls in arizona why this relevant to be a working group I haven\u0027t seen early relation in the adoptee Tapia ricotta sorry the its we\u0027re not saying that there is a relationship between the spring work and their Bo work it\u0027s the word the model of help the be a working group operates rather than how spring does so we just comparing ways of working in the ITF but there\u0027s no overlap between the two I\u0027ve got a written a rolling inning I want to first strengthen the point that I am NOT the responsibility for this work here anymore I want to say that\u0027s the fun scare me because I thought he was gonna say put pls here so do you want to say is that regardless of how this is done the coordination still needs to exist right if the extension of them here and we still need the other word noobs to review or the extensions on there and we need to review some how the coordination needs to assist and I think this is a problem that goes beyond spring in many charters you have seen because I know that all of you read everything that happens in the writing area you see that it says oh this is working he was trained to collaborate with that other working group on a with the other work and wouldn\u0027t be you know there\u0027s something that we really need to get better and you know maybe this is something that we need to think of specifically for when we end up with the Charter here on how that coordination is going to happen so that we can precisely as someone else said avoid those confusing things that have been happening over the last couple of months right so we can put a specific line and better than a delineation of what happens here what happens somewhere else is even the coordination so that we have the working groups talking to each other the chairs talking to each other that doesn\u0027t mean that we need to present the same draft in five different working groups and every eights yeah it means actual coordination right not the author "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:17",
    "text": "walking around the ITF so we need to better figure that out and I\u0027m sure that the chairs and the neo ID and everyone else can figure that out in a in a way that we\u0027re all gonna be happier forward commence OTS is not a dirty word just so you know there\u0027s significant amount of work going on data modelling for asar topologists augmenting basic topology with the sir so at then work here needs to plug in into larger scheme of things so inter working with tears is important and please do consider it chris powers juniper networks i would actually support moving more towards option two I mean AC referred to the delay in the segment routing based documents but that delay was actually quite useful because there were many aspects of that that were shown to be not really completely well explained in the architecture documents and Parsons of those extensions were simply removed because no one really understood what they what purpose they served and how they were supposed to be used so that that delay could have been less had there been better coordination had this these documents either been here or elsewhere and I see that with Flex algo very much to be the case it is one model that can explain some of the work and that is if in the spring charter would bring in responsibility that any segment routing work that is going on other working globally is bringing the responsibility to be plugged into that and then review that work and and and sort of a take ownership of that from that point of view from just maybe shows that that were proceed so I mean there are working with charter that clearly state that explicitly and and maybe in the Charter we can add some tax in in that context and then it probably would give working group and we shared more responsibility and that Mia create the work that goes with and licks Nokia and more of the opinion I saw I believe Springs should be the architectural side of things but where there is the the the strange one is actually the edge of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:17",
    "text": "policy right because if you you could say T should review it but it\u0027s actually a BGP based framework and these is typically working with RSVP based extensions gmpls and stuff like that so so the T Paul I so the S or policy which is actually too strange from here because I believe that that work should actually it\u0027s better to be here but to be viewed with other working groups because there is an element of SFC inside there is an element of traffic engineering in there there is a combination of these things so I believe that work is better served here in this working group but has to be reviewed with other working group from one perspective but that\u0027s protocol work I believe is better to be done in spring than any other working group given the specifics it has to spray it is the first yeah I agree with were being said I mean essentially T policy was a normative reference to a sorry texture just a few months ago they\u0027re normally reference was removed because to proceed the document but it\u0027s T policy work the reset the SR policy work that is here it is part of the authority texture and like Jim said is it it actually grows many aspects like s all v6 MPLS T is a small Westar to that but is it lose the architecture together it is the way that we infinite segments which is d Sigma routing so it is the heart of I think yeah preceding that work and then having good relationship with the other working group so we can make sure that we drive the work of a scope the works that we drive the work across will help yeah and I think that\u0027s what we were we were saying we only really had wanted to hear disagreement with that that being the right approach that we would do SRT within this the policy work within this working group and coordinate with other team other working group so we need it okay thank you I think we should probably move on in the interest of time some next is I met I believe [Music] okay my name is Ahmad Effendi I will be presenting will presenting an update on the segment routing instantiation over MPLS so the purpose of this draft as many of you have known is to specify how to instantiate the segment routing architecture over the MPLS forwarding plane the key modification in this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:17",
    "text": "version is to address the area director reviews and thank you very much for the detailed review and to the second part which is incoming labeled collision which is related but not identical to the conflict resolution so I have already sent an update about the ad review comments a couple of weeks back but I will go over them quickly so why is this document standard track out there and we\u0027re specifying many externally visible behavior that we need to make sure that all routers follow the term srl be we address the same detail the term index and how to use the index the if you label I think we addressed this in detail IPR declaration I will go over them one more time and see if there is anything that is relevant to the segment routing architecture and we\u0027ll just make it clear just how many people here okay I mean I don\u0027t know how you know what you want to do with that list if you expect me or someone else to say good I\u0027m saying but you know just so that everyone knows yes I made comments all those comments the draft has been revised where now it is double the size and it\u0027s like I\u0027m not saying it\u0027s a bad thing now it\u0027s double the size most of it to answer some of those questions especially the first one and I returned it to the working group so the important thing here I think is that now this work is part of the working group again so sure I would love for you to resolve my comments but you fundamentally have a different document than when I first read it and more importantly even if you address all that the work has to last call and now Martin has to go review it and everything else again so yeah yes sir I\u0027m just giving an update this is an update about what is the purpose of this version just listing them here that\u0027s why it\u0027s just one slide and I\u0027m not putting any details here I\u0027m just saying it\u0027s addressed where do I don\u0027t look up the review the email that I sent a couple of weeks back so what\u0027s a valid sRGB this was replied to next-hop so on there are a few terms that will be moved and we agree they\u0027re not very necessary there are other many comments which I encourage people to look at the mailing list or just read the email reply the next big thing is the incoming labeled collision and the object of the labeled collision first of all is simplicity we want to make this simple we don\u0027t want to over engineer it we want to make it routing protocol independent if there is anything that needs to be done in the routing protocol "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:17",
    "text": "it should not be sitting here this is routing protocol specifics objective is to guarantee consistent Feb there is no global consistent I cannot do it if I want are on the network I can always do that so Chris you have a question well I was on your previous slide you said you\u0027ve done I think three IPR decorations okay but you say you do more if necessary even necessary I\u0027ll just have to I didn\u0027t have time to review the the IPR spring segments route things you see if they are applicable then we\u0027ll just make them okay so so so you\u0027re still doing evaluation about what more needs to be done because we\u0027re not in a position to evaluate that forgave and we aware it\u0027s not a needy again so just to be clear because I don\u0027t think maybe I didn\u0027t explain myself very well when I did my review I\u0027m going to be blunt so I\u0027m going to apologize when I read the draft the first time I thought the draft said nothing that\u0027s why I asked by was even on the standard track and everything that I thought the draft said actually was already somewhere else like the texture document and so the reason I brought the IPR question was because this draft the MPLS craft has IPR against it I can\u0027t judge whether it\u0027s good or bad but because it didn\u0027t say anything right I was surprised that it had IPR when the architecture document doesn\u0027t so my question was not about did you file everything what question was are you sure you had to file against this draft and not something else here\u0027s again the IPR doesn\u0027t have or the architecture story doesn\u0027t have IPR against there the paramotor correctly but this draft when I reviewed it it reflected very much the same thing as the architecture documented it had IPR so it just surprised me that not did you file everything did you file it against the right one and I know that this traffic through a lot of changes since the beginning so maybe at the very beginning it reflected something else and maybe that\u0027s what you added back again I don\u0027t know but you know my point is that that that was the question it wasn\u0027t whether he had more or you know etc but really whether it was against the right one okay thanks for that clarification and as you mentioned it changed and as you mentioned also doubled in size so probably now the iCard that we made against this will be relevant but I will still look at the IPR to see if there is anything that is even a little bit relevant and we\u0027ll make it so we do not guarantee I go back to the incoming label collision there is no guarantee to domain right to assistance as I said if I were on the network I can always configure a static route that points to me and from me to the other guy there is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:18",
    "text": "no way we can do it so the idea is basically we define what is called an SR feckin SFI just a good old-fashioned MPLS effect that is related to segment routing we just need to define this so that people can read through the document basic MPLS common sense a label is assigned to a single stack others they can have other labels they don\u0027t go without labels at all that\u0027s a different story Greg mercy City so are you suggesting to create another flag in addition to once defined in LSB ping or segment routing I am not sure what you mean by other fact but the definition of fact is the set of packets that gets forwarded in the same way and this is defined here I\u0027m not sure what you maybe another FAQ what about whatever there\u0027s there are facts defined in and I was being for segment rolling over and the LS define other facts it\u0027s sort of signal ya know and this document does not define any new formal fact I think that he is using this terminology just loosely alone in fact is being defined for and pillars are for escaping so we abstract all control clean things be it static be it configuration be routing protocol as what we call MPLS controlling client we use the same term in the segment writing to NDP under operability is basically anything that downloads a fib entry by breaking rules are very simple each MCC within its own self will give me a FAQ and adjacency set and a label an adjacency set is defined as a outgoing interface and a next hop and it will give me a label this will be received by either the fehb and the rep if it sees the same label assigned to multiple facts it will basically pick one of them only and the others will get either get dropped to get downloaded this is not really within this document because this document talks about MPLS our instantiation of segment starting over MPLS we important thing is that they are deterministic rules which means first-come first-serve there\u0027s no good if you have the same set of adjacency sis competing for the same label then that adjacent says it will always get picked or if I have a prefix said and an adjacency set competing where the same label shouldn\u0027t happen really then I let\u0027s say I will always pick the prefix it the tiebreaking rules are basically quite simple as we\u0027ve been doing with routing protocol for ages each stack or each cross connect or each "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:19",
    "text": "set of packets that gets forwarded the same way they are assigned an admin distance we pick the one with the smallest admin distance if there are still competing effects you just pick the one with the smallest numerical value as simple as that as I said objective is not to to guarantee domain wide consistency the last thing that we spoke about and I got some comments after I published the draft so I will incorporate them redistribution if to MCC is yet give prefix and a prefix in index to each other then the receiving MCC bit less an advert I am redistributing from OSPF to is is the receiving entity which in this case is is will only advertise this index that it got from OSPF if the sRGB are the same if the sRGB are different it is free to assign a new set index provided that it downloads the corresponding label to the FIP or it advertise it without an index at all and it may get assigned through some other mechanism for example either uses LDP label or relies on some mapping server and that\u0027s pretty much it any questions so how many read the document okay I think given the changes that were in this this version especially those of absorption of the the conflict resolution draft it would be definitely good to get the working group to review this we probably need to go go around another cycle of making sure that it\u0027s it\u0027s stable but this should really be one of our top priority yes I think this dog has been around for a long time and yeah exists and we need to stabilize it and get it published I think totally agree there a lot of protocols that are based on this so we really need to stabilize this and make sure that it is perfect this way all other prompting protocols are basically also stable and thank you very much I get ontological Cisco presenting on behalf of all the co-authors I\u0027m trying to going to keep it very brief because we are very short on time the segment routing architectures defined multiple segment types and how they have to be used and all of that what this document does it is introduces the notion of SR policy which is something that can be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:20",
    "text": "set up or instantiated on on a node and that actually results in a stack of segments being and encoded into the packet you know on that router going through this notion of SR policies as we discussed earlier in the group it applies it has wide applicability it applies to both MPLS and SR v6 data planes it has traffic engineering but also NFB some layer two there is a separate drive for optical and multicast so it has a wide applicability one of the key things that is defined here is in that in a draft is also the steering so how are packets actually stirred on to this SR policy or how are they how are this how is that stack of segments associated or impose on that and it also covers some traffic accounting part just at a very high level what are the key attributes it\u0027s for both MPLS and i sr v6 data planes the key thing here is the state is only on the head end node it\u0027s not you know all over the fabric for a particular policy it does not have to be hop-by-hop or like a circuit kind of a thing it lies to leverage IP ecmp and those attributes the segment\u0027s can be a mix of topological or service segments there are different types of set which are covered in the draft these policies could be instantiated automatically our provision via controller there are multiple protocol options BGP SRT P SEP to do this and what the draft also talks about some use cases where there is this integration of the overlay services and automated steering mechanisms for it using the SR Policy construct for it so it it is an integration of multiple you know segment types here bindings field is a key concept that is introduced and perhaps defined more formally in this document you know it provides scaling a kind of obesity it\u0027s really the kid forwarding entry Keeffe to the forwarding entry for the SR policy the traffic talks much more detail about its allocation various options and you know so on and so forth very quick on the steering things these are all detailed more in the draft so I wouldn\u0027t go over it but at a high level one simple straightforward way is steering using the binding set but then there are other mechanisms like per destination steering per flow steering "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:22",
    "text": "you know automated steering for let\u0027s say BGP routes as they come out as they signaled the SR policy for them is automatically computed and instantiated these mechanisms have been there in the draft from the very initial version the for further revisions have addressed comments and clarified them in more details the draft was first presented a year ago since then there have been several contribution from you know multiple vendors and operators so it has been updated to with all a lot of clarifications and details following those reviews there are existing implementations from multiple vendor it some of them are still in progress and also there are deployments and trials ongoing so it\u0027s really key work that we are doing here in spring in the interest of time not going into all the details but what would like to do is ask the working group to review it more and that we can discuss on the mailing list feedback but at this point the authors would also like to request the working group to you know adopt this draft as well any questions in fact the user routine area where I read haven\u0027t talked about the policy definitely is very complex so I think that\u0027s a user for the rule as our policy in fact he\u0027s not only the steering policy but also the tano set up a policy and the biding allocation so I think you I think that this work I use a useful but I worried about the scope of this walk because I think and now that you seem so that has another draft you the proposed related with the PFD policy is the idea that whose SR policy so I think for the past year so that\u0027s what we also has some a lot of policies related with the panel and the police literate relate he that we the traffic theory so I worried about the deso deso just on my worry the scope may be harder to be controlled so I hope that a user can be a clarity finder in the document that\u0027s my concern right so we\u0027ve had this stack this notion in segment routing of the stack of labels right but how how does it node define what does that mean and as we have discussed each segment could mean different type we have segments for all kinds of things so the SR policy what it means and what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:25",
    "text": "it involves is what specified or described in a document so it\u0027s not just you know term out there now what are the use cases for it I agree maybe there are many more use cases the draft talks about some of them but I don\u0027t think it\u0027s like a use case document in that sense I I mean I think it\u0027s for the working group to see how the use cases go but it\u0027s more formally trying to define the notion and how it can be instantiated there could be more about the protocol things the BFD and those aspects that\u0027s I think covered in separate drafts that we have coming up later in the agenda I don\u0027t know if that addressed the question yeah I think this provide a baseline and there\u0027s some like kits and said there\u0027s other document that were building on it so I it would be in working group interest that when we actually adopted talked may start working on it so there\u0027s a drafts can proceed that would rely on this I mean there are there\u0027s a separate document who talks about optical segments and there is you know all those are more detailed use cases about this this is just the basic framework about that I think we do need to agree what should go into this doc first these other things though it\u0027s a very long draft right now it covers a bunch of diverse things so I think having as we have this discussion around policies ensuring that we understand this document tells you about this and it\u0027s addressable for that that reason and then you split our additional documents and working out what the set of documents the working groups should produce is quite important yeah definitely I think we should discuss this more on the mailing list and see how to so policies a white time so maybe you can scope it at the beginning of so my name is francois clancy school i\u0027m going to present this draft segment routing for service training and this is an update since previous revision have been submitted before and thanks selection "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:34",
    "text": "that is quite straightforward i will summarize the changes since the last provision remind the base aspects the based on set described in the document and also give an update on where we are in terms of implementation particular open source implementation of the various concept described in the draft the most important change in this version is that we are actually merging to draft through drops that have been presented in previous ADF both have been presented in singapore the first one was more focused on the mpls aspects of service training for segment rating while the second one was segment in neutral and describe some proxy behaviors to support segment routing incapable or unaware services we also align the terminology with the segment routing architectural document so the s arc draft and also DSR policy draft and we added a table at the end of the document for the newest service its endpoint ads that are covered in the in discussed so first for the asana MPLS aspect an SI MPLS service segment is an SSID allocated on a segment routing MPLS router that is connected to the service that there are two two different flavor on phone service service legmen either it can send the packet with the MPLS label stack to the service acting in somehow as as an adjacent segment or it can implement a proxy function in case the service is not capable of first of producing a packet that has labels back on top of it and such SMPS service segment can be allocated from the local or the global label label pool depending really on on the usages we believe that it is more practical in most cases to have a local SID a local label but there could be some other usages that could benefit from having a global labor so we do not want to mandate one or the other for segmenting v-6 it\u0027s quite similar one option is to have a sitting spent rated on a router or an a services capable host that is connected to the service and that will either send the packet with the segmentation header to Ana services capable device or we could use a proxy function that is similar to the MPLS proxy function to remove on to hide the segment routing header before sending the packet to reserve their services unaware service another option that is new with a services that is enabled by bio services is to have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:36",
    "text": "really a segment routing awareness service that will have its own local soup table so it\u0027s the only list of our segment and could have different behavior depending on the active segment in the packet that it receives it could also such a segment routine visits aware service could also be some additional information in the segment routing header such as the TLD is the tag or other informations now how does the reservist segment integrate within the segment routing architecture it\u0027s quite simple actually the service segments are just another type of segment it and actually narrates all the same properties of classic segment routing I said all segments it is weightless the segment the service segment can be integrated with all the types of segments such as VPN or traffic engineering segment in in the same segment list and also one important thing is that it is a part to the end and the intermediate nodes the head and we\u0027ll just push a list of segments onto the packet either via SSH for services or an MPLS level spot and I believe we have a question yes Greg Merson City so when you are characterized as a stateless you mean that segment knows that host service functions don\u0027t have idea where the next hop is so you expect to program the whole service function chain with services from the head end program from the head and I assured that to scale because the idea of nsh in architecture of nsh that SFF resolves the next hop and that\u0027s instantiated in a control plane so you you do define the service function but by identifying the service chain and then each SFF as notion of where the next hop with this service function gene is yeah in that case the whole service train will be defined from from the head end as a list of segments possibly possibly computed by a controller so when the packet arrives at at the head end if the hidden that doesn\u0027t have a route for for the on the BGP next up on with the example of of BGP it can use mechanisms such as on-demand next that have been defined for the s our policy to to query a controller that will reply with a CID "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:38",
    "text": "list encoding the best service train okay so basically you exclude the case when you have classifiers within the service chain so to do reclassification based on the service function results no it\u0027s really it\u0027s really the head and that is the classifier okay so the only one cause for okay thank you just a small comment I think actually the that approach is more scalable because we don\u0027t have to put anything in the core or at the SFF it\u0027s basically everything at the end can calculate with a an outer PC or controller and simplifies things alright is the for I I echo at Emma then God said I exactly came for that theme coming so Ginga sheriff\u0027s have a different opinion but I don\u0027t want to talk about that specifically my question is actually a question on the proxy function and a clarification yeah I just want to make sure if my understanding of the draft is correct on the proxy function you need a separate interface whether it be a sub interface or VLAN or whatever it is segment path is that correct yes we need we need a separate interface as it is described today for each service train or for each segment list and in the future we may have some other type of kind of reclassification on the process but this is just basic basic behavior to start with and obviously it can be extended if needed yeah the second question is do you take care of the cases where like some some of the the pictures that I saw what kind of were simplistic pictures it\u0027s a it\u0027s an SF F to an SF but in reality you could have multiple instances of these service functions hanging off the same forwarder yes so and I want to be able to load balanced my traffic across and pick a particular instance so when you do the proxy function what that means is that you\u0027re actually if I\u0027ve got a thousand paths then I need a thousand sub interfaces per service now it becomes really unworkable so one of the options here and I did I\u0027m not going to talk about my own documents but there is an opportunity here to integrate this work with the work that we\u0027ve done on NS age because n SH has the capability to identify based on a path ID and then you can just use the path ID coming back from the service to indicate which segment stack to push back on the packet and you don\u0027t need any of these interfaces so it\u0027s just something to think about yeah if you need a proxy and if you use one of the proxy mechanism this part in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:38",
    "text": "the draft you may have some some scalability issues if a lot of a lot of service function instances are behind the same the same router or service function for mother time pretty it\u0027s kind of the same you know signature in architecture but that that only applies if you need a proxy and otherwise you can just have it specified from the head and then the head and will decide which which instance to pick my only concern is that we\u0027ve spent the last four years trying to persuade service vendors to implement an encapsulation to do change and now what we\u0027re gonna do is ask them to implement yet another encapsulation which by the way in four years by the time they get to it there\u0027ll be another encapsulation wait so what I\u0027m trying to say is let\u0027s reuse what we actually have so we can actually you know separate the problem there\u0027s there\u0027s the forwarding element to it but then there\u0027s the service plane element to it and the service vendors are interested in the service plane element they don\u0027t care about the forwarding aspect so that\u0027s why it\u0027s important maybe that we can integrate with some other work that we\u0027ve already done in IETF and I think it would be interesting to ditch this key suspect okay hi Alan silica just very briefly on your single classification just to point out that if you have multiple services you can get an explosion in your classification space if you have to do this product across all the classifications each service wanted and then subsequent to that if any of those services happen to modify the packet in a way that the initial classifier can\u0027t predict then your initial classification begins to fall down as well that we really depend on the on the approach to implementation if you use a proxy if you don\u0027t use a proxy then you don\u0027t need to reclassify anything so I guess we are fine that intermediate segments so now yeah it\u0027s the ultimate slide and I will be I will be very fast and so in terms of implementation we have some implementation of the proxy functions that are open source in Linux using the SRX kernel module and also in FG dot IO VPP and we now have also some very well-known and use services that are segments using v6 capable which are IP tables and of tables and in in the case of these two the segmentation capability is even in in mainstream so it\u0027s supported today really and it\u0027s not is coming as well the patch is ready it\u0027s not mainstream yet but it it will be coming "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:38",
    "text": "and the next step is ready to to seek working group input and feedback if you have any question any comment suggesting on how to improve this process please let me know ok hello everyone I\u0027m Carmen Rosa I\u0027m introducing present in this draft a services yang model for base and Static just a very quick history of this draft this was zero zero version posted last ITF and this is version zero one which merges two drafts this draft rasa for service six yang and drafts who from Holloway so this is the one combined draft that I\u0027m presenting now ok so this is kind of companion document or companion yang models for SR v6 and network forming document so so familiar with this document is is most needed in order to understand this yang model it fine so over the overview of the yang that we have that we have this this model basically defines two things one is a base model for SI v6 SRV six sigma roaring as well as a static application that could use that you could use to configure static sets your static and point behavior in the base model basically you know it defines my procedures and configuration leaves for managing your service except system as well as we expect that this base model that we have defined here will be extended by the relevant technology models which are already in works for a service six area for IES is bgp service function chaining and whatnot so so it defines three modules really in in this specification bail at the types model which is a common definition for a service six constructs the base model which defines the base you know items to configure as - displaced as states for a given service except system and a static model so in the base is these are the base items from a service 6 net program document that this more this young yang model defines and we expect this to be reused and and applied in other yang models as we go further in the base config instancing model what we really have is a simple thing that how do you enable Sigma routing what different parameters you specify for the data plane for encapsulation TTL procreation in future perhaps some qsr items as well as well as the fundamental piece for the yang for a service six is a locator so how do you specify a locator you know and how do you enable it so that\u0027s a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:39",
    "text": "base config and with the base configured as a state model for the base as well which really captures three main things the the state for the node state for the node capabilities for the locator as local said node capabilities just basically tells you what what this node can do about a service each different type of end functions it can support signal parameter which a GPS will signal for services capabilities as well as different rules and counters that are given played from a hardware could support so this is just straight for the node straight for the locator is simple but I think most interesting is state for a given state so you can have a state for a given set you know how this set is allocated what are the endpoint behavior how which is being forwarded you know path structure for the forwarding as well as a per state counter or aggregate counters are defined at this point in time so I\u0027m going fast because we all relate and I have only five minutes this model also defines this notification they are only two of them defined right now probably there will be room for more and we will extend as we go along and we find a use cases so this this so this basically concludes what the base defines the second part of the document is a static application as our v6 currently defines how you can configure a local set using a static in a static manner you know and different type of endpoint behaviors you can use and then you know as said of course you have to use forwarding construct in order to not only allocatable also forward traffic on your local set so it defines a construct to to allow you configure a local set and and also specify encapsulations and encapsulation could be a service 6 or could be an pls if you just to recall n dot BM allows you to have a services of cassette but forward an MPLS tables so just to conclude next step for this draft we have a couple of pending items which we have captured in section 5 q s things argument support in your model and more and function support in our static model so we will address in a future revisions at this point in time you\u0027re just seeking for a working of input and feedback on this raft I like to I mean if you have any questions or comments please collect don\u0027t think we have time for questions yeah so I was fast enough alright thank you very much all right thanks hi my name is Ophir Ali I\u0027m presenting this graph on case of mono mic waters from differential spoilers next so when we started this was the first thing that was a reality that s our v6 network would be sitting alongside classic ipv6 so you would have nodes that would be a service a cable and you will have nodes that are ipv6 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:40",
    "text": "capable and we want to start with something base that can work in a mixed network in various interworking scenarios as we start to roll s or v6 now one of the things that this browser starts with this chart is a classic paying and then we start to go into something like paying we are Sid list so it is main point is that is relying on icmpv6 for that purpose so that the classic nodes can operate seamless so you don\u0027t have to upgrade the classic note whether that classic note being the destination node or that classic note being a transit classic note it will it will it will just work seamlessly for those and same thing applies for traceroute so this would be like a classic trace route that we use with SRH inserted so the packet can route through the route that we want the packet to go through or we think the package should be going through and but if we have a classic no TTL X pairing of a classic mode it will work seamlessly it would not know the rest so the only changes that we would really need is it\u0027s not the transit node not the destination node but the ingress node which knows that it is trying to construct a trace route or a ping via a Sibley\u0027s now then it drops it goes into about something like ICMP paying if if you are going to a destination are you trying to ping a CID on a remote node and in that case you need to define a behavior which is one to behavior at the remote node so one of the things that in the bank behavior that we need is a CID which is in this we define a sip behavior in the network programming document as Anderson n dot OTP said and the construct for the Enduro TP stated that you can actually have that said in the SRH and have the target node burn the packet for further processing so in this case the target node is the destination road where the a for : : PC 45 set is implemented so you put the end or OTP state ahead of the target set and that makes the target node point the packet and send the response back [Music] for traceroute 60 seconds oh okay thank you okay so we have two billion workplace rule maybe a new hop by hop yeah yeah yeah yeah I I just do this and then then so for hop by hop a traceroute this business as usual all the node hop "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:43",
    "text": "by hop based on TTL expiry will respond to this face route and there\u0027s another flavor which is with the the definition of obit in a network programming document that can help us to implement some flavors like proof of transit which is described in the document and because interest of time are go fast here and then based on the construct of rendered OTP said and the öbut we can have flavors like hopper hop trace route which will trace both the sry see capable node as well as the classic MPLS node and the overlay trace route that will skip through all the node that are not part of the SRH and we\u0027re only basically over the node that are part of the SRH in the Sibley\u0027s with that in mind who like to actually ask the working group for more feedback we need to work more on it this is a starting point for the work i I think if it we need to talk about anything like working group a rotation but if you want to is fine I think we should discuss on the list so aren\u0027t you have a 10 second question or last couple of scope questions is there this am from Google is there a way you can determine MTU or MOU and the second question is is the scope captures where you have known as so whatever you call the green node in the front and still do the esrom yeah yeah it is copies known as our node for sure and and for the MTU let\u0027s I take it offline probably best thank you thank you thank you so this is for us our MPLS we have BFD 58 84 which defines be a synchronous mode over MPLS OSP and that it should be applicable to a sarong pls it should use hello sleeping and now we have a sir LSP thing for us our MPLS defined so the requirement that above the BFD control packet encapsulation can be IP or ACH encapsulation the problem that might be exists here is a similar problem the same as with the generic traffic engineering path that there are paths at being monitored from the ingress of be if this session is disjoint from the return path of the be of the session from the egress the ingress so thus failure on the reverse path may be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:45",
    "text": "constant may be oops may be seen by the ingress as a failure of the path that being monitored because no being this diagram will report it as a failure in the diagonal so in order to minimize this possible false negative it\u0027s good to control the reverse path the reverse path can be controlled using extensions to LSP thing that\u0027s defined in MPLS working group document BFD directed or it could be done using non FAC element that explicitly lists SIDS that should be used for the reverse path another out to controlling the reverse path could be to use BFD demand mode the nice feature of being the demand mode that it could be done on and off dynamically and the note that is put in big demand mode would not be sending periodically of de packets so thus in its construct that we consider for the traffic engineer at path unidirectional being monitored note a and B can bring B of this session to the Upstate and then ingress puts egress in a demand mode thus it B\u0027s ceases to send periodic messages but weaved B note consent messages with a pole bit set that changes its status namely when it detects the failure from a so this is covered in b FD / NK less demand mode which is in its individual draft and b FD working group so this is just shows their everything so let\u0027s hope do I have time for one question yep thank you Sam from Google is any casted in scope for BFP if so please knocking okay thank you next is the far no more than five minutes okay so this is a work that talks about looking into some of the requirements that starts by looking at some of the requirements in terms of the SR policies and when we are trying to run VFD session on top of the SR policies what sort of consideration we need to make so few things one thing that the SR policies does not require any hop by hop signaling or any similar "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:45",
    "text": "mechanism so the previous mechanism like say for instance of bootstrapping be every session really we don\u0027t know a luxury for doing something like that second is that s our policy states by fundamental design are only and only at the head of the English node no other node in the network has those states so for B of D over SR policy we should not be creating a state at the tail end of the policy so that\u0027s one of the requirement other thing is that in many deployment scenarios or a mostly the most of the deployment scenarios the BFD s our policies are ancient cherry on demand basis like odeon use case which means that the mechanism for BFD has to be fast because the policy before it starts to send the packet on to the policy the ingress node light to verify if I have data plane connectivity so whatever time we take for bootstrapping PFD or anything has to be me - it has with fast session progress and it has to cover both MPLS and s r v6 data plane because the policies scope is equally applicable to MPLS and ethnicity data planes so when we look at from this angle like we\u0027re going to look at the classy PFD and also as BFP so classic PFD has has the issue of bootstrapping the session on the remote end and it will slow down the process and and then we don\u0027t have any signalling mechanics to do that so they\u0027re two issues second part is that is bi-directional by design so you have BFD States on the tail end of the router which s our policy does not have any state actually with the tail end so if we start to use it classic via v4 s our policies who will end up creating states at the tail end for the purpose of PFD which is not example second part let\u0027s look at s BFD from that perspective so SB FD is faster in terms of session activation and because we don\u0027t have to bootstrap anything and and then second part is that the it does not create any state at the tail end so scale would be completely stateless for the VFD which is the desirable goal for this our policy architecture so the statement in this informational draft at the moment is that s b FD is more suitable in terms of used for the SL policies then classic P of T so we like to get some feedback "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:47",
    "text": "break go ahead yeah Greg Muskies T so as you saw it was in the previous presentation if you have traffic engineer SR then you cannot guarantee that your forward and reverse path of SB FD session are corroded and thus if IP network that you return your s B of the packet fails and doesn\u0027t converge with your detection time your you will have false negative another thing is that will we we will be bringing we try to bring it to this meeting but agenda was to fill full discussion of bi-directional certain O\u0027s so for the bi-directional a certain O\u0027s s BFD is very you suited yes I think this is their eye I think the first comment regarding return path not having a return path towards the source we should discuss more offline because as this so I think that\u0027s got that offline and for the bi-directional policies we did notice cope here in this work but we can discuss that offline and and talk more about even and have it here thanks okay so I\u0027m going to talk about how to use Sigma routing to support as he has may be in service okay here\u0027s a motivation we know that opinion has been widely deployed to support multi-tenancy service in the operators networks recently we have facing then new and emerging services which have more stringent isolation and the performance requirement such as the bandwidth latency Jeter on the shared and network and I think Stuart has given a presentation about the framework of yeah he has repealing the RTG WG this day basically the enhanced VPN is aimed to enable the multiple customers was the mounting service in a shared network and also it came sure that high performance was a higher ISM reasonable and scalable scalability also as we are talking about 5g and whistling can be although this in technology this map is anjana useful for the in the 5g context it can be used as a underpin for the narrow slicing well you should be noting that it is not our God hooray totally replace its existing VPN service because we should try to reuse existing technology as much as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:48",
    "text": "possible if it is good enough for the service but the purpose here is to designed a new service for the high demand elation and performance for that kind of customer service so let\u0027s take a look at the existing VPNs we can go through it quickly and the overlay VPN basically this has very limited requirement on the underlay as the NHS provided connectivity and this kind of service that can provide the isolation in the address space and the routing of forwarding tables but this kind of services of different customers live you share another resource in the network so this will result in the uncertainty in the performance another service is the VPNs can be deployed with the TRC as the underlay the TL speak can provide a proposed traffic engineering to him and also can improve the resiliency with the TI Farrar but usually the TRS feet are shared in the network by multiple services of multiple VPNs so that it cannot provide isolation between the customers and due to the scalability issue with it is not widely accepted to deploy the Pro VPN service dedicated T our speed and network and now we have the Sigma routing we can using routing as and early for the VPNs where it is well known that same routing can Pro can have many benefits like the last protocols and last States to maintain the network and the can support of flux post surveys past programmability but we can see that the currently the segment routing they\u0027re using the shared seat in the forwarding plane which indicates that there\u0027s different services we will share the resources in the network in the data plane so the what is that the enhanced VPN we think the principle here is that it will provide a tighter integration between the overlay VPN and another natural resources I think this characteristic is independent of the overlay between signaling so it will apprise to others the vaping types like a looser VPN layer 2 VPN a VPN and would believe the order in order to achieve this kind of enhancement some technology innovation in the forwarding plane will be needed because there\u0027ll be the beautiful nation for the unguaranteed natural resource for each VPN service and please refer to the technologies mention the framework document and by the way we need to mention at this draft will be moved to his working group later and how once we have this enhancement in the data plane how about control plane and basically the control plane should provide the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:49",
    "text": "capability to create a customized the virtual network with dedicated natural resource and this the control plane should be agnostic to the specific forwarding plane technology used to guarantee the resource and although we think that the number of the enhanced Lybian will be much less than the existing traditional VPN service still we should consider the scalability in the beginning so the same routing with resource reservation we\u0027re saying currently this segment out in to provide the natural virtualization and resource partition is covering the current charter but still within the country a sonic technology does not fully support this resource reservation because services passing through the same links on note was share the result in the data plane will cause the resource contention due to the nature of the IP traffic like the traffic burst needs et cetera so we need to extend extend and segment outing to support its kind of resource reservation our resource partitioning basically the mechanism is to do it in apology aggregated resource reservation so that is still comply to those sm routing paradigm as you know purpose upper flow state introduced to the network and what is what what we do is it\u0027s that it\u0027s narrow segment we will allocate different settings CCC\u0027s to represent different partitions of the resource on this segment for allocated for each different topology and then a group of the series associated with the same topology can be used to construct a certain route inversion network with the resource resource in the underlay then can map to between services to the dedicated same around in virtual network depends on the service requirement it can be very flexible you can do it one by one one to one mapping or one to an end to one mapping this is it depends on the requirement of the service isolation and performance so here\u0027s an example about how to do the city allocation in this approach we can see in this network we can use dedicated seats to represent partitioned link on know the resources and the seats in the same color represent this is used in the same topology will be used to construct the isolated virtual network and this kind of different virtual networks they are truly as would allocate isolated in the data plane and this it shows how this packet of different enhancer e-peen are treated in the data plane basically we can see that a different enhanced VPN "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:50",
    "text": "the service parts of the differently has VPN will be constrained to the its own virtual network topology and so it will only consume his own resources reserved in the network you can support the straight path forwarding and also the load path forwarding okay here the over overall procedures of this mechanism I think I don\u0027t need to go through go through the details basically we need a controller on the top to do the topology and the resource computation then it we need to do the topology resource allocation and a niche network element in the network and then we need to advertise to see it and the associated resource information in the natural so that each node is aware of this but apology virtual networks and finally we will find a VPN service to these virtual networks to achieve this enhance my pian Jeff ensure inertia clarification and clarified this when the presentation was done at routing working group while talking about restore reservation you\u0027re actually talking about extending path computation logic on the controller to be topology aware there\u0027s no resource generation in seconds routing what server you mean currently right yes I think it\u0027s important otherwise your slides is misleading you don\u0027t introduce resource reservations in symptoms routing and this is what slide said we need to do it both in the controller and also in the data plane it\u0027s a at a snotted by the Harbor House signaling you really need to explain yourself we know how with the research recipe and so please explain yourself yeah I think this we can see this a picture basically you use for example only one link will have three C\u0027s its it actually it represents a partition resource on this link so you need to allocate as a particular resource in the data plane for this link for this seed and another seed on the same link we represent another portion of the net resource on this link so they are isolated and in the post in the control plane also in the data plane I think just point is that you you want to partition resource in the network so Teresa reservation itself is in the PC or controller it should be done by the PC controller yes not by Springer not by yeah we need to allocate a different seat and you want to partition in spring in spring in the later plane but allocation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:53",
    "text": "is to be done in a PC on Europe yeah allocation is a time the PC Kate internal record Cisco we discussed this draft offline but I would like to echo what Jeff said whatever is been presented in this slide all these things are not there really explained in the draft the exact mechanisms so I think the draft needs all this clarification and I\u0027m also confused about where exactly and how these resources are reserved and how it is done the trafficker n\u0027t Lee does not clarify so I think it\u0027s important that you describe and put all those things so that spring working group can review it because the concept is you know bringing reservation in the network and setting up is very important change and your final thing is this is a called a standard stag draft so we need to review it even more carefully okay I think maybe you and more details about the procedure in next version so farily one comment is that the requirement that you have can be meant with mechanisms other than we should talk offline the requirement that we have can be met with mechanics that exists in signal out here so maybe we will be happy to talk a bit more offline this clarification so the first day you the resource reservation I think so now the as Harvey can assume that a is always to do the bias at the Mission Control in the QC u controller but I use they are sonoda Axford the Budweiser guarantee you know forwarding plane so the this is the messer the explainer here used not only for the panel why sodomy other means admission control but also the finalized the reservation in the forwarding plane this is a first point the second point I think that regarding the kittens kittens the comments because I think that I\u0027m Charles te RC BT at the item you can to the resource reservation but the in fact is not a explain how to use to implement a resource reservation but I understand that you so we\u0027ll be done in the data plane so I think that this may be the seminar definition or description for the for this draft so that season my okay then we don\u0027t have to secure mean "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:54",
    "text": "okay like Eugene so we over time already you can please thank you thank you I think it\u0027s thank you for your time have a good trip back to my cabin thank you and see you in Toronto Moria [Laughter] "
  }
]