[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:28",
    "text": "e I'll go grab a bit of water sure funny thing is the more I read about um read the the new pups up the more I think that it might have been a good idea in resource directory as well to split between the resource that is representing the registration and the companion resource that is um that contains the the re the links that the re that the registrant uh wants to publish um back because at some point when there's for example one res direct is proxying for the for the um for the registrant the prox the the the registrant might want to know a few details of where it is being proxied from and right now the only way to get this is to treat like registration look up question mark endpoint equals my endpoint name um to to to get those details and that kind of works and that is kind of those are kind of the two resources but it's a bit of a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "threat anything you can kind of hack using location path yeah thing is we already use loc so we we we already use location path right so so really this is um if if anything that and and the thing we're pointing to is the the data resource in pubs up terminology and we can't really medle with that because that is kind of under the control of the registrant so yeah sorry guys are you talking about the pop up draft or something else we we I I I was musing like like in until we are starting officially about how reading pops up makes me wish that we had taken a few of the points that pops up makes into resource directory and also done the split between the registration like the data resource and the and the registration resource so to speak um baked in there it's it but it's but but to get there is a bit backward so you mean like the are you talking the topic configuration resource yeah exactly so that the the the in in in resource directory terminology the topic configuration resource is kind of the the resource the registration lookup resource filtered down to a particular endpoint that kind of takes the same role um yeah but this it's not explicit you mean it's not explicit yes and it's not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "it's not following following the Hat's um principles but it's kind of depending on the on the on the Rd application and to use it you don't have to just look up where you register but also where you do resource look up and it's a bit convoluted anyhow I think we're we're approaching the time that Marco you said you wanted to start checking car are you back on keyboard oh cool then yeah let's get started welcome everyone to this inter meeting of the co-working group uh I'm Mar my coach are and Carson Borman and as usual the not well applies please get confident with that if you're not already it's not just about IPR but also in the special about our conduct so be nice and professional with one another and we have quite a nice um and growing and growing agenda for today um we have right now in po position corov with some updates on siden K from Ken ER and then updates on the ongoing update um of the pubs up draft um from haime uh then Esco will go through some uh outstanding open points on the group comes document following a review um from John post working group as call actually and then there's two more points uh raised from Esco if I'm not wrong uh recently on the notes uh that is worth discussing and last item at least for now is uh some planning uh on the next intering meetings uh if there's no further topic I think I was really hoping to be first to present that work for you carsten quick um uh announcement uh document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "status so Target attributes just was approved by Rob Wilton so the announcement is not yet sent but he has approved it uh so we will have a registry for Target attribute names soon congrats congrats Carson all okay so hi me you can take the floor um so will I share this are you sharing the slides or should I you can share them yourself just take control just a second so uh I prepare quickly some slides today um mostly updating from the ones uh from last April um so there has been so as a recap quick so by the way Marco how much time do I have at the end because since there has been some reshuffling I think even 15 or 20 minutes would work but okay I can do I can do a 10 minute presentation and then we can uh focus on the discussion because it's a small group anyways and feel free to jump in anytime so um as you remember popsa has been there already for quite some time and we spend a bit of time this year to try to wrap it up um based on some uh design inspiration from the claes thing to thing ARG papsa draft and Marcos uh group group admin draft so version 12 already introduced the new uh resource structure with a topic collection under which there is topic configurations uh with some properties and on which of one of the properties being atopic data that is the thing that publishes and subbe subcribers uh can interact with so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "that's basically the the same design as we have today I can show you basically as you know the publication and subscription pattern uses Co-op uh as protocol so Co-op clients are both Publishers and subscribers and the operations are uh put on a topic resource and get with observe on another topic resource and and that's how this subcription pattern happens uh I will just skip this part quickly because there's no need nothing new there um on the topic well again like the topic is structure basically you have a topic collection resource on top uh that allows you to disc discover the list of topic configurations you can fetch uh by using specific resource types uh the the topics topic configurations that you're interested in and and you can create new topic configurations on under this collection um topic configurations again like you can create them you can delete them and update them and so on and properties basically are um attributes that allow you to tweak how the public uh the Publishers and the subscribers interact with each other how for example how many subscribers can you have uh do you want to give it a specific topic name that matches your application that type of stuff um let's move on um as I said the topic data resource is a resource that is create so is a resource created during the topic configuration phase so a topic so a client which is probably some sort of administrator role uh creates the topic provides these properties and um creates a and the broker creates a placeholder resource for the topic data uh then at some point a publisher publishes and the topic is in a in a state that is fully created I will go into the life cycle in a moment um until then basically it's just a placeholder and then on this topic data research you can do the usual publisher scrip type of interactions so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "subscription publication uh read the latest value uh or delete a topic if you have the right uh require the right authorization subscribe and unsubscribe and so on uh then so that's the very quick overview a new thing that this draft introduced in version 12 the previous one was the concept of live cycle of the topic so topics are not fully created by default when you create the topic data uh you are not creating a a fully functional resource so to speak uh but a placeholder so you create uh you get to do a post under the collection resource you create the topic configuration you can see here on the left side of the screen you provide some parameters uh as I mentioned before like topic name resource type media type anything you you want to I mean maybe there's no point of going through the parameters but so that you are aware of it um and then you will that will return from the BR er uh location um the by the way the paths are of course not uh static you can I mean you can you can use you need to use Discovery for this to find the path for the collection and to find the path for every single for every other resource um in the draft for example for for explanation purposes I'm using Dash PS and and slps and SL data but you can use any other and then um at that point the topic is half created and then when a publisher finally publishes something on that particular resource subscribers can then start receiving notifications can subscribe um and and the topic changes to fully created similarly if you delete the topic data you go back to half created State and the topic is only fully deleted when you delete the the the topic itself the topic configuration itself anyway so all of this is let's not go into the workflow because I think this is still known already from the last part there is as I said in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "previous IDF I did a quick implementation using ioop as base and it was relatively easy to to do um I will update it on the hackathon by the way I Dro this now if anybody's interested to interrupt or to to play along with this implementation I'll be happy to them and to and to test stuff so please uh join the hackathon in the next ITF um then so we have some uh discussion items from the previous ITF so are there the questions were are there some topic properties missing on under specified I we actually did a bit of an exercise trying to find new one and and we added another one I we'll go back into that a bit later uh then topic name is an application identifier so do we need some uid space for it uh I mean the basically the conclusion on that one was that the as long as it's Unique per collection uh is fine that we don't really need to mandate anything specific spe there uh then the max subscriber I person I mean as it is on the draft now is basically treated uh with a normal Co-op observe uh response when it's when you reach Max subscribers so basically you uh cancel the observation and then you just get the the latest notification uh then on the authorization part basically we will be following the ace uh working group uh draft on on Coop pops up so uh that part should go on the security considerations that's uh not yet finished and actually I will get to the to the main new things from the slide so basically this these were the things to be worked on work out for the next version which is version 13 which is the one I've been working on and these are the items that actually were achieve so um we did let's start with the things that were done and then we go into the things that are still missing if you if you if you don't mind so we have now the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "Ayana section we corrected the text for Max H to treat it correctly uh we did change the examples and make sure that the but I think not all of the examples actually most of them have some seore uh formatting examples if I'm not mistaken um then the Observer check property uh that was added to the properties to regulate the subscribers list um then basically there was no Discovery for topic collection so I added that too I also add a few examples uh then there were some comments from 2019 on the GitHub issue tracker so I replied to those because they were kind of a bit orphan um just to wrap it up basically um there has been actually you check the diff there has been a lot of changes uh not on the fundamentals but clarifications and and editorial stuff and you know reording rephrasing providing more examples and then um I also address Marcos very extensive review um for the most part few things are still missing and I get to those right now so first the security section is in progress uh I will try to work on it and have a version before next ITF uh but basically I will try to refer to the ace draft and try to get inspiration from the uh G admin and from other similar security considerations oriented drafts but I mean a a lot of the fundamental security considerations are of course covered by Co-op and etls and all forth and then the the maybe the item that could be for discussion today but I'm open for to discuss anything um the topic configuration and data resources uh where should they be hosted because the intention before was to do the following to have the possibility that a co-op server is hosting the topic data resource for a topic configuration"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "so someone uh will be creating a topic configuration and during the creation time it will place the it will also uh send the um the full URL uh of the where this uh resource is hosted which is in a different server and then subscribers can find it and subscribe to it directly in a distributed fashion so you wouldn't be hosted at the broker so initially this sounds like a simple thing to do but actually it implies that you need it's more complex than it seem at first so B if we do this a lot of the properties of the broker a lot of the um state that is kept in the broker now it needs to somehow be uh share between these two and therefore you need a protocol between the two servers to make sure that the state is updated um again it also messes up a bit the life cycle part because if you delete the topic data then you need to inform so if the co-op server to deletes topic data resource he needs to inform the broker in some somehow so that they changes the state of the um topic configuration resource and and just like for topic data it happens for anything else like any you know if you reach a maximum of subscribers or if there is some error or some some problem of some kind so basically it's not not not trivial uh unless we don't want to track anything in the broker that's also a possibility and um and basically that's the high level overview and uh that's where we are at it I went very quickly through it sorry for that please jump in the can you hear me I hear you okay yeah I hear some Echo now and I had"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "a question on the previous picture actually uh if you can go back to that so yeah that's the one so you mentioned the uh difficulty of implementation there so is that not not something that the implementor has to decide how to make that interface and make it work um because it does not have to be a standardized interface there right to talk between the two uh servers here um right I mean like we could um so my assumption was that we want a draft uh that has uh normative language at the end of the day um leing I mean I don't know about the scope I mean of course you could just leave it up to the implementation but I think that that would be a bit um you know leaving it in hanging so to speak I mean we we discussed that maybe we could just leave it the draft open enough so that anybody else could feel free to produce another draft that specifies that behavior but I think that it's not easy to implement maybe it's easy to implement I don't know to me it sounds more complicated than it seems initially yeah because you can imagine there could be even uh for example I Define two two servers with maybe different addresses or I addresses or host names but eventually they could point to the same machine that has a maybe relatively simple implementation uh locally so it it could look like two servers but it could still be on the same machine or maybe it's on two machines but there's some very fast uh I don't know some very fast network connection between the two machines so then they can keep things synchronized so in that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "case yeah I just wonder if if there's a problem there um could just allow this I mean uh of course the the specifications should say what is required of that implementation I'm just saying it should should not be impossible to achieve me no no no it's not impossible I mean my concern is that it was not as straightforward as I as I hoped and the pops up draft itself is pretty big already so um I wanted to try to finish it first also because it has been so long in core um so I wanted to maybe like have the basic stuff done and then extensions could be add yeah yeah that sounds good I'm just was wondering why uh should there be a reason to explicitly forbid this kind of operation or or do we just leave it for the future right not not for so that's a good point basically um um I mean this is a very good point actually how to express it because right now the topic data is something that we explicitly say that is created by the broker so the topic data resource the Bold um we could leave it open and but then again it says Li slope because if you don't Define it well you need to come up with a maybe I don't know a section with Kats if you use the uh the topic data hold posted in another server but if you do that section then you might as well have a different draft as well or or a you know three more sections defining it properly so that's what I mean like uh it's hard to Define it u in a in a light fashion at at the same time mandating something specific so anyway yeah okay thanks yeah I think it's important to to think about the ways we're going to evolve this um so um having the the data"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:05",
    "text": "on a different server than the broker is probably a valuable feature and um we can Define things in a way that a client a subscriber should be prepared to find things that way now so we are we explicitly not forbidding the topic data resource to be on a different server than the the topic resource and uh that also would be weird because we wouldn't even be able to Define what different server actually means here so let's just not do this so the the client should be prepared to to work with this um and uh for now the broker could do this together with the the data owner in a proprietary uh way um so that that would be the the state that is supported by by uh the current draft um but uh I would think that the the feature is actually going to be most valuable if there is a standard way for a data owner to do this so a data owner can interoperate uh with uh different kinds of Brokers and and offer this functionality and that case we need to standardize a a protocol between the broker and the data owner uh but we can do this in a second step and we don't have to prevent clients from using that feature uh even before we have a standard protocol how that that defines how to implement it so this is the way I would do this I I agree and and also I want to clarify one thing like the clients so subscribers and Publishers um there's no no problem from their point of view like they can publish And subscribe on that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "topic data is as you say is the protocol between the two uh the data producer and the broker that that is missing at the moment like how to keep track on the the topic how to keep the topic configuration updated and and current that's basically the the main issue yeah let's do that in a second document sounds good uh Christian okay um I won't say much more about that topic which we've I think we've all said about the same so let's just not forbid it and then do the rest later there are a there is one other aspect about Pub slop that has been irking me for quite some time and I've only recently found words to express it um that is that I think it's doing a lot of things that are actually independent um so for example it's introducing metadata about resources like distinguishing a topic from an just resource with things like um having a tombstone representation and that kind of things uh we introduce a way of delegating Authority on a resource because especially when one comes with a mindset that dink could have been around for for quite some time already um then in a sense uh a a pops up a data resource is not so much different from just instance kind of creating a reverse proxy towards an resource that is actually under the authority of someone else being the origins being the the publisher even though the publisher may or may not be expressing it as a resource but conceptually it is one and as a third thing it's allowing the this this pubs up broker which is kind of acting act acting as a reverse proxy to populate the caches in in a reversed role so by by doing a put instead of a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "notification and we've made good experience with rolling things up that are that that make a single protocol in into into different into kind of rolling different components of different layers up into a single protocol I mean Coop does this by doing the message day in token all in the same header but I think it would be valuable to think about these far enough that we can see in pubs up where we draw the kind of where this falls into those different parts just for the authors to have a rough idea so that when we come to a point later where we want to explicitly uh to to use some of that functionality without us using the rest for example someone is finally getting around to doing sleepy devices and they want to populate the caching proxy that they have in front of their device by actively sending a new representation there to to allow that in a way that is compatible with what the PPS up broker is uh without like without changing PPS up broker again so I know that's a that's a a lot of things in the late State um but I hope that if we if we discuss this and find the the valuable parts that we can split it up a bit just conceptually so that there can be a kind of I don't I don't think this will need much of a text change it's just a bit of mindset that might ident help identify one or two pieces where things are reaching like way across the layers in and and shape them in a way that they are not that much um linking the layers so for example um we have that concept of the um and now that tab is going done um we don't what do we call it not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "Tombstone um the a a representation of the resource that it has when it has expired and that is something that a resource can also have when it is being reever when it is being proxy no matter whether it's reverse or forward proxy and just thinking about the name again there and whether the name whether that concept can apply there as well might already help uh get things along thank you Chris so I mean I even remember if I'm not mistaken at some point there was actually a draft on reverse proxy for coab no like or like the was it the there was a a very early version of a or of a papsa broker draft like seven years ago that was very simple and and drafty and kind of proposed that as well but I get the point that you making like um to try to find this uh minimal um I don't know how to express it like minimal components that are generic that and try not to bundle the bandle them into the papsa draft as it is um and and a lot of these for example like you mentioned the metadata about resources so like that would be the topic configuration so try to keep it h by the way do you want to try to keep it generic in case that in the future there is another um there's further specifications of these little components right is is that the case or or is more like sorry the the I'd hope that things are kind of things like the metadata are generic enough that if something behaves like a topic it like if like if if any of those metadata apply I could just as well describe them for for a resource that is just sitting on my server for example things like it it has an expiration date something like that um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "or it has a maximum number of people that I will allow to this to observe for whatever that's good for I don't know but um right it's this this is not related to thing being a topic or maybe it is but then what does it mean to be a topic so is the property of a resource yeah yeah and and yeah I mean I think that is possible and I mean I think the draft is more or less generic in that sense and the properties are also open to extension I there's just a handful of them that seem Universal for any type of resource um but but yeah I mean I I agree with with what you're saying basically like in principle I agree I I I don't know if I fully capture it in the draft but I'll be happy to modify it if I didn't uh yeah I have two points one on this same uh Point we've been discussing um I just agree with K and Christian uh it's something to be done later in the future and engineered later in the future as long as we don't prevent it all together um here um in that same Spirit what can help here um is stating that if uh a topic data resource exhausted somewhere else than in the broker we are aware that a certain number of issues uh will arise and it's up to a a dedicated protocol to address them properly um so it would be good to have an early idea of those issues and I think we started to identify those uh already um otherwise I had in mind some more input on the security considerations that were uh brought up several times and yeah some a document um help uh there are two of them and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "they contribute in different way um the one that contributes the most I think is um the pubs up profile of Ace um and basically as is uh it provides a possible security model that can be used as is here but only for the operations of the Publishers uh and subscribers um the other document that you mention in Ace Oscar gim admin uh well that considers um the group manager of group oscore um so the most uh helpful role that it can have here is more an inspiration for um a future companion uh document providing a security model to use in pubsub but for administrators and I don't know maybe in the future there will be such uh such a document in Ace um I L this to the notes by the way but um probably the security considerations of of the cor P sub document can uh write something along these lines on what Ace can offer today yeah I mean the I agree and I read the 700 lines of notes from the feedback and I thank you very much for it and the security part basically um it requires deeper thinking and more time and I didn't just I just didn't have the time the other day so but I will duly note it and and I will try to to address those as well in the security section um on the topic of the so I think we are in agreement for the topic of the having topic data resource in another in another host like um in the draft I already had a section that I removed recently because I as I started writing I also noticed these problems and I thought that they were too big to keep in this draft as I mentioned but I could maybe on Section I could create a new section 3.5 for example I don't know if you have the latest version open but um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "the 3.2 is about topic data interactions three and basically section three is about publish And subscribe so I could have a new section 3.5 in which I I I referred whenever I mentioned topic data being hosted elsewhere I refer to the current state which is that uh a a topic Creator may choose to put this topic data elsewhere uh but there are certain number of problems that would require further work on a protocol specific protocol that is not yet there so be aware and so on so like keep it a open would this be something that the group sorry it's Toco would this be something that the group agrees like is this something or the the people in the call at least agrees to have that that could be useful on on how to express this in the in the draft or is this section confusing Frank Frankly I think it would be totally fine to just say that to just have the note that this res uh this link is not necessarily Rel relative references but might point to any any any compatible URI leave it at that and if someone really wants to implement that then they I think they they would better be served by say an early draft on how such a protocol could look like that at least addresses all the problems um without having having the list of what could go wrong in the main document basically I will do instead of a new section the smaller modifications in the topic creation and in the topic in the definitions of the of the terminology so that the broker so that we don't mandate the broker to create the topic data and instead leave it open for anybody to register any URL that they want as to Bic data that's correct"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "right no I think it would still be the broker that it would still be the broker that puts in a URI there but how it arrives at this U be whether whether whether like before it's creating this it's talking to some other resource or whether it's in full control of the resource naming there or whatsoever that's implementation needs ah okay okay okay okay because in my mind I thought that they The Authority comes from the whomever is creating the topic not from the broker necessarily um maybe I'm wrong here no no no I think that's what you're saying is actually what Marco was also agreeing on uh but I think it's it depends on the use case I suppose well there has to be the URI to the topic data resource wherever it is if it is somewhere else of course the your eyes pointing somewhere else and it's possibly an absolute U but yeah it's practical implementation specific then yes but but what I mean it's like it's not the broker the one deciding that you right then for the top in general then no only if it's if it's hosting the resource itself yeah right okay well from the point of view of the client of of the subscriber the broker is deciding um the client doesn't see that the broker really has a different uh source for this information because the client is not aware that that uh there is this new protocol we haven't designed yet is is running in the background right but from the point of the publisher the publication goes to a different server so that could be I don't know that could that could raise an issue if the configuration is in one end point and the data in another I don't know but okay but I think I get the general feeling and it's more about words meeing the the actual specifics"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "about the draft I think that's more or less it I'm wondering am I missing something is there anything I'm forgetting about for the next version that I should have covered and I assuming here that people have read the draft obviously which I guess that's not the case well read the draft is it's a bit weird because that draft doesn't exist yet right um so we would need the draft read it I mean it's in the GitHub rep it's not I it's kind of not yet fully available to the working group and we need to to get this done first and and then we can ask people to uh look at this absolutely absolutely I just didn't want to increase the version number more just for the sake of it9 sorry we can go up to 99 yes let's try do that let's try to do that okay so we are waiting for this uh v13 uh what is your time schedule for that sorry I couldn't catch there was a bit of noise you repat what what is your plan when will you uh have a version 13 so the the so I could submit what I have right now if that helps to get the draft reviewed um otherwise I could write the security considerations and submit it before the cut off uh from then for this ITF basically and whatever you like best well to me this is kind of a Continuum so um if you already know about some security conations write them down if it slows you down just publish the v13 with some DVDs in it um sure I mean I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "can it's hard to find the time that's the main problem that there's lot of deadlines for many of the things so yes so I I I just would be happy if this wouldn't uh come in on the 23rd but uh maybe a little earlier so we don't have to read all those drafts at the same time I understand I can let's do this I'll do a a version 13 now but please the security consideration just ignore them otherwise I'll try to pull I'll try to write something more consistent maybe tonight or tomorrow night or some point at night and submit it at the end of the week but I cannot promise I really can't great thanks a lot hi Mand all for a good discussion okay uh the next point is carting with Cor if it's okay I'll leave now thank you very much canish the slides thanks okay um so um we are a little bit later on the time schedule than I thought so I think I will try to make this short um so uh carun is moving forward uh yango as you know has been published a while ago course is in isg again the telat date is next week um so there are various reviews coming in uh now and and one was a bit weird about Yang identities trying to handle them like user identities that that doesn't work these are different concepts so I don't know how where that discussion will go but I think it it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "uh kind of uh not not really uh it's just a confusion of terms um Andy has made a pretty strong concern that I completely agree with him that we need to get some progress on publishing uh standards hit files for for other uh ITF protocol so uh we should start a second document for doing that um C Sid says we we don't actually put those Sid files into the um rfc's uh but that is fine we can work on them uh in in the internet draft and once we have the Registries in place that are created by CID uh we can just move that information over so the the document in the end will be very short essentially just pointing to those standard sit fights um and and maybe providing some addition information on them um so that that's something we could do to allay Andy's uh concern uh here and probably what we want to do this before the 19th um so that's all I think uh we can say about kid at the moment because it's it's really in isg's hands uh we have had um a working group plus call on Cori uh which uh passed three weeks ago uh and we had uh a couple of uh uh comments one by Tom patch who who looked at this with netcon glasses um and there are a number of conventions that that uh the the netcon net mod uh people have that that we are not following mostly because we just don't know about those conventions uh so Tom has given us some some nice feedback on on how to make this document more accessible ible to young people um including declaring normative"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "appendices as normative uh which is the the inverse of what we normally do which is uh declaring informative appes as informative but of course we can always do the other thing as well um so that that's useful that will lead to some clerical work um Andy's uh comment has some some more uh technical some more detailed technical considerations he also has a number of editorial uh points uh and he would like to see more examples that's probably a good idea except that uh we we are currently a bit stared on on the infrastructure that I needed to uh validate them so that's uh why examples are way more work than they should be um but um um he also has some some more fundamental observations and one is that uh the document really tries to to eat the cake and and still have it uh on the data store architecture so on one hand it just says coron uh data stores have a unified which means simple uh architecture but then there is a single paragraph that says oh if you want you can NDA as well the new uh management data architecture that that is in RFC 8342 and that doesn't work if we actually do support nimda there is a number of of problems uh that that we have to address that we we have to say how how it actually works uh with coron and we have way too little implementation experience to actually do this at this point uh so my proposal here would be to to uh just defining the Unified form and leave nimda support to uh a separate uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "document and I I hope this will not be groundbreakingly different but there there are some some considerations about uh um the the various kinds of states of data stores that nimda uh data source can be in and uh we would have to Define how this works in coron environment the Assumption here of course is that for for many uh coab based implementations the data store will be pretty simple so we we will get by with this unified uh architecture so the the question what happens if two management entities are changing the configuration of a temperature sensor at the same point in time that is maybe less less relevant to us than than to other management environments so that that's one thing which I think I would have an answer for uh the second point is is uh really important um so in in Co we have this request response architecture and uh there is some text in the document that says um if you are making accesses to the data so uh using uh keys in instance identifiers so you have something like uh um the list of your coab observation relationships or we don't even even have a uh Yang module for that but let's assume we have something like that um then uh you uh would um maybe you want to to access uh these instances separately uh using some keys like the IP address and and the port number and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "whatever um and uh the the trick that this document seem tries to pull is that all this information about which keys were used is not repeated in the response so you get get the the pretty much naked information uh for these instance identifiers you still get a sid for where in the schry you are um but you don't get the actual Keys like this is for IP address this and that and the port number this and that uh in the response and uh that has two problems one is that the the media type we have defined there uh really is expecting a full instance identifier so some Implement if some implementation um actually processes this media type as defined that that creates nonsense and the other probably and he hasn't said it in this detail but we might need to put some some work into the correspondence rules so how do we know which parts of the fetch um do relate to to which uh responses so um I'm not entirely sure what needs to be done there uh but uh we at least should should pay some attention here so that's uh actually uh interesting um again we probably don't have that much implementation experience for this uh specific case because we don't even have the Yang models that that would do that uh for us um a third observation is that um with the the way the data store is currently defined um you essentially need to get the whole thing um to find out what keys are available for certain instance"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "identifiers and uh that of course can become expensive um it may not be very expensive uh because uh the data stores for constraint devices are small uh but one question is do we need the depth and and our Fields parameters from restcon and if not what what is our answer to the question how do you find which keys are relevant uh for you uh so again I think that needs some some design uh thinking and this this unfortunately cannot be discussed on a trivial example because in the trivial example it just works uh we probably need a a bit more uh complex example to to think about this uh problem so again maybe we have a way to say you can do this now and and we might might want to add parameters later uh but again I think we need to to have an example to to assess this first um yeah then then we have the requirements for error handling um I would have expected that we have All or Nothing semantics but we don't say that so if you update three data items and the the update of the third fails then the updates of of the other data items need to be rolled back um but um yeah so this this might be done by by reader writer locks um instead of rolling back that there are different implementation uh Technologies here uh but we need to find out whether this creates uh too much potential for for Deadlocks and or long delays um and um yeah then then there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "were further questions like can we completely Elight the output uh Yang structure if if there is no output defined uh for an IPC um yeah we probably can so we would have to Define rules for when and how to do that which is also a piece of work and we definitely need way more examples then uh to to show what uh what happens when this is not the case and when it is the case uh then there was a pay comment I I still have to ask Andy what exactly he meant about the extra layer in the encoding for zero so if anybody knows what he meant please tell me or I will have to ask him and uh finally there is a pretty weird um thing in Yang which is the ordered by uh property of of um what what is essentially an array so there are some arrays that are uh ordered by the server so the server might sort things in alphabetical order or or show things in insertion order but the the it's not something that the user the client of the data store is supposed to change to control and that there are other um arrays that that are meant to be ordered by uh the client so the server cannot go go ahead and and reorder uh things or just show them in insertion order or something that the order as created by the client needs to be preserved and we are not taking apart that issue at all so uh I don't even know what what kinds of problems we have because it's simply not discussed so as you can see there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "there's quite some substance uh here um so my plan right now is to try to get as many fixes into a-h 17 as possible so all all the stuff about the editorial issues about uh Yang document conventions that that we we have violated uh we can probably do this simply do this and then we can focus on the more fundamental questions uh probably by turning them into GitHub issues and then doing a little bit of design team uh meeting and uh maybe get some wider feedback in Prague so by Prague we should have uh the these issues uh captured and and maybe have the first uh uh comments uh on those issues in GitHub so I would have love to to just put a l on these things uh now but there are some issues and as I said maybe for most of the issues the answer is uh there might be a document later that that provides a way to do this um but we actually have to decide this consciously we cannot just push all these uh comments away so this is the the status of uh Ki which doesn't mean that you cannot Implement KI today just for those cases which are uh discussed in the document it it works quite well uh it's just that Yang is this absolutely humongous Universe in which there there are all these things that are going on and uh you have to relate to these things questions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "comments yeah just a side comment if they don't change the preliminary agenda too much Cory should stay in the second half of the week so if we manage to have the all way discussion in the first half of the week then we may have something good to confirm during the course session okay do you happen to know when the netm meeting is I don't remember that we can check net comp is on Tuesday and net mod is also on Tuesday so uh yeah maybe if we carry some of these issues into those meetings they might have a full agenda yet uh but maybe we can at least uh do um heads up there so we get some input during the week makes sense or is on Thursday right now see what happens I have seen very little very little feedback the feedback would have to come until today so I'm not sure that there will actually will be much in the way of changes okay any more question comment for Casten okay if none uh thank you Ken let's move to ESCO for group one B yep seeing where do have to click for the slides ah okay now I got to pop up yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "okay yeah so this um slides were basically based on the review comments that we got from John who could not be here in the meeting I understand but anyway we uh can discuss it so we picked uh a few of the topics that I think require further discussion from this and those are shown on slide two so I've given them uh uh names actually all these issues so they were originally they were bit formulated bit differently so here have four issues we also have a link here to the GitHub Branch where we process the new text based on the comments but um I'll quickly move on to the first uh com then so this is about using the experimental or obsolete protocol so in the context on the top here of the slide you can see uh the text from the draft basically and uh the sentence highlighted in Boldt that basically says that uh it's not recommended to use the experimental protocol from RFC 7390 and now the feedback from John is that of course that uh just because it's experimental doesn't mean that that something is not recommended to be used um so that points to maybe uh thing that we should have phrased differently so uh I was guessing that yeah one of the possible things that we meant was also that uh it's not recommended because we actually obsolete RFC 7390 so this could be one of the reasons why we wrote this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "um yeah maybe also as a background we did add this sentence after working group last Co comments that we need to clarify why we use the past tense so we say that the RFC 7390 defined so it uses the past tense so why do we do that why not just present tense here it still defines the experimental protocol so this was just added to to clarify our past tense um but after some discussion we think that uh as authors well there's no actually no harm in using the experimental protocol it's still available um and then I'll move on to the next slide just to show some proposed Solutions so in terms of the text um what do we need to do to resolve this commment so we can just remove the sentence and say okay the RFC defines the experimental protocol and we don't say anything more about it so it's left as an exercise to the reader if the obso of the draft will have impact on using that protocol yes or no to be honest I also don't know if that has any impact but that's one first thing we can do I see Carson has his hand up have some input here yeah I must admit that I think about this protocol in the past tense and um I I would like to to stick with that so um this was an attempt at the time um and I don't think we actually want to recommend using that I mean yes you still can use it but it's not the the direction that we would um guide people um to use so the it's been a long time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "since I looked at that so I I cannot say why I'm thinking that uh but that was when we discussed overhauling 7390 that was essentially what we had in uh mind that we um really didn't find a good use for for this protocol so if that has changed um I'd really like to to know that and we we shouldn't uh change the status the perceived status of this experimental protocol uh just based on on some some grammar issues uh here so an experiment can end and uh for me the experiment here ended by seeing nobody implemented this stuff um so that that that was something we we learned from the experiment and we may not have formally recorded the the reasons why implementations didn't happen but I think if we spend a little bit of effort we might be able to do that okay so in that case uh you can think of it as obsoleting the protocol as well along with the rest of the RFC and thereby concluding the experiment no so let me think the the comment was actually that wouldn't it be better to just still use that experimental protocol as opposed to something completely proprietary for that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "that is if if the experimental protocol fits of course the requirements of the use case es if you go back to the previous slide uh yet another radical solution is um just removing all the text except for the first sentence so finishing at Co-op group creation yeah that that means not mentioning the not even mentioning yeah yeah so uh would it be align with your thought Caren well yes we could just add that um 7390 defined an experimental Po and that experiment has concluded yeah that would also be fine for me uh to mention okay basically removing the text in bold yeah and then changing I think the text to say that the experiment concluded yeah yeah or hereby the experiment is concluded yeah well it was concluded a long time before that four yeah okay yeah so I would find that okay as a solution so U can propose some text based on that I think Marco also okay yeah yeah yeah sounds very good thank you okay right okay then we can maybe move on to the next issue see no more hands here yeah so there was another aspect we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "uh have is the use of unsecured Discovery so Co-op multicast no sack mode for Discovery we do mention in for example section 6.1 that early discovery of devices and resources is a typical use case where the noack mode is relevant of course the danger here uh as from the review remark is like okay this is something that people might use as an argument to move the heart problem of of security away to somewhere else like saying okay oh I have uh a discovery use case so I just forget about the security um and the comment says well we need maybe concrete examples of secure deployments where this makes sense to use NOC mode uh so I think we could clarify this a little bit so what do we mean with early Discovery um what I had in mind here was um basically today's solutions for secure device bootstrap so there are some some variants out there and um not not all of these use co-op in any way but they can also use other message types and if you have a secure bootstrap solution then there is always one of the steps is an insecured Discovery step so it's something that's always there and cannot be removed otherwise you you would not have that method at all and the concrete example that uses Co-op as one of the possible Discovery options is constrain Brucey so there's a link put here we now refer to it as C Brucey and the draft name is draft ITF anima constraint foucher and this is still being developed in anima working group so we could actually mention that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "as a possible Solution that's also the one on top so we can make an informative reference and say that this is a secure method but it does use a co-op noack Discovery step in the very beginning uh so the rest of the process adds the security and the yeah the in insecure part basically is embedded in that as part of the overall method and of course the the called NOC communication is not used for any application communication like sensor data actuator changes Etc that uses all secured communication or that that's supposed to use that so that's one option we could do there uh second one we could say we don't make a specific reference but we just refer in general to secure bootstrap methods uh as a way that that could use Coop noac or maybe a future method that could use Coop noac and then we probably have to explain a bit why this initial disc Discovery step is not secured so as a background it comes from the logistic assumptions that I used so device is made in the factory then sold through resellers and then it ends up at a future uh at basically at the customer where it's turned on for the first time and it doesn't know a pror where it will end up what's the environment so it doesn't have any security Keys related to that specific environment so the secure bootst process makes sure that the device can securely join that new network that it doesn't know yet you could of course uh yeah make that more secure by adding all the required Keys Etc permissions already into the device at the factory but that's yeah requires some Logistics operations that are uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "difficult uh basically drives up the cost and the effort to get the devices at the customer side reduces flexibility as well so there's a couple of methods that use cure bootstrap so mostly bruy and farian I listed here so I'm okay with either approach here so we could take these Solutions or something else if if anyone has uh ideas on that any thoughts on this um from my point of view the first option sounds better because it's more explicit and give you reference but that doesn't exclude all together the second one right it's just more information more context okay yeah I was thinking the same thing if the comment was about uh having a concrete use case well the top one is more concrete yes that's right okay so that seems fine we can uh propose some text for that I think okay thanks if no more comments we'll move on to the next issue uh three out of four we are now so we have the sentence sensitive and Mission critical some yeah at some different places in the draft and also the opposite non-sensitive and non-critical use cases is is used so yeah for the top one we say we require security while for the bottom"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "one the non-sensitive ones we say okay we do allow no sec to be used in this case and the comment was that well it should should rather be uh made a bit more strict so um the ITF VI would be new security unless it's really proven to be not sensitive so it like if and doubt use security basically and it also mentions zero trust encryption methods uh that require usually encryption everywhere or almost everywhere I think that's uh for me the authors and the authors it's agreed although the encryption everywhere does not apply to to all places like secure bootstrap is a notable exception I think to that so the security this is not yeah like from message one already present but comes later in the process so I think we can require this uh yeah updated text to make this uh clear that it's like okay you use security unless it's proven to be a not sensitive application like maybe an example toy application or something where it's not require absolutely not require right yeah I'm having a hard time with with these terms like Sensi sensitive and Mission critical and so on uh because in the end you have security objectives and um some of these may be obvious some of them may be less obvious because for instance they are privacy related um so the the the objectives are only uh created by by people actually doing something that has privacy issues um and I I'd rather come from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "those security objectives and and whether they can be fulfilled in in this environment um than by saying something is sensitive or nonsensitive and and therefore we can uh do no s on or need uh security um so one important Point here is and and that actually comes up in the secure discovery of course is uh that we have this concept of proximity and that concept of proximity can provide um some form of security that that is different from the kind of security that we normally uh have in mind but that is totally appropriate to do uh some uh steps in in the life cycle uh of a device so um we may have steps in the life cycle even if the device is sensitive in the end uh because it's used by children and and we don't want their Privacy Information to to leak out um the way that devices actually integrated into the household uh May uh use steps that that are not yet uh assuming the presence of this sensitive information um things like that and and so it becomes really more complicated than than just having these binary and IL defined well it's like like Sensi different that's right so then that case it would be more kind of rephrasing it according to the security see requirements and objectives of a particular"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "application and that the yeah protocol should be aligned with that of course yeah let's see what I had in mind for proposed solution so um this is some text that is already proposed here basically to replace uh two mentions of these uh sensitive uh Mission critical applications yeah so the proposal of the text is basically uh kind of turning around the the argument so for so it's the new text basically says okay it must be protected by using group of score with possible exception uh mentioned here so that's exceptions are the non-sensitive non-critical applications or specific well defined steps where security is not viable or intrinsically unattainable then we come back to this early Discovery example again yeah but again security is always attainable the question is what kind of security what what are the actual security object so when when I'm running around in the University I'm in noake mode uh people can can talk me up um but uh we need to progress from that NOC mode to to a mode where where we actually know who we are uh before we we can press discuss any project details or something um so uh the the question is really whether we have security or not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "uh but what we actually gain by having that communication and um if there is no way to ever get to a place where we have security that is a problem and there's also a problem if we can do uh D based on uh uh the the unsecured part but saying that security is not attainable I'm I'm not sure that that is actually what's going on yeah I think the unattainable means that um yeah that it's like would be like a specific step of of a process and then maybe the process can attain security but it's not possible for example to obtain it already in step one of the process because right whole point of the process is to to to get there in Step so the the whole DNS system wouldn't work if we didn't have a lot of steps that that require very little security right yeah so that's why trying to say okay the exception is these these steps where just not possible to start from from uh directly from with securing everything so these are the exceptions here yeah in particular if you don't don't know who you want to be talking to it's really hard to secure that communication and so we have protocols like bruski that let you find out who you want to be talking to and right I think that's really important to to say we cannot sprinkle some some security pixie dust on on those um steps in our life cycle because we we just don't know enough to to be secure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "yeah okay but it's still a bit of a binary uh recommendation that we give like okay it's like you must use group or score for security and there are a couple of exceptions that's the uh the other case so it's like yes or no um I'm not sure if it's yeah kind of if we can avoid that all together yeah so again we let's talk about security objectives and if if the security objectives uh don't allow a certain kind of communication to work in no mode then don't do that yeah so maybe that's one one ways to phrase it in those terms like I mention security objectives of the specific application and perhaps mention some examples where no why not just the application but also the specific step in in the workflow that this application goes through yeah okay then uh maybe we can update the text to that like uh Bas it on concept of the security objectives okay we'll see if we can come up with something there think it requires some more thinking but as a quick input it's I think about U steps specific steps that are proven to not require security or to not afford it so that would avoid the talking of applications in general and to use the the adjective sensitive and critical it puts the focus on exact steps and it's about yeah requiring or affording"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "security something like that yeah I hope that's clear enough we can think about this uh yeah maybe with some example uh would help to clarify that okay thanks yeah I don't hear anything no I'm done I was just thinking Ken oh okay okay oh he still has his hand up so that's why okay I'll move to uh number four so that was the remark on the goop group um that basically in the text we say it has an optional address and an optional Port while in the figure you can see in the red box screen it has a a mandatory address and a mandatory Port so that seems to conflict that is basically context uh so conflicting with the text and yeah our response is then as follows so what we intended was uh yeah that basically first section uh 211 defines the co-op group as shown in the picture so we have mandatory attributes of the address and the port number uh which are always there so it's not optional and then the other section a bit later so 2211 defines more how the co-op groups are named and the the rules for the name are different because we say that the name is actually uh the group U and the U is a bit of a different uh thing here so it doesn't have a mandatory IP multicast address but it may be present as a literal but it also may be not present in case a host name is in there so then you don't see an actual multicast"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "address uh the UDP port number may be there or it may not be there in that last case it will be the default Co-op Port so this was the background and then we have a possible solution here so uh we'd like to update the text and there's a detailed proposal given here so first we say that the co group is always defined by the two properties so there is an address and there's a port but for practical purposes it's identified and named by the authority component in the group U and then we explain that this Authority component contains the host and an optional port number and I think this text still needs a little bit of simplification because it reads uh a bit awkwardly long sentences and so on repetition but the idea is that um the host subcomponent could directly Define the address in that case well you have the address but it could also have host name in that case you first need to do the step of resolving the host name to an IP address and then you have the address so I think if you explain this better then it should not be a contradiction anymore between the text and the figure you think yeah I think the the problem here is that um to actually exercise IP multicast you need to know the address there's no way around that so at that step at at that point in in the procedure uh you need to know the multicast address um but you can actually talk about groups uh in many ways so for instance set up security for groups uh before you know that multicast address uh so saying that that this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "information is mandatory or optional only makes sense in in the the considering where we are in the process of actually using these groups yeah okay I see that the point is like you could have a configured group that only has a host name and then only later on when it gets resolved basically you um get the address but I think what we want to talk about is maybe the specific yeah group communication uh request basically you send out the co-op multicast and at that point in time you will need to know the concrete IP address to where to send it to so in that sense it's mandatory otherwise you can't perform the group communication at all but but you're right in sense like if you define like uh someone comes to configure devices and and enters the co-op group at that point in time it can be identified by just the name host name for example but then the the real Co-op group is not yet known so the parameters are not yet known although it does have a name at that point any comments records you have one yeah I just thought from my side if the cor group has a name shouldn't the name also be shown in the in the figure ah okay I see what you mean so it's the uh basically we say the name is done by the auor components in the group U so we could just it's like derived from those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "like have a name as well there yeah if that's like a mandatory aspect of the cor group that it has a name and that's why it's identified by yeah perhaps it should also be in the yeah well even that's not not strictly mandatory you could say uh I just Define two parameters so it's an there in a port and I don't Define I don't even bother to Define uh any U or authority of that so I don't have a name but okay as as long as you have an address in a port it will automatically have a name whether you want it or not right so in some cases the name can be derived from the address and the port but in some cases it cannot because it if the name is a host name it's like the reverse you drive the from theost name instead so yeah and it can be multiple names as well that's what we explain in draft so you could have aliases for example you can have the basically um yeah the port explicitly defined or left out and it could still be the same pointing to the same I see what you're saying yeah yeah [Music] um so that's also something to take into account yeah yeah one knit I notice only now for consistency on on the top left of the figure for application group maybe we can just say application group name like we are doing for and probably we are going to do for the co-op group yeah that's good point yeah and that was another review comment I think like uh please use the the complete name and not say just group type of group okay okay so that requires some more thinking but this was definitely good input think about that so we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "different uh considerations at let's say creation time or usage time for the co-op group now let's see if we can can do something with that all right so I think we're uh kind of out of time for this session and also this this was my last slide yes thank you very much Esco and on the next two items uh can you perhaps start a thread each on the mailing list yeah I will be okay probably the text from these notes as is is good enough yeah actually thanks for that and uh on the final points uh yeah not super urgent we just wanted to mention the plan for the intering meetings after after uh Prague and it's mostly about synchronizing with cabore actually and Christian I can send a separate mail to you and Barry you can just have a look at that but it's the usual Cadence and if you see no problem we can start thinking of this chrisan if you're talking I can hear you Cadence will be fine okay um we'll send this around on the list anyway also to confirm with the working group um okay uh that said since we are out of time uh thanks a lot for your time today thanks a lot Christian for taking notes uh really appreciated uh talk to you again in two weeks uh have a good cut off okay thanks thank you had a request to stick around oh yes so we could use the room even if this is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "no longer as a work group meeting we could use the room to maybe talk dnss uh stuff sure okay yeah that's fine for me I still have a little bit of time now so yeah then go ahead let's go think Christian had a problem with this audio uh it seems uh he left I think he's trying to rejoin oh okay okay that should uh maybe help yeah I'm just think I was looking for the text for the item I have that provides maybe some context be nice to get that on the screen see if there's a way to uh share the screen maybe I'll try that ask to share screen yeah choose what to share okay then I'll just choose the window here yeah so this was the question I had put forward so uh I know we already had quite some work to map between the nssd and core link format and I was based on on recent work request like isn't there just a simple straightforward way to kind of take a DNS SD service definition and then mapping to uh core link format link that will basically advertise that service available at a specific"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:03",
    "text": "port and yeah the idea was there like hey can can we make that a generic mapping so uh otherwise you have to define specific uh basically core link format parameters that are specific to the application at hand and if you already have that defined for dnss D which we we anyway do then why not yeah have a method to Simply map that uh so I think the things to map are just um mentioned under point two here the simple use case so uh that's things like the service instance name a few parameters the fixed parameters of the SRV record and the data of the text record yeah so my my answer to this uh would be um show we could do that um the way dnss D is representing service information is very contorted uh So you you're not mentioning PTR records here which you also uh need to put together the nssd information um and I wouldn't be particularly happy if people were starting to think you have to go through the same contortions to do coab Discovery as well so if we find a way that that actually reduces uh the the dnss D complexity which which in the end is simply caused by the fact that DNS is a really lousy substrate for D nssd um we don't have to be that lousy so if we can get a mapping that avoids the contortions I would be much happier okay yeah yeah I don't think that uh we want to replicate uh like all"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:03",
    "text": "the all the things with records uh that are done um but yeah mostly there are a few things that are always typically being done in always the same way indeed so it as PTR record so that's basically just the way to say okay we have a surface type and we have a specific instance name so it's not yeah just just basically uh having a string for the type and and a string for the name and there is uh some parameters like uh priority related and then there's the free form text record data that which is different for each service yeah so if we can define an abstract for form of the D nssd data that that is not stuck on on the DNS representation level but actually defines what the information means uh we might be in a better position to map this to to call Discovery yeah and I cannot do the work because I'm I'm not an D nssd um expert but I I have seen the complexity so uh I would be really happy if we yeah could uh do this from the abstract point of view and not from the specific DNS representation form yeah I think the problem is made easier by by doing just one way and not not dual ways like suppose you want to uh encode everything that core link format provides in DNS so I think that will be really complex so uh certainly yes so that's maybe not a good goal in that but I can maybe start just start reading up on the previous documents on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:02",
    "text": "what was thought about there and then uh see if it can come up with anything uh yeah based based on the kind of minimal data that should be in the service representation great all right so we use these eight minutes well thank you yeah thanks that's some good input and we lost Christian anyway probably he had major problems even in rejoining but oh okay yeah it's more than just the mute mute button and please start the threads on the list anyway on both points you may get more okay I will uh try to do that this week yeah great okay thanks a lot talk to you in two weeks yeah see you then thank you bye bye thank you bye bye"
  }
]
