[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "[Music] Wow should we get started okay good afternoon almost evening if you wanna this is the mile working group session so if you are not expecting to talk about the managed consent like in exchange you may want to switch rooms so hopefully everybody is familiar with the note well I\u0027m trying to look at faces is anybody new to mile no good so just be cognizant of the ITF note well rules for the agenda today I think yeah we have TBD so I\u0027m going to go flip these two slides so I want to thank Dave for taking notes on the ether pad anybody else who\u0027s willing to help you\u0027re using the ether pad link that is in the IETF agenda so feel free to click on that and you can see the the notes being taken live the minutes and Thank You Mia for being our jabber scribe so for the agenda today we can go through hopefully rather quick on the miles status and then we\u0027ll have an update on the JSON io def draft which I believe Alexi had a conflict today has gone through and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:08",
    "text": "state has now changed meaning the last call it\u0027s now going towards the iesg publication comment review and publication so I don\u0027t think we need to discuss on that other than to provide updates based on the feedback because we had quite a few comments that one and then we\u0027ll get excuse me clarify the precise state of JSON I you deaf I just checked in the data tracker it\u0027s actually in still an IETF last call until August first okay Aleksey okay let me check in my email because I thought that was going to be an update so maybe it didn\u0027t get updated I think about it it can still get updated despite the fact that it\u0027s in last call but it\u0027s it last call flight oh okay thank you for that clarification mm-hmm okay and then from there we\u0027ll have the updates on our two remaining outstanding drafts the extensions basically to to Roley and then we have a little bit of time left so if there\u0027s any other business we can address those as well so any other things that you guys want to add or modify on the agenda blue sheet we have one blue sheet up here so if anybody needs it okay so I\u0027ve already thanked the volunteers with respect to the milestones I think we we need to talk to a Lexie because if you look at the milestones dates and the actual mile website we need to update those but from the actual work we did finally publish the XMPP grid it\u0027s now our CAA 600 the JSON IO dev has received quite a few comments during its last call we need to confirm from the ad that it can move on and then we have two remaining drafts that I\u0027d like to ensure we have enough reviews so that we can put the last call and get the shepherding going towards publication okay so with that I think we already went through the the discussions of what happened in Prague and how we\u0027re proceeding now with respect to the vulnerability draft I\u0027m not sure tacky I think I saw comments from you from the vulnerability but I\u0027m not sure I saw comments from Jess or from Kathleen okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:09",
    "text": "okay okay you need to provide comments it\u0027s just to make sure that we have some reviewers on the vulnerability draft yeah and Chris just thank you Chris okay well I\u0027ve got to go back and take take account yeah so I was asking for at least three reviewers and the same thing on the see sort of extension draft I honestly don\u0027t remember seeing any feedback well your name is on there and that\u0027s okay I was bad at Nanjing people too so um so if you can tell me Stephen later who all the reviewers where I can go back and see and and then what I\u0027d like to do at the end of the session is to take a notion of who\u0027s reviewed it and whether we believe we\u0027re ready for a last call for both drafts okay all right so with that let me who\u0027s presenting is it you yes okay so tacky is dissenting so this is just a brief update of SIBO Jason binding of AOF draft so nothing that important has changed most of the comments were editorial basically it\u0027s mapping between basic base are you deaf XML spec and JSON spec was discussed not so many was changed only a torial you can see so as you can see working a blast coded completed and AD and RFC has already provided me some comments he also provided me some opening comments regarding some editorial sound like a language staff so it\u0027s much better now by now and we are currently in the process of the IETF last call secretarial already provided the review but the quantities are nothing this adjust the content they are the same like the basic spec so there is no additional concern when we have a Jason binding so Secretary was completed which I didn\u0027t problem for the Jane heart "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:10",
    "text": "review he provided a bit more comments regarding its mapping between XML and JSON and actually I really already have replied and I don\u0027t see any big problem at all I\u0027m just hoping to receive some confirmation that the changes I made what\u0027s good from the standpoint was a reviewer but anyway no major issue raised until now so hopefully we can publish the draft ASAP that\u0027s about it thank you all the changes so you you mean published okay I did it but only in the github you got to change it that so small I didn\u0027t think we had better publish to the next version or if necessary I can publish as that you need to so that Alexi and then we can check with Alexi to you to publish right so that he can push that version okay I understand okay is that it any questions on this one good progress alright so which one did you want to do first oh it\u0027s all in one hey I appreciate it you you want the clicker thank you well you need the clicker very small pink box this time around alright thanks everyone for for coming to smile and come listen to all this so I\u0027m going to give two presentations back-to-back here on the updates to the two Rolly extension drafts that are being worked on and mile the first one is now that Scrolls kind of weird whatever we\u0027ll see if we can make it through the first one is going to be the vulnerability draft just got a new version of this posted go through some of the changes can you help me out here scrolling is is very strange put into full-screen does that help it does thank you okay so just to go over the changes really quick so everyone\u0027s up to date on what\u0027s been done to the vulnerability Draft some of the formatting has been updated in the vulnerability draft to more closely match the template that we\u0027ve been building out for Roly extensions it helps it a little bit more readable helps you follow the requirements a little bit more easily that doesn\u0027t include any normative changes and really the formatting wasn\u0027t that far off in the first place so this is not a major overhaul this is just kind of bringing a couple sections in line and shifting the hierarchy around a little bit just to make it flow the same way other ones there\u0027s no no major changes as part of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:10",
    "text": "this we\u0027ve removed the video from the volunteer the vulnerability description ontology was determined to be too unstable it\u0027s still in a draft format that\u0027s an is publication and so we\u0027ve decided to remove that from this document and when the time comes if the time comes a separate document can be written for that format this is for the there are two different formats for CVEs that\u0027s used there\u0027s an XML format as well as a JSON format those are the nvd XML and NVD JSON formats in order to make the differences between requirements more clear I\u0027ve split the text into two sections made it a little bit more readable and it flow a little bit better that doesn\u0027t change the requirements the requirements are the same the intent is the same the wording should just make it much more clear okay and that was the most recent version of vulnerability that was just posted new version of C cert was just posted and then another new version after that to include Chris\u0027s changes the this was actually changed it was made almost immediately after the last IETF but I wanted to include it here the /resource location requirement is reduced because the requirement is inherited from 8:30 to 2:00 and increasing the severity of that requirement was deemed not necessary and put an undue stress on on implementers the /resource already is fully compatible and fully interoperable with with Rowley and with this extension and you don\u0027t need more requirements to make that the case so I see the I think that was the only normative change in the caesar document and then a lot of typos spelling errors and things were fixed as well the one major typo that was changed and this was thanks to Chris\u0027s comment and I\u0027m forgetting exactly what it was because it was like hours ago that I made it and I did not I did not update this PowerPoint hours ago so I well these changes were made against the revision the version that Chris review yeah correct time right yes so these dis is all accurate what I mean I\u0027ll send a note to list of that other change that was I\u0027m in fact I already sent a note to list about it so it that\u0027s fine okay so I think that both of these documents are done and ready I\u0027ve received a lot of good review and I\u0027ll get an exact list of reviewers to you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:11",
    "text": "Nancy I think you wanted some more and I think we can probably pin down a few more just wanted to confirm right we can confirm that yeah so I\u0027m actually fine doing well we need to take consensus in the group so a question for you on the vulnerability extensions where you had removing the video where all of those changes in response to comments you received the removal of video was not in response to a comment that was response to the author well just literally only me isn\u0027t it for vulnerability thinking that the and I was I was the one who thought it was appropriate to add in the first place and received some amount of you know vocal support that that could be a decent thing to add we\u0027d be gay then it was a right move I\u0027m just asking us to the changes that you made whether they were all due to comments I remove video because it was an unstable reference okay so yeah I think they\u0027re both ready there is one issue outstanding for both documents and this is actually in response to Chris\u0027s comments as well as talkie comment takis comments they\u0027ve both pointed out that there is normative language in the documents they are specifications that are written to ensure interoperability between implementations and that would imply that these should be standards track documents well they are extensions they should be standard documents right so I don\u0027t think there would be any issue in changing that designator to standards as we move to last call so before you move it to last call I think it would be good just make the change but let me just ask in the group if there are any objections to seeing it change to standards track okay for it to move from - from informational standards track I think some care has to be taken to update some of the references in the in the document because you like for CVE the references actually just to like www CBE might org what isn\u0027t yeah absolutely split between normative and informative and the reference that\u0027s yeah we\u0027ll have to make sure the normative language is clear versus informative I think reviewers so this is an opinion I think reviewers have been effectively treating this document as a standards "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:12",
    "text": "document because there\u0027s a lot of normative language in it I think that\u0027s how it was understood but we could ask for more review yes having only a handful of hours ago I would say that it does well with with actually being formatted more like a standards document than an informational document so - going over the the references I\u0027m concerned about that kind of Jeannie okay so I think I\u0027m okay and saying just convert let me know when you\u0027ve done that and I can put a working group last call okay before we put it out yes every state yep sounds like a plan to me okay all right thanks everyone yeah I tend to go over on these things but I really kind of got it short this time I\u0027m not bad okay so I\u0027m kind of hopeful and optimistic here especially since everybody\u0027s got their eyes on their laptops so how many people have read the drafts nice nice try okay how many people have read the documents and only two three okay I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s fair to ask if we believe they\u0027re ready for working group last call so why don\u0027t you give me the updates I will post them and I will ask the question which I need to confirm actually I don\u0027t but I can ask to confirm whether we\u0027re ready or I could just based on the reviews I could just start a working group last call yeah okay so in my optimistic form if we can start the working group last call and we can get the reviewers and I promise the non-jew Kathleen then then perhaps we don\u0027t need to have a session in Singapore are there any objections or comments or to that so as as the author of basically the two last outstanding drafts I think that sounds reasonable I think that if we can get this last call going and and really get the review in there and then keep it moving that there\u0027s not really anything that we couldn\u0027t just do over lists and I think at the most maybe a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:14",
    "text": "virtual interim if we need one but I\u0027m imagining we finish this up on lists well that\u0027s what I\u0027m presuming and hoping but that relies on responsiveness on the chairs and I miss much to blame as well as the author and the reviewers so for the next version of the draft during I guess once we open it to the last call it would be good so Dave you said you could review Chris you could review Kathleen you could review so I think and I\u0027m presuming you can do both drafts I mean talking you and I need to review them so that\u0027s a given table tomorrow just to be clear from the notes you\u0027re suggesting we do those reviews as part of the last call or yes okay yeah that way I can actually you or taki whoever Shepherds in to say it\u0027s gone through we\u0027ve addressed comments and go through the full process goodness I think are there any orders of business going once going twice okay I give you guys back 28 minutes plus a little bit more or like 38 minutes thank you everyone this has been good I\u0027m hopeful unless we receive a lot of comments right yeah well right at that pays we would have to do that yeah okay thank you everyone I was in offer Brett first mile down "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:41",
    "text": "that we could take some of the cacao work here okay hi hey I might return this but you know taka was asking and he said if Brent wanted to bring stuff that could pertain to mine because some of the capacitor is we could be chartered and keep mild going anything I can\u0027t see up there she worried the other hearing about how I use my right hands this one did was they optimized minute "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:44",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] [Music] "
  }
]