[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:23",
    "text": "hi all welcome this is Beno benoofreiner we wait for a couple of minutes for people to join still expect the number of people in the in the room to join"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:22",
    "text": "hi Jim uh no I was still waiting can you hear me okay excellent um we'll start in a minute yeah foreign excellent okay hello welcome everyone okay I see almost all names that give their availability on the on the poll on the doodle pole also here in the room so let's get started welcome to the dinosaur interim meeting um well there was one main topic on the agenda at the DNS terminology we come to that first let's open the session the denisop work interim meeting right so welcome so the chairs this myself Beno timbusinski Suzanne Wolfe uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:04",
    "text": "our ad Warren is also here in the room available we have Twitter we have jabber here integrated in meteco and the minutes will be placed on notes on the ITF notes website here the link follows below good uh as this is an ITF meeting we all expect that you are aware of the note well and you understand what it says part of the node well is the code of conduct guidelines won't repeat everything here but these are the six highlights of the guidelines and well summarizing treats each other with respect in your discussion an email exchange thanks we take this seriously the agenda so the on the agenda is DNS terminology um more specific I will go over a number of discussion issues discussing points we had in the past on the mailing list and at the ITF meeting last year um I propose that I will go over the slides in one go and then we go to to the back to the slides and then per per slide we discuss what well to clarify to get some consensus so Paul and fujivarasan can work under draft and made in second iteration or the next iteration sorry not a second a next iteration of the document and work towards consensus and working group last call uh not on the agenda but if time permits we can have time for an uh informal chat on alt TLD we didn't put it on gender because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "during the time we did the poll on availability it was not agenda so just to be clear on that so we wouldn't put it later on the agenda and then people see that well they couldn't Express their availability if they want to discuss this issue but still we think it's uh if there's time again it's good that we have some time for informal chat to clarify number of issues and of course everything goes to the mailing list or to separate uh entry meeting or maybe during the ITF but that's also up to uh the working group of course um well a lot of introduction maybe Warren do you want to did I forget something here as one of the authors not as the ad but one of the authors of the draft nope I don't think so I guess we'll just get through the the main agenda and yeah okay cool let's go so um [Music] any questions before I continue any questions on the agenda here clarification so the process is I go over the slides and maybe for clarifying question that's fine but for the discussion we go I go once over the slides and it will go back to the first slide and then we discuss in-depth um well this slide and finding consensus if that's all clear we'll go back to the chat is there something no okay excellent good so the DNS terminology so for this draft to make progress there are two things actually related it's the definition of belly Wick there's a lot of discussion has been passed here last year on the Beloved definition and related of course the definition of glue and uh and in that respect that's also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "relevant for glue not optional draft because if we can finish the definition here for this for the genius terminology also that draft can go further and maybe two words working group last call I think there's a lot of what I've seen on the mailing is a lot of consensus good um the definition of bellingwick again I go over the slides and then we can discuss it in detail later so the number of proposals so there's a definition of beloved from the document from the current draft uh and that goes into in domain sibling domain and out of bailiwick but also on the mailing list there was a suggestion to drop the whole term in baileywick because it was ambiguous and concluded um again yeah so should we go back to only use in domain and sibling which are more specific and forget about this term we come back to this later so the next slide or the next thing so what's the scope of use of Billerica it's a restrict I use it the word strict maybe there are better words here but do we only use it for well needed for the natural resolution as we currently understand it at least a group of us yeah so only the a quad a records or should we also extend it or the newer interpretation as as pulvertis also put it in the mailing list the newer interpretation of baileyweek does it also include the unisex records record types or svcb that's the second there's an uh in discussion issue point and now but to the definition of glue uh I could I took this definition of glue up from the mailing list uh Chris to uh to Dwayne uh well you can all read it out yourself uh important here is this follow-up discussion here is that the use of necessary for resolution"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "versus useful for resolution to proceed that's a discussion started by Ben Ben Schwartz and well the discussion was is not too broad ambiguous and um and or Etc should we make the term more specific for glue for in domain sibling domains as as the term is used in the draft blue not optional to align this as a discussion thing um yeah I think definition of sibling glue this is a term used by sorry this definition was tossed well used by Tony Finch but again here it's a follow-up discussion same as for the domain in domain glue or the the the what's called the glue for in domain domain name server or in domain name servers um strict do we it's only used to find the name server or is it more uh more broaden up a more wider interpretation that it helps uh or optimizes some process it's uh John Levine also made some comments on this um so these were the slides if people miss a topic that should be discussed today please raise your hand you get some time and then we go over the slides okay check the chat okay don't see anything no hands raised no okay ah pull please all right there we go so hi one of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:03",
    "text": "things remember that this is for 84.99 this yeah uh sorry it is um so it's Abyss document on an earlier terminology document one of the things that uh cosignor and I have struggled with is um definitions that are from the original documents that everyone has known for a while versus uh things that change and so Beno did a good job of pointing out some of the things that have changed and we don't know and and one of the reasons why I think that there is um uh disagreement in the working group and I by the way I strictly do not have an opinion on how this should go but one of the things that's important for us to say here so we can say in the document is are we trying to interpret the original documents just as they are are we trying to you know meaning for this definition or these definitions because we're now talking both definitions of sibling of I'm sorry of baileywick and the glue or are we coming up with new definitions based on the way the DNS has changed and I can see the working group going either one way or the other we shouldn't go halfway so that when kazanori and I are writing in you know because this section the the section on bailiwick is already reasonably long for something that was supposed that you know sort of had a throwaway definition in the early documents but we should be able cause anore and I should be able to say this definition in here is based only on the old view or this definition is based on the emerging view um so I would like as we are discussing this that people also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "choose which you know do we want to do it you know which way that we want to do that so that kazanori and I can actually say that in the document for this definition we have some other definitions in the document that were uncontroversial that had sort of a new flavor to them and such um but the working group has gotten really tied on this one so we want to say why do we have the particular definition that we're going to end up with so please don't don't forget that when you're thinking about what a you know what should the eventual definitions be thanks yeah thank you Paul thank you um thank you for the context and you need this most in the specific question to the working group um yep so let's go to the first Slide the definition of bailiwick so there here again this is the definition yeah so it's uh this is Paul referred to to the RFC 84.99 base document the definition of imbelewick of biliwick and in bailiwick in the current draft is that it specifies in domain sibling domain and the out of belly Wick and what's called an English anti-thesis not something well something different than that but um but also maybe just I think this is an important thing so we can we can decide on this or should we drop the term in Berwick as suggested and only use the well the most specifics in domain and sibling domain and the question behind that also is do we need today the term belly wig and in belly wig"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "I'd like to open the the floor here for comments Warren so this is Warren um I think that it one of the uses of this document is for people who are trying to understand other documents and sort of figure out what exactly something means when they read read a document so I don't think it's necessarily a good idea to completely drop the definition it might be worth having some sort of you know somewhat imprecise or hand wavy definition with a note that this is a term which we try not to use anymore but if you're coming across it because you're reading it on some web page or sort of blog or somebody mumbled in passing you at least have some idea of what it might mean so sort of not HDA specific formal definition but more of a like this is so you can understand what the hell is going on just a thought yeah any other suggestions ideas summarizing I think that was also during one of the ITF meetings I think indeed document the the terms we we have used in the past and uh also well uh reiterating or repeating uh Warren there might be some hand waving in accurate but this is our interpretation how it was used in the past and then come with well the more specific using the more a little bit more specific terms to make it to define the the belly wake to Paul this is actually a question for Warren um Warren were you saying that we should in this document describe what we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "thought daily was before and then hand wave about it might have changed or were you saying that we shouldn't even try to describe what it was and hand wave and say it's been used before but we're not defining it here because it has changed so much over time and there's no uh there's no single definition I'd be happy with either but I wanted to sort of hear more where you were going with that thanks um nope what what I was meaning is a um this term is not hugely well defined but if you have found it in a document or a discussion this is sort of what it means um so you know it doesn't need to be a perfectly precise definition but I like not quite Hitchhiker's Guide overview but I like you restore this term you wanted to know what it probably meant um it's hard to Define but you know here are some pointers advice Etc to sort of grok the general meaning um with maybe a note that we you know assuming that that's the working group consensus a note that we try to avoid it in the future um basically sort of a helpful thing for people who are trying to understand what the hell this whole DNS thing actually is so they can read it and go oh okay I understand this definition isn't perfect but at least I now have some vague understanding so the sentence that you know Andrew made last week kind of makes sense did that actually answer your question or did I answer something completely different that helped thank you yeah thank you uh thank you Warren uh it's I thought John Levine traced his head please go ahead"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "John I did I would agreement but make it more emphatic in This Day this year Ambiguously it's in some type of sibling zone why we don't use okay it's very helpful reality yeah okay John I I couldn't hear everything because at my receiving it was a little bit intermittent but if I can summarize your comment is that you agree with Warren's comment um that it clarifies how we use it in the past and something else maybe I forgot to mention but did other other people hear John correctly because I about half was missing of my on my end so John was saying okay try to find it now so we don't Define dailywick then is what you're saying yeah yeah so I yeah okay I think yeah I think we summarized John's comment correctly don't Define don't try to Define it now indeed yeah I think that's also yeah back to Paul yeah okay yeah I was just about to ask you to comment on this one yeah if this is good input for you yeah well it is although it is different than what Warren said so I'm hearing two things now and and um you know again we're gonna have to do this on the list but one is Warren's say that it was you know that that a you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "know it's been used this way before with this sort of definition but it might be different now um and John's which I think is easier for kazanor and I which is to not Define it at all to say it's been used but now we don't really know what it means so we're not going to try to confuse you with a definition um there might be a space between those two that says it's been used in the past in the area of where do these records live and which records are we talking about yeah but we don't really know that anymore without going into why because if we go into y then it's going to look like you know oh what about these other records and you know quite frankly two years ago we didn't have svcb and so the people are like that should be glue or that should be you know part of bailiwick that didn't even exist so I'm I'm fine with either of those like I say it'll be easier for cousin orioni if we don't even have to do a half definition um but maybe a half definition is okay the shorter the better so okay Jim I saw your hand raised yeah thanks Daniel I came at the Grievous vote Paul's just said um if the sense of the this particular session is we're going to drop the term in bailamic I think we have to have something in the document that explicitly says we have chosen not to Define this term in this definitions document and give the rationale why we've chosen not to give that definition that seems to me the mental way which kind of fits between the two proposals I've been discussing earlier today it seems very strange to me that we would have a definitions document that was not mentioned in bailiwick at all in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "this office is we don't want to think it's appropriate to find this in modern DNS terminology yeah indeed uh um Tim please thank you um yes Jim and I think that's pretty much what Warren was saying um we can take it out of the the more stricter definition is what we could do and then make a note that this is a historical thing and it's a very ambiguous term yes we would not drop it but we would we would not try to Define it more more strictly I believe is what the end result would be thank you yeah I was also interpreting the same way as Tim but yeah um Warren and Tim are still uh well if you want to Mike Warren first and then Jim so thank you yeah I mean I think some of it comes down to what we think the purpose of the document is and is it strictly a when I'm writing an RFC or draft or whatever and I want to be able to refer to terms I can just say you know this document uses the term in bailiwick you know as an example as defined in blah blah blah or do we want it to also be a um I'd like to understand this DNS thing more and I come across a set of terms I don't really understand what they mean I personally think that the you know and that can also then be used for the first purpose as well I personally think it would be really useful to have a means for sort of newcomers Etc to be able to look somewhere and understand what terms mean but I think that's also because I would still really like us to have a Hitchhiker's Guide to the DNS type document which I understand we're unlikely to have because it's a monster big undertaking um but I think also often a lot less"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "formal than others I think you know document should be um friendly and approachable and that's not always the best answer okay thank you um so back to Paul for this slide um do you still have questions through the working group um I'm sort of assuming that the questions for the working grouper to come from the chairs you know since you're the ones who have to yeah okay no yeah so so given the uh what kazunori and I ask that's much more difficult than uh you determining consensus on what you ask so yeah I think I think we know certainly for here what the parameters are but I would like those questions to come from y'all um just so that you'll be able to interpret the answers better yeah and cousin Ori please jump in if you disagree with me on any of this how it goes into the document stuff I'm I'm sort of trying to make our lives easier um and I know that means shifting this on the chair but sort of once you get into consensus references in my mind that's where the chair step is so and we become more editors not authors yeah okay so so so Tim so sorry first team and then I try to summarize but maybe Tim hasn't yes always try to summarize so it sounds like um the question We'll be asking is we'll pull this more formal definition of bailiwick out and you would write some uh text about it being a historical term that's a bit ambiguous correct"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "you get to ask the question so don't ask me if it's correct you know that this is this is among the chairs of how the question should go I just want to make sure that I'm hearing the right stuff that's all yeah yeah yeah but definitely that you feel that you'll be able to get consensus back okay okay clear so this is also the the question I is also thanked him so so um just before I go further managing expectations so the thing is that we this question will be sent to the mailing list Paul is that correct so maybe I'm a little bit fuzzy here sorry if I'm too busy but just for clarity yeah yeah any consensus call has to go to the list excellent okay yeah thanks okay we go to the next slide um the scope of views of bailiwick has been also on the mailing list of discussion um is it strictly yeah it's a strict use of uh to resolve well to get well to resolve a name to get to the name service so these are the quads are the a or the quad a resource record types or do we also consider what is necessary here for DNS ACC validation so dinisec RR types or svcb uh what does the working group think so Paul this directly goes back to the the question of old versus current um yeah I would hope that there'll be a separate consensus call for do we want to do old versus current uh yeah because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "if if it does go and and I have a preference for us not doing this at all because if it goes towards current then it's always going to have to be in the future as well uh again we we didn't predict svcb but DNS SEC is a very interesting question is a validating resolver needs some things for DNS resolution and a you know going to Warren's question of well what would somebody who sees the term bailiwick think you know need to know when they are reading it this calls into question which document when was the document that is using the term baileywick written um so I would hope we could sidestep all of this um by saying it's you know by saying both it's a historic term but it's also a historic term uh that changed over time without describing how it changed over time because some people would say well DNS SEC is not needed but svcb is because that's how like literally these days half of the addresses for websites are being discovered even though we don't even have an RFC yet so my preference would be um for us to do less here but again because Nori and I will do whatever working group comes to consensus on right thank you Paul uh Dwayne please go ahead you're unmuted but can't hear you yet"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "okay maybe I'll look to okay drain will use chat and wait for a minute the question is okay is this slide yes Dwayne really about the use of glue yeah um looking at the definitions yes I think there's a thing about strict use of glue yeah that's true yeah yeah you're right that's correct um I have a question for Dwayne though if that's okay um cousin already had said in the chat I kind of agree with him that some of these terms um that especially baileywick and in domain um or needed for the glues on optional draft and I'd like you know like to hear what the authors have to say on that okay foreign definitions yes exactly yes they would be defined here and we should find we should make sure that we find stuff that you need here um and Mr cousin already said Valerie Rick in domain and sibling are necessary for your draft I believe he is correct yep okay okay thank you maybe okay so we go actually to the next slide so maybe this well okay please pull you first go ahead so if we are needing that if these"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "definitions are going to be feeding directly into the glue is not optional draft so remember this document is sort of defining things helping people read and such glue is not optional is a specification for um how resolvers and authoritative servers are going to work therefore to me in my mind that takes precedence over our hand waving thus Dwayne if you want um definitions for your document in 84.99 bits I would very much want to make sure that during the consensus discussion from the chairs that you specify what what level of definition is needed for your document because I I agree would be best if you didn't to find it in your document um but if that puts the onus on us to Define it we'd better get it right for your document does that make sense yes absolutely Paul yeah and I thought Dwayne had dropped one of those um but this especially the in domain one but I yep so uh the referral so the referral was dropped correct and uh uh well I got I'm jumping to the next slide sorry so the I think from revision three to four I'm not sure that that's the correct or two to three the it's used now uh referral has been dropped to glue for in domain slash uh sibling domain name server yeah yeah you're gonna try doing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:07",
    "text": "because on the mailing list it was okay yeah okay you just had your hand weights raised I was okay um so okay um I yeah going back to these slides that might be indeed a little bit also well here's the Billy big and glue discussion going uh uh well falls together um so maybe it's better to go to the next slide and it gives the answers also to the questions raised here if nobody objects no okay so the definition of glue I took this from uh the mailing list from from from Dwayne so there was uh from uh quite a number of people agreements with small Amendment amendments so small changes how you you should mention this also but agree with the definition and there was a follow-up discussion between well what's exactly necessary for resolution to proceed if it's useful and that also comes back to the previous discussion we had on uh is it strictly on uh well the the a records uh a record types or additional information but I I inter interpreted the first one a little bit broader than this one so this that's why I made two different slides but [Music] um so first of all is I think the second bullet point is to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "run for discussion here um how strict or do we want to have the definition of glue so the necessary one or the more modern interpretation useful and that and then also it includes maybe other resource record types than a and chord A um so not completely repeating the discussion so it is all definition and maybe the modern or the new definition uh discussion um again here who wants to speak up has something to add on this slide or discuss or disagree Tim yeah so um I believe if we go for the broader definition we'll have to do some clarifying text with 2181. um that seems to be the the bigger piece in the discussion there about the glue records um which is okay because I this document can update older documents and that's happened in the past so um we'll just want to sort of think that through um and be like it'd be great to hear from folks what they think one way or the other okay looking at the chat for a moment okay yeah okay um sorry uh Paul please go ahead so instead of updating 2181 we could also do the uh this is not you know I'm more hesitant to call glue a historic term but we could we could say the definition of glue has changed over time as well and um it I I know this is this is hard but I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "think that it is you know going back to Warren's desire that and and this is the same desire that we've had since the beginning of that this document should be useful to readers who are not currently like who are seeing something about the DNS that they don't understand and they remember that there's this terminology document them coming and us saying here is what glue meant you know in the Paleolithic Era and it might not mean that to everybody now to me would be better than actually updating 2181 you know to say other people you know because I think it is safe to say uh you know we don't have Mark Andrews on the call but I think it's safe to say uh there you know there is disagreement currently you know because and I'm I I hate to speak for Mark especially because we disagree on lots of things but I'm using Mark as an archetype of always go to the original definitions I mean I could say the same thing about Paul Dixie as well and um there are plenty of developers who would say no we have to move with the time it's no longer 1989. um so I think we can say something like that without updating 2181 um but it might take a few rounds on the list but again there there would need to be consensus on how we would do that as well and again this specifically goes much more uh towards the glue is not optional document which again is specifying how things should act it needs to know what things need to be emitted in you know when because glue is not optional so that definition will have a very strong effect on this new document which again in my mind is somewhat more important than 84.99 bits you know because it is saying how things should act yeah so okay let's check"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "so it's unfortunate Dwayne can't speak um just give it a try doing Jack yeah okay I can hear you yeah um yeah so this was a long time ago and I'm trying to remember a lot of this discussion that happened and I'm glad you I went through and um you know looked at the old messages but um you know one thing Paul touched on I think is important um this definition doesn't say which RR types are considered blue but that might be something that we would need you know there might need to be like a a registry or something like that because if if you go with the fraud definition and these other R types um become considered to be glue then it does affect uh you know how name servers would behave given the group not optional draft and it could you know it could affect things like responses so um you know my my inclination is to is to proceed with the narrower different definition for now because at this point we really only do have the two you know a and quad a records that that are treated as glue and tell such a time that there are other record types that should be treated as glue um we shouldn't I don't think we should have the broader definition just yet okay thank you thank you Dwayne yeah and I was thinking well we have to kind of uh the the historical or the historic uh definition of glue and the two more specific definitions as you use that also in the drafts clue is not optional the glue for in domain and the glue for a sibling domain name surface"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "but that won't solve the problem here you rather sorry so it's better to have well the also the historical uh interpretation to be strict on a quote a um it's a little bit maybe the same discussion as we had for the in berrywick but what do we want to do for the future so so I have one suggestion from Dwayne let's stick to the for now on the more strict interpretation okay uh and for the for the future if if we need a broader definition we also need a registry to specify these resource types resource record type sorry is it the correct summary summary yes I think that's that is correct and Governor put something in chat about um I believe he's been looking at drains draft where he says in Domingo is necessary sibling glue is optional and out of daily recollution should be ignored um yeah and I believe that's along the lines of the definitions yeah a Dwayne please if you have something to eat yeah um yeah your your summary matches my uh what I intended as well I do think though that um we should be clear because I I think um we might be talking about two slightly separate things here you know one of them being what is the list of RR types that are glue um the other being um should this definition use the word necessary or useful I I think those are subtly different because um uh you know for example like like um my cousin already was just saying um sipping glue is still glue but it's not strictly necessary it's more it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "falls more into the useful side so maybe we want to have the discussion about necessary versus useful with the group yep and I and I think the proponent of the the person who really was in favor of um I forget which one I suggested original I think I suggested useful and maybe somebody else suggested necessary yeah you were necessary I think he's not here today yeah no uh yeah it was I did reread the mail threat so uh the original uh definition came with necessary and bench watch proposed useful for the little bit broader definition yeah to include also for example well other resource record types or not no no sorry not all other but also for a broader interpretation what might be useful uh in the resolution process and not strictly necessary yeah it's correct this was not about resource record types yeah you were correct um so yeah and I think well maybe someone else would speak up now about uh the the not about the resource record type but about strictness of uh what's the necessary first is useful discussion on the mailing list I think John Levine also made some comments in an earlier threat about two options and I think that was a little bit similar discussion about uh how broad this was let's go to the mailing um I know I think this is Tim I think um yeah Dwayne used the term necessary and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "think many folks see something like service B records becoming blue in the future but we're not there yet right and we haven't actually hashed all that out and that's going to take some time and and I feel probably the definition and we'll this will be one of those questions is the definition will probably initially now necessary um Forward Thinking for useful yeah see what's been okay yeah so for us it's now um we need to forward this question to the mailing list um we have sufficient input from a working group now question uh I think so I think we have people so I'm a little bit concerned about what Tim just put in the comments uh now that's sweet DB in the future um I if we believe that and we might I mean I'm not saying it's not true but if we believe that the wording in this document is going to be a little bit dicey so um I'm okay with us saying that but I would want um I would want some good wording going to the working group before because I'm pretty sure there is not going to be consensus in the working group or not easy consensus there might be consensus"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "I mean sometimes we hold hands but um I don't think there will be easy consensus on here's a definition and here's how it's gonna here's how it might change in the future um so either we say things have been added in some people's mind or something like that but saying this definition is going to change um I think makes it hard for us to write 84.99 bits but you'll you know the working Group shares might come up with some good words that the working group can agree on that I I I'm not saying that it will change I'm just you know I'm leaving my I'm leaving myself open right I'm in that regard and to sort of you know maybe we'll get a really good excellent you know reasoning why we should do that sort of thing yeah um I gotta say I agree with Paul um [Music] obviously it's up to the working group um but I think that we're we're we've already made 84.99 deliberately a work in progress and we have set the precedent that we'll update it as needed so I think that's all we all we really need to say about the future and I think further speculation will just end up confusing people but that's just you know no hats that's a personal opinion um thank you Dwayne please go ahead I'm struggling a little bit with um the idea that we need to get this definition exactly right because I I mean I think necessary versus useful here is a very subtle distinction and I'm not sure it matters a lot in terms of the definition what really matters is how the protocol behaves and you know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "whether or not a particular Aura type is considered glue or not and that's you know that's something that can only happen further down the road as new RR types become uh better defined or their use is better specified okay yes I fully agree with you yeah okay thank you um there's some homework for uh for the Deans of chairs here to to formulate the correct questions to the working group but it's I think it's clear um then I think one more slide I think slides we have yeah the definition of sibling glue well yeah there have been also of course the it's more more broader definition probably also in the other uh sorry in blue not optional uh draft um actually this is just so well this is wording from from Tony but I think the discussion we just had about necessary versus useful interpretation I think it's it's very similar to the the discussion we just had as for in domain glue Paul please speak up clear we don't actually Define sibling glue we Define sibling domain name yeah yeah and it's true in a quick look that I'm doing on Google is not optional I believe that they also so uh in glue is not optional section 2.2 is glue or sibling domain names um that may make this discussion a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "little bit easier I'm not sure uh Dwayne would would be able to uh to talk more about that Clues on options I think we're at a point now where we very carefully use the phrase you know glue for sibling domain name server and of course so um yeah calling it sibling glue is just kind of a shortcut but it's it's bad uh it's bad practice okay yeah okay yeah so okay so this concludes so this yeah okay this concludes so this is a we don't use this definition and it's indeed a glue for a sibling domain name surface okay make some notes here um then this concludes a slide set in all the discussion points um our first question to Paul and then later to the working group if there are any other things to discuss related to the RFC 84.99 oh no no you're fine okay we're good I mean look once we have a working group last call people are going to pick out things from other parts but unless kazanori speaks up um I believe we are at top of the list that is we've been keeping little notes in the document and we have no little notes at the moment hmm uh kazanori please correct me if I'm wrong and Paul if I may ask a question of you two um um in sort of the actions that were sort of the chairs were gonna we're gonna put"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "together is um we'll do some text or consensus around the baileywork discussion making that a more historical thing but we'll leave the in domain sibling domain um definitions yeah as the more sort of currently formal side of things but we'll just drop the in bailiwick part yeah or make it historic yes it's not a question that is what I've got written down and if that seems totally off base someone should just speak up and say so um and again it's not up for kazanori and I to uh be deciding that it would really be once you bring it to the working group and get a consensus call um and again the best the best Detectors of this will probably be the long list of authors on glue is not optional so you might even rope them in to make sure that that they agree that once you're done with the consensus call that they're good foreign exclusive terms perfect yeah okay just yeah um okay thank you to the working group to the participants any comments things you think we missed or uh well we missed discussing we didn't discuss yet no okay thank you captured a bunch of this in the minutes and I'm going to grab all the chat comments as well because that stuff is really that's going to be really useful in the minutes as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "um for those of us who don't like talking um so thank you cousin already for keeping up on that um so uh perfect and so we've got some work to do this afternoon at least I do um I'll start working on that and then we'll we'll kick it up we'll talk tomorrow yep excellent um so yeah we spent more than well 50 we spent 55 minutes on this topic so that's good so we and we need it this time um it's close to the hour I think we should well it's a little bit up to the working group The participants if do people feel do people have time for informal chat on alt TLD for clarification of issues ETC no I think it's too short time and people yeah um keep in mind that we've got a draft message from the chairs to go to the mailing list yeah in the near future frankly um should have gone while I was busy being childaged instead but um that will be appearing on the list and one of the things we're going to have to try to do is make sure that we don't continue to revisit things we know we can't get consensus on and see what we can carve out that will be useful to pursue so watch for that and um I but I agree there's there's not really time for it at the moment yeah thank you you're right get up in the near future yeah okay then I will close the session thank you all for your time for your input your participation you really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "really appreciate it and uh yeah you can go forward with uh with the RFC 84 99base and also with the uh glue not optional drive so that's it's a good refill for uh for today thank you very much and uh well on the mailing list or and hopefully see you uh either remote or in person in in London for the ITF in November thank you thanks guys"
  }
]
