[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "smart endnotes you look at Gillian\u0027s response responsibilities what we do need to make it working we have 17 rats have you done anything yes I would never I know the idea so she did the the cruise trip without a ticket my own fault anyone elses it seems they kept food in order to get maximum foots of pepper I\u0027ve never listened to yes you did he listens to nice you skip ego often debate you don\u0027t need me to tell you how to defeat skilled workers yeah you\u0027ve done it I really deserve it so you know the debates so by studying these moves become a bigger opening for some of the meetings and once they give ya once they give you yet the notes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:15",
    "text": "how would you smart pretty okay [Music] so all right am i talking in the middle of box hit them yours Margaret is the big one the IQ the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:17",
    "text": "matricis review was awesome but Wow yeah Aliyah side note got the tickets reserved that\u0027s fine it doesn\u0027t sound like there\u0027s a problem adding I just made sure we got the ones you want okay you let me start with this I love this screen it\u0027s like totally paused that\u0027s fine that\u0027s its height it\u0027s just you know oh the other slight all the other screens have been better than this room yeah welcome trill oh you\u0027re in the right place trill good good umm I don\u0027t know your name so I\u0027m sue you you\u0027re welcome to sit up front you\u0027re welcome to sit in back but this is a discussion so um you can do whatever you want I\u0027m very flexible we should go back to the note well yeah yeah that\u0027s good okay this is a note well this is a new note well just in case you didn\u0027t know so you should read it there is more included and I think that\u0027s the best thing I can say we\u0027ve got it in the notes anyone who want to ask any questions about it we\u0027ll just go in good thing way I\u0027m glad you\u0027re here Donald sent a message to the list you should look at it because we\u0027ll come back to you okay so after the trill note well go ahead okay 17th we are we are trying to get everybody\u0027s documents through trill in the next six months so I need your help we\u0027re going to have we\u0027re gonna ask for reviews Donald will help me and John and I will ask for review so if you\u0027d like your documents to go through help everybody else\u0027s please it\u0027s gonna take time do you want to say something brilliant yeah oh yeah let\u0027s yeah so one thing that says reviews really help and also being extremely proactive as authors usually when I do an ad you review if you reply back and get it fixed up really quickly I can schedule it had it last call and on the teletype iesg tell a chat is planned if you\u0027re not responsive "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:17",
    "text": "it could take a lot longer and we\u0027re trying to get these things all done while I\u0027m still AJ thank you okay the other thing is as Feng lei experienced you must read the new reviewers like the ARP optimization we fixed one set of reviewers then we got a new set because we got a new is G you have to read the reviews and you have to answer them if you have problems Donald and I will help you write texts it isn\u0027t is a group thing right you know if you need help ask mostly what we\u0027re doing is I\u0027m sending you to Donald for rewrite because I usually am doing the reviews along with John so if I tell you that I\u0027ll give you my own review but Donald has graciously offered to help with rewrites and you\u0027ve experienced that before you\u0027re gonna have to help us with the review and last call when I do the last call there\u0027ll be questions so that we indicated that there\u0027s interest okay so let\u0027s go through the documents we\u0027re gonna work on there is excuse me for my phone this morning it needed to be very loud so we\u0027ve gotten thanks to Aaliyah and Donald and all your review we got to RFC\u0027s through we\u0027ve got one in our fcq but now we\u0027re going to talk about the draft up optimization and the draft MTU because some things come back to us for review go ahead then there are some there\u0027s a draft in publications but needs to change because the LEAs got some really good comments now we have drafts past the working group last call but we had significant comments late now there\u0027s a good reason for this and that Ally if corrected I think is a politically correct way the review process in the routing area trill usually gets at least around QA review it gets an Operations review and make it a security review we weren\u0027t getting them quickly all and thrill over IP got a transport review if these reviews get behind and that\u0027s my job is to press the button and Donnell and I will track it it will happen what happened with 12 over IP drill p2 and pbft and resilient Rios if we get the comments late then we have to resolve it right and you\u0027re sort of like where was this draft so we\u0027re gonna try to really increase the cycle time by taking the input and then trying to track you down to get the response again we\u0027ve got 17 drafts to get through the is G yes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:19",
    "text": "they\u0027ll love us after a while so drill over IP we\u0027re gonna discuss we don\u0027t have it on the agenda but same way if we get a chance we\u0027re going to talk about smart end notes okay drill ARP is on the agenda we don\u0027t have trill p2 MP on the agenda do we I think we\u0027re good on that one and I think trill and the resilient real trees is fine I\u0027m being yeah yep we\u0027re both good on that Donald and I are trying to help that go ahead for the next status that\u0027s it okay we\u0027re in working group last call and we\u0027ve left the working group last call to have a discussion on the changes same way the EC and support I haven\u0027t seen any crumbs with and the directory assisted in caps we got some private reviews that we\u0027ll call it so we\u0027re going to leave those in reviews to see if we can clean it up rapidly if not and you don\u0027t fix it rapidly then we\u0027ve got to stop and do another two-week last fall I really want to try to keep pushing it we have two calls for adoption that we talked about last time which is the group King and the Archaea parent selection now for Donald as the main author for Rakesh yep Rakesh good I am if you go over catch her I\u0027m sorry I should have said Rama instead of Rakesh my apologies wrong Kumar when we get this adopted this has to go fast through the process because it\u0027s just being about that donal already got warned so what you\u0027re going to get is you\u0027re going to get an immediate set of QA reviews once we adopt it as far as I can tell this one\u0027s good for adoption but just to warn everybody I am before as a chair I\u0027m pulling this in I\u0027m warning everybody we\u0027re on the last six months of all these documents we\u0027re trying to get all the documents through because a lot of our workers through and into product and then we\u0027re trying to wrap up all the documentation again the reason why we have all this back load is we weren\u0027t getting QA reviews now we thanks to alia we fixed that process I\u0027m going to depend on you to help me get it through okay next all of these other drafts you notice a despot Rev DCI we need to know if there\u0027s real usage for DCI or whether it\u0027s going away if it\u0027s some some of the guys said the use case in the need it might be going away again some of these "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:19",
    "text": "use cases come out of India and some of their networks are changing the topology the multi SiC single level and unique multi level nicknames now focus on those ones mainly on sand and he\u0027s out these two you may be receiving on the single and unique some comments from Donald I don\u0027t know I met early this week and walked through all the documents please pay attention when we go through the revision because we\u0027ll do one more revision into working group last call I don\u0027t think there\u0027s much technically but Donald alive the drafts needed a little bit of fixing yep so that one we\u0027re probably just gonna drop one off the list oh yeah trill yang om I have a lot to say on so I\u0027ll put that on but we\u0027re caught there between the revised data stores um I mean we ease up you know if the trill yang is been implemented in Huawei I talked to Deepak about Cisco you know these implemented the reason is the yang debate we\u0027ve got the revised data store anything that I do I\u0027m having to do like I did with the BGP stuff I have to if it\u0027s out there I need to publish what\u0027s there and then I need to move at the same time to the revise Davis North that\u0027s why I need to know if somebody\u0027s got it out there I will put the revised draft out with the BGP mem for admin with the BGP yang modelled there were 15 people and I know that cisco has the yang in the OEM and so I\u0027m tending to put it out there but I just need to know if there\u0027s more than one okay so you don\u0027t have to answer on list unless you I\u0027m not the young people but I\u0027d like to go back to check whether it if you would do that that would be very helpful um and I\u0027ll check with Cisco to see if they\u0027re still Des Moines East the Ming also this young yeah oh um who is the main officer Deepak who is the main author of statist yeah Deepak\u0027s okay oh okay okay okay it\u0027s just different I think they say this time in the end okay go ahead Donnell to the next one okay those are all the rest of our drafts there\u0027s our C\u0027s Thank You Donald yes so we\u0027ve completed the milestones and we\u0027re doing well on that let\u0027s go to the next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:20",
    "text": "one we have overdue ones but again those are based on the reviews that we didn\u0027t get into late so we\u0027re gonna try to focus on trill over IP focus on T multi-level and the our bridge stuff so I think we\u0027ve got drafts for everything and we\u0027ll go from there okay I\u0027m comin broken I don\u0027t have anything to present I just wanted to ask if the draft is ready and we can advance it I just wanted to ask if the draft the parent selection draft is ready and we can advance it as a adopt it in the okay the only thing the only reason I wanted to talk about in the working group is to let everybody know it\u0027s got a fast turn and we\u0027re good okay now comes our real substantive Margaret if you help us go through this so I\u0027m gonna talk about trill over IP next we\u0027ll do a very brief is there anybody here who hasn\u0027t already seen the presentation on what trill over IP is about anybody has not seen that presentation already all right we will go through it quickly but I think a lot of people already know that then we\u0027ll talk about where we are on it and what all the outstanding issues are with the document right now next so the point of trill over IP is to treat an IP network as a leak as a link connecting trill switch ports thus providing a method to connect trill sites into a single trill campus on there\u0027s two scenarios described in the draft one of them is the remote office scenario that would be I have a big drill site I have a remote office that runs trill and I use trill over IP to turn that all into one big trill campus there\u0027s also the IP backbone scenario which is that say I have a trill network on each floor of my building or in each building of a campus and then I have a big IP backbone and I run trill over IP over that backbone to connect all those floors or buildings the draft specifies the packet format and the security it tries to cover transport considerations but we\u0027ll find when we bring up the issues that we missed some of them MTU fat flows quality of service and middle boxes next the existing draft specifies three "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:20",
    "text": "formats for trill and it\u0027s extensible so that there can be more formats in the future if they\u0027re needed there are this is trying to give us a sense of what they are on the wire there\u0027s trill encapsulated in UDP over the link there\u0027s trill encapsulated in Ethernet in VX LAN and UDP over the link and there\u0027s trill encapsulated in TCP over the link those are the three formats that are defined next page yeah that allowed them to use existing hardware I think with with drill over IP we uh we started this in well we started this before October of 2011 that\u0027s when the first draft was posted the first working graph group draft was in 2014 we passed working group last call in 2017 but we\u0027ve gotten a bunch of comments and there was a transport area Directorate review on June 15th of 2017 if you wanted to see the message you can find it there but we\u0027re gonna bring out the issues during this presentation so next slide are the current outstanding comments on the draft are about and I\u0027m gonna go into each of these in more detail but they\u0027re about zero checksum explicit congestion notification quality of service the tcp transport that i mentioned the third of those three formats fragmentation congestion control and that okay so next slide in order to run at line speed and be efficient people are gonna want to run trill over IP without IP header checksums this is allowed now even in ipv4 for RFC 69 36 and it\u0027s allowed when there\u0027s gonna be IP inside the tunnel so you actually don\u0027t need the external checksum to find out if the correct end destinations like the correct end destination was met and so we need to make the draft clearer about and we mentioned it in the draft that we could use zero check sums but we need to make it clearer about when drill over IP meets the conditions for our C 69 36 and when it doesn\u0027t that was the feedback so we\u0027re gonna make a change to make that clear I mean I guess it could be conceived of as a textual as a technical change if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:20",
    "text": "someone had turned off checksums in a case where they shouldn\u0027t have but it it\u0027s mostly a clarification because I don\u0027t think that would that people would probably have done that congestion control the current draft has a good start uncongested control it doesn\u0027t just ignore the topic among other things but there are a couple of things that we need to do we look at what the effect is of using serial unicast instead of multicast on congestion and what that is is that normally you multicast okay and you multicast on a link and it goes everywhere I\u0027m in some cases when either link doesn\u0027t support multicast or you have some other reason to do so you serialize multicast so you send a message to every one of the other trill nodes on the link that obviously is going to create more traffic and we need to at least write text that explains the impact and I suppose in doing that we might find there\u0027s a problem but I don\u0027t anticipate that I just think we\u0027re gonna just this is about making the transport considerations text correct more than it is about the protocol itself the other thing is that we always have a problem in the IETF with anything that tunnels drill over IP is effectively tunneling right we\u0027re tunneling tril in IP and whenever we tunnel things we get the question how do we know that the traffic inside the tunnel is congestion control there\u0027s a rule in the IETF that anything that runs over IP needs to provide congestion control okay TCP provides congestion control MMP TCP provides congestion control quic provides congestion control HTTP because it\u0027s over TCP does but UDP does not and applications running above UDP arp required to provide it okay like like all the ietf applications running above UDP there are two cases where we can run into traffic that isn\u0027t congestion controlled okay that\u0027s um UDP applications developed by someone else where they didn\u0027t bother to do congestion control or non IP traffic and so this has come up in a lot of tunneling situations before the question is how can we tell if it is congestion controlled and typically in the IETF we\u0027ve kind of waved our hands and said well if it\u0027s IP it\u0027s all congestion controlled even though we know that isn\u0027t entirely true okay and the answer is you can\u0027t necessarily tell and I don\u0027t know we\u0027ll have to figure out exactly what to say about this in the spec right because you really can\u0027t tell if a UDP application you know nothing about has congestion control I mean that you\u0027d have to be like a mind reader I mean so it\u0027s unclear um I think we\u0027ll "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:20",
    "text": "just have to say that\u0027s a risk or something but the right but it because we\u0027re tunneling okay if that\u0027s just on your local link it\u0027s okay right because well it\u0027s not okay but you\u0027re gonna figure it out you\u0027re gonna be able to figure out what node is doing it you\u0027re gonna be able to walk into their office but when you start putting stuff in a tunnel and sending it across the internet then you\u0027re possibly congesting the Internet not just your own office and so it is you know a reasonable question to ask I think if we look at the wording in the CAF web draft for instance we had basically broken apart and an access point and you could put it across an internet right it\u0027s controlling provisioning of wireless access points okay and it breaks an AP into two parts it allows an IP tunnel between them and we had to deal with the same issue and I think we should go look at what the wording was in that draft and see if it\u0027s still considered sufficient I I don\u0027t know yeah I mean that issue originally came from Dave Borman in kallab and it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s a potential real issue but it\u0027s unclear what the right thing is to do about it so we\u0027ll have to figure that out yeah I mean between vacations and stuff we haven\u0027t resolved all these issues since June 15th all right so we\u0027re gonna resolve them hopefully in the next month or so yeah yeah I mean it\u0027s unlikely that aspect change is gonna come out of this because it\u0027s not like we\u0027re going to suddenly divine a way to tell if the traffic is congestion controlled so you know we atlas so this is one of the documents where we talked about a while ago and it\u0027s not sorry we are doing it in the trail working group because there\u0027s the expertise here because it will get the review even though it\u0027s slightly out of Charter and that\u0027s fine but and I would much prefer to see it done but if it becomes necessary for it to be ad sponsored due to time constraints I don\u0027t that\u0027s an alternative but please continue there you can consider yourself to have the same degree of pressure trying to finish in the next six months well we really we really want to finish and most of these "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:21",
    "text": "are although in some cases they\u0027re gonna require some working out they\u0027re not really spec changes they\u0027re they\u0027re like doing your homework checking that things are act that there is no real concern and documenting that I understand next side ECM drool over IP is a tunneling protocol as I just said and there\u0027s specific restrictions or rules guidance I don\u0027t know what you would call it in RC 6040 for what tunneling protocols are supposed to do with ECM and I only found out about that like on June I don\u0027t know eighteenth or something when I read this man and it\u0027s a real thing I mean it\u0027s a fairly recent RFC we say nothing about it we need to actually say and and in this case it is a spec change because we need to do what RFC 60-40 says we\u0027re supposed to do it\u0027s a little trickier that then just follow the RC 6040 so explain the plan such as it is so a trill over IP link is an IP tile it should support ECM when the trill campus supports ECM the trill over IP header should be easy and marked based on EC and marking in the trill header of the packet being transport those pictures for this so you don\u0027t have to just get this the first time packet being transported with IP if ecn is not supported in the trill campus it does not seem worth while to dig past the trill layer to get ecn from into the inner IP traffic so we\u0027re gonna propose this next slide if you got in our bridge and some IP routers because this is your tunnel the green line to another our bridge so you\u0027re running trill over IP in this middle green line right and over here on the sending our bridge the the ingress of the tunnel for this particular packet you have a link header and a trill header and that trill header has a vcn mark in it and payload then we will copy the ecn mark from that trill header into the outer IP header so that ECM can be tracked across the tunnel and then we will combine them back into the trill header ecn mark okay because while it\u0027s pasta passing through the IP routers if there\u0027s congestion they\u0027re not going to put the ECM mark in the trill header to them that\u0027s just payload they\u0027re gonna put it in the IP header the outer IP header right so we want to recombine them so that if either of them is showing congestion we show congestion okay that way the further traffic can act on you know that the destination whatever in the other side of the trail campus can act on that congestion now next slide if the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:28",
    "text": "original our bridge is doing trill and inside the the trill header the IP header has ecn marks and the ECM mark can just be I support ACN or it can be that there is congestion I don\u0027t remember what the two codes are for that but they\u0027re actually three codes two of them are I support ECM and one of lutely has there\u0027s congestion but but that\u0027s just for historical reasons if the IP payload there has a nice en mark okay we never parse into that IP payload they\u0027re like some of the hardware that supports trill doesn\u0027t like look at that IP payload at all to decide what to do with this packet it\u0027s looking at the trill header so we\u0027re proposing and we will see if this is acceptable that in that case we would not take that in or ecn mark and copy it into the outer IP header and then copy it back into the payload when we get to the other side because we suspect that that\u0027s going to be a very costly thing to do for trill hardware and we don\u0027t think it\u0027s gonna be worth doing like it might be one of those cases where you write a spec this is to do something and nobody does it right and so we need to talk to the transport area and see if they can live with that that level of support for EC yet and he said it was okay so probably it\u0027ll be okay because Bob Briscoes the one who who wrote RFC 6040 or whatever it was so so anyway so that\u0027s our proposed fix Frisian I think we\u0027d like probably to know if anybody here has any legally strong thoughts about that one way or the other okay now you can hear me better okay does everyone guys this is a real interactive because we\u0027re trying to get the specs through anybody have questions about the problem okay any please go wrong tomorrow Brooke I\u0027m sorry could you speak in the mic there\u0027s much more noise than you would think right here and so if you don\u0027t speak into the mic I can\u0027t hear you so for the case we\u0027re into the mic okay for the case where you have chill control plane frames like this does not apply or control plane is the is is stuff that\u0027s all one hop stuff it doesn\u0027t reply yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:31",
    "text": "so any other comments or questions on this particular topic well next slide quality-of-service trill uses well primarily uses a three bit priority field for quality of service there\u0027s also a one bit drop eligibility indicator um IP uses a 6-bit dscp field this is a common that\u0027s a differentiated services code point I think I I don\u0027t like to use acronyms without saying what they are trill over IP provides a mapping from trill QoS so the sort of four bits to the dscp bit that mapping needs to be reviewed based on the latest are sees apparently we may not have gotten it entirely right based on the latest are sees or maybe we\u0027ve been overtaken by events there\u0027s a there\u0027s a Deborah narrative coming up with a new dscp explicitly for low effort service which might be appropriate in one case but also we need to say in our draft now this is kind of this is one of these things I sometimes object to in the ITF actually we\u0027re gonna say in a draft that no one who is running this service is likely to read that they should be aware that if they use troll over IP the actual QoS they get over the Internet may be different than the kind of QoS they get over trip but we will say that because people want us to a typing the sentence takes less time then arguing with them sometimes things that seem obvious to us not as obvious to the readers of the documents after you\u0027ve been I reminded so I just when I first took electrical engineer you know like magnetism stuff my TA claimed that if you just looked at the charge distribution you could totally see what the field lines were and by the end of the class we got there I think there\u0027s a lot of IETF work like that where we think all of the implications are obvious yeah but the thing is the person who\u0027s gonna be reading our spec is the one who is implementing the bit mapping all right and they should not get confused by the sentence they should do what we said okay it\u0027s a problem is in operations right in operations if you drill over IP the depending on how your routers that we don\u0027t even know the brand of interpret dscp colored points you may get different quality of service than you expect because yeah I think the problem is that some providers interpret them differently and we do say that you that you have to be able to configure this giving you a hint that if that\u0027s your "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:32",
    "text": "problem maybe what you want to do is configure the mapping to be different from what we give is the default but the other problem is that if you go through multiple providers kudos but we will say that in the spec because I appreciate that because you\u0027re good jubie\u0027s yes longer and not better but it will not hurt the spec so we will say the spec in the case of transport in a case of transport using TCP so that case where trill over IP is using TCP so it\u0027s drill over TCP / IP a separate TCP connection / provided QoS level is needed in order for the QoS stork this is because a typical one connection is going to be cached with the QoS that first presents with and so if you don\u0027t do separate connections for the separate QoS values all the traffic will get if you put it all in one TCP connection will get the same QoS and it will be whichever one the router first happened to notice and associate with this flow which is not what you want is that a that\u0027s about it to say on this so next slide TCP transport um we offer the TCP transport as one of the format options they said that they would prefer that we call it a transport when we run it in TCP instead of an encapsulation since there is no one to one mapping between tril packets and TCP packets and that is very interesting because they demanded in banana that I call it an encapsulation when we put it in mp PCP because we aren\u0027t the transport MP TCP is not from the transport every review this is from Joe touch well Joe and and Mary I probably ought to talk to each other but we will call it a transport and not an encapsulation because it\u0027s not actually each packet each trill packet isn\u0027t encapsulated in one TCP packet that isn\u0027t how it works TCP is flow based and so there won\u0027t be a one-to-one mapping and so he is correct it is not properly an encapsulation we will I need a third word for this because I need it for banana so if anyone has one please see me later we add framing with the length field so that the incoming TCP packets can be parsed and reassembled if necessary to back to the original trilogy and you have to do this over TCP because TCP does not provide any packetization so 3/4 of your packet might be in one TCP packet the other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:33",
    "text": "quarter and the first half of the next one might be in the next TCP packet and so if you don\u0027t put in some kind of length or or delineator demarcation you don\u0027t know where your original packet started and stopped so we will do that and and there apparently some things we can do to achieve better performance and we will take those on her visor and try to see what we should put in the and the draft about that so as I just said when when a tcp is used to trill packet can be split across multiple TCP packets thus the MT use end up being less than the campus-wide minimum MTU and so we need MTU discovery to extend down to small a smaller configurable limit when you\u0027re using trill over TCP / IP I\u0027m not sure I don\u0027t you wanna we have this empty you thing and if you\u0027re doing UDP or other things then you really do the this this campus-wide minimum do you do though you want the fact you want to be sure that your link-state packets get through or else i Esaias won\u0027t work okay but the problem is if you have a TCP link at least in principle everything I mean you\u0027ve configured it to calculate everything in TCP then even your control claim packets over that one link can be chopped up into a smaller TCP packet so if that link for some reason let\u0027s say it\u0027s sort of a 1500 byte MTU link but there\u0027s a bunch of other encapsulation that occurs in the middle of the link so it really pushes you down to 13-under it or 1200 then you still what you can still get everything over it so it\u0027s in fact useful to know if the MTU on this link to trill appears to be a thousand bytes that\u0027s still a useful link if you\u0027re using TCP all right as you can so so the current neck we need some wording about that it will probably still keep sort of the MTU for the reassemble trill packet the same as it is now the causality in in what we say here what we said what you just said is could be turned around right it could be that if you have a lower MTU link between your sites you should encapsulate in PCP because they\u0027ll be reassembled into the full-size packets and you don\u0027t have to write so but I mean it would allow us to support lower MTU links right so next fragmentation we shouldn\u0027t have any there are a lot of reasons why fragmentation is bad they include middleboxes where there\u0027s state "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:33",
    "text": "and they don\u0027t always make sure that the two fragments sometimes they\u0027re blocked sometimes you get issues where the two fragments don\u0027t take the same path there can be a lot of problems with fragmentation in the network there also are less efficient they you can get into these silly packets where if your MTU is like five larger than will fit every time you do something you get full-sized packet and a five byte packet and so they\u0027re inefficient within a data center use of UDP with fragmentation is generally consistent with a trill philosophy of mostly worrying about the routing messages and not worrying about the lower layer messages but TCP is actually a better way to avoid fragmentation on lower empty links and and also will then allow the fragments front like that we\u0027re gonna reassemble into full trail packets to get through Nats and firewalls next now when you need to use static bindings for that and we need to write up what you have to do in order to get trill to work over a net neighbor our bridge addresses as reported in the source IP addresses need to be mapped using the static binding into actual remote IP addresses before being listed in the is is neighbor TLD so basically we we can\u0027t count on a NAT having an Al g4 trill where it would translate these inter addresses we need to make sure we\u0027re using the correct dinner addresses across a net we generally need keepalive messages which we haven\u0027t needed in order to make sure that the NAT state stays active in if there\u0027s a long interval between trill packets we also see fragmentation and there\u0027s an interaction with security as well which is that I have I piece aqui SP packets need to be encapsulated in UDP IP to go through an ACK there is an ia IB second UDP gret RFC so we just have to cite that well I mean there\u0027s going to have to be I wouldn\u0027t say it\u0027s new technology but it is going to change implementations because there\u0027s gonna be a question as to whether they get configured to be not compatible or not or do they all run that compatible we have to define these keepalive messages and say how often to send them right I don\u0027t know she\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:44",
    "text": "asking that you use the microphone oh I\u0027m sorry John I\u0027m sorry I missed this can you hear me now okay I apologize John my question here is this sounds like this may take more work I mean I do think this would be some work but I don\u0027t think it\u0027s it\u0027s work I think it\u0027s well understood work like I think it\u0027s siting RFC\u0027s it would change implementations but I don\u0027t think it\u0027s gonna be a lot of spec work I mean as you can tell there\u0027s actually quite a few things here but any each one of them is all pretty straightforward so this significant amount of work to you know get to our milestone but and lean I\u0027d say it\u0027s always a judgement calls to whether for example we need another working group last call for a short working with Westfall or something I don\u0027t know probably okay there\u0027s some I mean I suppose there\u0027s a possibility of saying something like it doesn\u0027t work over now but that probably is not what we want to say because if we want to be able to do like the remote office scenario those might be behind a DSL link with an app right I mean you so probably we want to support it working over Nats oh yeah let\u0027s see I guess question is I agree with you on that but my question is what are the actual deployment scenarios that folks are envisioning and do they have a need for it because this does add complexity right in the IP backbone scenario we could say that there can\u0027t be in that right I mean because you completely control that right if you\u0027ve got five buildings on a campus and you want to connect them with an IP backbone you know you decide whether or not there\u0027s an that on your campus I think it\u0027s a remote office scenario that we would need the support Nats and I I don\u0027t have any real visibility into how much of the interest in trill over IP is one or the other do you donal I mean and that\u0027s our most common 4v4 right so if you have a fair amount you know depending on how much v6 your home networks are using and so on in the current graph we do talk a little bit our fragmentation and recommend using v6 because music fragments are more robust if you end up with you know it\u0027s even worse to have flaky fragments right so a nice my perspective would be really good to get feedback on the mailing list as to whether the NAT use case is critical for folks who are looking at deployment or implementation if that\u0027s something that they\u0027re targeting or if the focus "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:44",
    "text": "is more on v6 networks and such where NAT is not an issue do we know if common DSL providers actually provide on that at ipv6 offhand at this time in ITF no I think I could ask around that if we find that because it\u0027s DSL where you\u0027re stuck with an app because it\u0027s actually done by the operator and so um I could ask around and see if DSL providers adding ipv6 or not right and if not we could say our answer to NAT in the remote office space is if your ipv4 services and added use ipv6 right I mean I guess part of my question was also geographical so my understanding of where a lot of the locate regions where trill is more deployed tend to be a little more v6 centric and we\u0027ll see that over time and certainly we\u0027re focusing more towards v6 yeah but I mean I think at least we could at least ask some of the BBF guys or whatever if this is something we even have to worry about in v6 yeah I\u0027m trying for feedback yeah so next any other feedback questions comments anything just just to summarize for the chair we\u0027re going to I\u0027d like you to ask on the list for feedback on the deployment scenarios we do that okay if you do that today maybe we\u0027ll get some feedback within a week or so okay just specifically with regard to that or which scenarios they\u0027re using or just ask if the net scenario is necessary namely their deployment scenarios then give an example of the campus scenario and the own remote office scenario try to be as explicit as possible so we can get a clear definition to know whether we\u0027re gonna spend time on this I\u0027m okay I\u0027m never if I sound like a broken record we\u0027re gonna get these drafts through I\u0027m known to be very focused I mean some of this is T crossing and I dotting some of it is like the EC n is a spec change but it\u0027s like to comply with an IETF thing this net1 is the biggest change that is possibly useless so let\u0027s make sure it\u0027s useful before we do it hopefully this will be a really short presentation of a simple feature especially since we\u0027re so winding down activity in the working group this provides an escape channel whereby vendors can define their own control "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:44",
    "text": "messages uses the arbitral facility which is a way you can send control messages between our bridges or between the end stations and there are bridge that\u0027s either they\u0027re both or when they\u0027re both on the same link and there\u0027s an RFC specifying how it works and everything there\u0027s a couple examples on this slide that do make use of it so this is what they look like there\u0027s a an ether type that identifies our bure channel message and then there\u0027s like a sub channel protocol numbers like a sub protocol within our bridge channel and that is what specifies what the channel protocol specific data is you could have anything over there so the idea is very simply to let vendors extend to this by providing a way for them to define their own sorry messages and they can send their own control messages as they desire the vendors can do this in other ways and if our bridges all have IP addresses their MAC addresses are something that you can imagine other ways those actually not required and in principle and our bridge could have only a nickname they have all PPP ports that has no MAC addresses you know not very likely but it could be so anyway this was a universal method it\u0027s guaranteed to be able to communicate to an AR bridge based on the nickname or you can also send multicast to a label data label scope set so the idea is you basically pick up a vendor channel ie an affix a vendor Channel and in what was the data portal protocol specific thing we put a little vendor channel header and there could be an organizational unique identifier or a company ID I Triple E now cells company IDs cheaper than oh you eyes though you eye reserves the whole block of MAC addresses and it\u0027s 24 bits the only the CID is 48 bits but so that\u0027s much cheaper and doesn\u0027t give you any MAC addresses so it should be really a sort of a simple format thing speaks it gives this facility to vendors actually everything after the ouy or CID is really completely under the control of the vendor but there\u0027s actually an expired graft on this which has a recommended vendor sub protocol and and version for that sub protocol for the vendor and I easy way to report errors and this seems like a good idea you certainly want it don\u0027t want to have vendors have to use up multiple Oh UI is just because they want multiple vendor channel protocols they really should have a sub protocol identifier underneath arrow UI or whatever so this draft will be revived very shortly and then we could do a call for adoption based on little discussion on the mailing list that\u0027s a simple thing any questions or comment of Donald your mom "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:44",
    "text": "after you revise the draft will you make sure Indian announced after it goes to the automatic announcement will you provide to the list a description worth summation of this description will be used and how it\u0027s happening so that people can make a good decision and will option sure the only change in the existing expired draft is to add the facility where you can use a company identifier in a place of a no UI in case you\u0027re not a hardware Ethernet manufacturer you don\u0027t need to know you are right that\u0027s all I\u0027m asking is when you adopt it remind people that that\u0027s the point and then we\u0027ll go back and ask that question I\u0027m trying to emphasize how we\u0027re gonna make make progress with ok ok now comes one of the really good ones marker thank you you sound you\u0027re on the approximate station this is usually I\u0027m going to talk about this our pin and the optimization their comments we received from the ad review sorry area target 3 review an ad review so there it is it has been quite a long time already so the us we have some outstanding comments from the general review in the ops in the securities I\u0027m going to look at them one by one next page so the the general review T it\u0027s a fairly lengthy review but most of them editorial the clarification the there there is one thing we like which is a real dis disagreement is the reviewer thinks there is something which is X and I\u0027m trying to remember what is X X actually is a thing right send keys to the yeah because we suggested to use their no we suggest we we say there\u0027s sand can be used so it talks about how if if it is used how we are going to exchange the key from the end station to the edge a bridge so it\u0027s we we use the word we use a word this mechanism is out of scope in our document but the review thinks that implies that some mechanism of this to do to do the key key exchange must be existed so but they also think saying there\u0027s something is out of scope for document doesn\u0027t I anything about whether this mechanism exists or does not exists so that\u0027s the these are one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:48",
    "text": "disagreement so what we are going to do I think we are going to feedback to the reviewer our opinion I might try just a like a wording change like say how to do this is unspecified and see if they think that is good yeah I mean sometimes something like that can solve the problem sounds very reasonable next slide okay the ops Directorate oh thank you just one suggestion if you really get stuck against that Donald I think that that\u0027s foliat ah yeah not to mention names with Dan Worley and his general review said that when we said X is out of scope that him he thought that implied to the reader that there was a mechanism to do X so the issue with this document is the concern about the security considerations and that is what there is a discuss on of course we always really greatly appreciate the reviews and comments that are received during the Directorate but it is up to the area directors who have those directorates to decide whether or not they are discussed worthy that is not discussed worthy and is not blocking thank you in other words the chair says if it\u0027s really if you feel more comfortable with the original words leave it it\u0027s that a little bit more blunt trying to get a lot of --dress through I\u0027m gonna get blunt and direct if I apologize ahead of time you always may disagree with me and do something else but I\u0027m just right now okay I\u0027ll see you so this talks about the ops review so basically there are two paths from them the first ones are talking about the operational considerations and the second ones management considerations yeah Sosa from the operational point of view now impact on failure to optimize should be no worse than their existing case without optimization this is I guess this is what we have done is is let me see right III I think for from this document we have already specified right yeah it\u0027s no worse than without my optimization so this they should be okay so therefore the steady stick or counter "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:49",
    "text": "both from the operational in that management view they talks about the statistical counters I guess so for this one we we think we can actually it\u0027s up to the implementation because it\u0027s not really the statistical country\u0027s try to remember okay for example how many how many ARP Oh address requests had been received something like that but it\u0027s really up to the implementation but we we can add some text to to give more clear description on this and okay move on to the management it talks about the yam model how to configure between different policy should be covered because okay this talks about because we have we can use different policies for example whether to reply based on the local cache or or let the address request passing to the real destination in order to do the double confirmation so there are different policies so this comment basically is whether okay ideally as a young model I we have a gain model and based on the fact we have to revise the a model for the revised data stores leave it to the game just say our game model revisions will consider oh yeah less the ops to review said ready with knits none of these were discussed worthy it\u0027s lovely to put some breadcrumb trails into the egg model thank you yes and you don\u0027t have to put that in the document you can just respond to the to the to the review that way we\u0027re being real blunt with these guys no okay sounds good to me the the last one okay the last is the security from from security I suggest to need a clearer comparison of using or not using the optimizations so what we are thinking generally this okay we do not think we impose ending anything worse or better by using the optimization from from this Oh actually unless we are using a very reliable directory to to push and pull all this address mappings otherwise is we don\u0027t we we don\u0027t have any change to current security considerations so probably I guess we are we just give some text explain what\u0027s our standpoint for this right okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:50",
    "text": "oh yeah yeah could you give us some wisdom and this is the one thing we really have to talk about as a group so nature help guys can you tell us what the ad was really wanting on this do you know what Eric\u0027s mind is this one this came from Eric risk oh yeah Donald if you know yeah I mean there\u0027s further points here and in general some of his points which we put on the next slide actually it seemed like he was asking for a thorough threat analysis of layer 2 security which I\u0027m not sure we need to do like he said what if the you what if the attacker creates a fake DHCP server well sure that things get screwed up it lets you you know I mean there\u0027s what we\u0027re not trying to solve the problem of fake DHCP servers the extent that it should I mean you know it\u0027s not ours yes I think we should talk offline and have the you know do a reference to that and so on I will you know I have not talked to Eric about this yet if that looks like it would be productive I can certainly do so but I would like to have more in hand on which aspects and how they\u0027re being addressed before doing so author interaction with them and see what maybe that\u0027ll maybe a look at that right yes duplicate IP address so let me see yeah hand on it yeah basically what we\u0027re thinking is unless we have a very complete reliable directory then we am then we we are very sure okay this add up to authorize these appear IP address should be used by which one otherwise there is there is no much thing we can do because the duplicate address I mean waster no mention on ARP and and either there this is the case but we don\u0027t do anything worse than that so so so unless we have this real a bottle tree then we should trust it otherwise we have got nothing to do with it that\u0027s that\u0027s my that\u0027s my thought anything you want no no no okay that\u0027s the last one oh there were most likely logging the duplicate address this what what okay this is to suggest whenever there is a duplicate rest being detected probably wouldn\u0027t need to do the logging but I kind of think is still implementation are specific but we\u0027ll add the text to say okay this is recommended next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:51",
    "text": "slide I guess this is yeah whatever I thought about the fake DHCP server yeah this is all I guess yeah so currently the status is publication requested we solve some comments but we have some I guess two from two rivers we\u0027re going to resolve them when we resolve them and eighties have signed off then okay we hope it won\u0027t be released a - I\u0027ve said editor yeah okay thank you thank you this is a very short do you have the from the top okay this is what I mentioned before and I all of them yang models that haven\u0027t gone through the is G are being requested to do revise that the revised data storm models for yang I need the input I mentioned earlier in order to go on did you find it okay yeah there it is okay just go down it\u0027s just one slide it was real quick that\u0027s that\u0027s this is my funny joke for the thing this is the pre and do in the end config and that\u0027s how long they\u0027re debating I thought it was a cute picture it\u0027s it\u0027s a dr. Seuss if you\u0027re a US person and then we think it\u0027s resolving actually into me the revised data store the network management I don\u0027t know what an MD a sense for but it\u0027s something but the revised datastore draft is actually looks like it\u0027s doing well and about completed set some more nits but the recommendation is that everything that goes before it but there\u0027d be okay those are the big landfill speeds just go ahead and change it that\u0027s okay it\u0027s only one more thing a little bit with other thing that\u0027s very I\u0027m more interested in talking about thin waist up I just need to tell you that these are all free revive straps the connection or the mention of strap is actually making progress through the line so I\u0027ve gotta find out could you pack what whether he wants the trip om to go through the connection with stuff "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:52",
    "text": "which you know it is oh I\u0027m sorry um I\u0027m sorry John let me go through this again for you guys there the trip all the yang models whoa all the yang models are being revised because the yang model structure is changing to what\u0027s called a revised data store unfortunately it\u0027s at us another one of the working groups I chair that cause that by adding dynamic data stores in cause it okay you want to tell me what what a correctly there sure oh yes yeah no it wasn\u0027t that it\u0027s the issue of operational and intended state versus configuration bias on to the point of the yang I would add a third option to what you have just to jump in yes slightly which is to take what\u0027s implemented and you know do the presentation layer transformation to the data store and then have what\u0027s actually implemented as an appendix in the same RFC and we can do that those are the three options are actually two options to separate RFC\u0027s one RFC the only thing that I have to include there is ezel if anyone\u0027s done the line drat the line om stuff in Huawei if you just check though you don\u0027t have to find out now you know that the line though I\u0027m that\u0027s the that\u0027s Tisa\u0027s om that went from us to lime and then where they have the centralized yeah Lima is a working group yeah yeah I know you so you\u0027re asking whether there\u0027s any person down to the lime yam ordering idea for in their product your product personally I don\u0027t think so but okay I could check yeah if you just double check I assume not okay and does anybody have any feeling no feeling is fine we\u0027ll just do what\u0027s right okay I see no strong feeling jumping up okay Donald will you bring up from ways I think we\u0027ve get just enough time to talk about the smart end notes problem okay Oh wonderful can you see it okay that\u0027s good "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:53",
    "text": "I\u0027ll be a hundred yeah okay take the moment to read it there you go throw the readings hard there so it\u0027s just talking about snooping you see where it says that I\u0027m a reef Astor than you I apologize okay mmm yeah it\u0027s a fun way from city so I well so I\u0027m sorry that I didn\u0027t know this comments before well yeah so our our try to analysis comments and the traffic is don\u0027t yeah I\u0027d be happy there so I\u0027m so I\u0027m sorry that some of the sensor I\u0027m some of the some of the did I did I\u0027m sorry that I forgot her some of the details so that\u0027s a very good answer please check be careful oh thank you I can I can send you some suggestive texts and things like that okay so I basically commented on those smart n nodes and the correctly assistant cap drafts so and there\u0027s some editorial teams that\u0027s the main talking make sure the technical stuff so this is the wrap-up if you go back to the document status for McDonald I think those are all taken care of I think we\u0027ve done in notes okay I\u0027m again my whole focus here is to get your drafts out and in to my intent is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:54",
    "text": "to send all of these within two working groups last fall is there anyone that you feel I mean other than the Trillo am because I have to deal with the revised data stores is it and I\u0027m not intending to send trophy CI for all the rest is there any problem with these straps that you foresee because otherwise we\u0027ll do we\u0027ll start working group last fall\u0027s a really this is Pacifica and I know that the nine current work group and and I have word I have heard rather about a year oh my young data model this is the based on the my NASA furniture so I can really the young om more the trio I\u0027m a Yankee tomahto you know yeah Oh young yes Bingley and Eva Donald multi-level anything you see that\u0027s a problem before we go to working through classical otherwise one of the purposes of working with less call is to give people a chance to review it again and might find something but um but I\u0027m asking nobody sees any problems you know I\u0027m not aware of when you right now I\u0027m not aware of anybody okay these are all gonna go to a working group last call hey I think there may be some outstanding unresolved comments on transport over MPLS okay if you check that but guys this will go I will probably start sending it out tonight I\u0027m not waiting for any of this okay we\u0027ll get all this through any other questions about any of the drafts or any things we\u0027re trying to complete okay and your adoption call will go out once I get online again I just want to well it would be announcement that it has been adopted it will be the announcement that it has been adopted all the drafts that we mentioned go down to the adoption draft so I can say that again those two were these two are adopted I just I\u0027m because we\u0027re in a different type of season of just getting everything done I wanted to make sure you Donald and the working group knew that this has got to go fast as long as there\u0027s no objection all these things will go to working group last call if you\u0027ve been a drill graft and all the adoption stuff will go in I will do a personal review and then I will ask to go to working group last call this is this is a different season okay please respond your same great response "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:55",
    "text": "I\u0027ll ask you a question I\u0027ll ask you things about the document my last few things about deployment you\u0027ve been doing great about responding any other questions any other thoughts well I\u0027ll return the rest of the day to you enjoy okay - it was so the they will store it is that basically when I have some others a one question I have to find out someone else no actually I\u0027m reading through one piece of writer in and then he you "
  }
]