[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:10",
    "text": "um all right is [Music] okay okay hi all uh bear with us a second while we're still getting prepped for presentations um one quick question uh normally in advance i try to get a scribe we have utterly failed to do that was not on top of it if anybody is able to describe for us please let me know tim would normally do it but he's going to be co-chairing the deprived half of the session so a scribe would be greatly appreciated right i meant to ask uh glenn are you use you are online good i don't know if you want to explain why you're not sitting up here or whether what that is so uh jump on in and say something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "ah so i have to have a separate meat echo session up um all right except that only shows the queue oh that's right yeah he's the chair he can uh where's dk dkg slides are for you right though so i can handle that so i do it all from back over boom boom i'm already logged in are you for real i don't oh my god um okay i don't have chair power so i yeah this would have gone a little bit more smoothly if i was already logged into data tracker and it's asking me to do it again and of course i'm not come on oh check my email you're kidding me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:05",
    "text": "well because it makes you think that you entered your password wrong yes it was me verifying your device thanks for verifying now let me in now i did type it wrong okay now we're there and now i can log in by a data tracker it's logging me in right um i asked glenn but he's still not responding okay actually uh glenn if you can hear me please buzz in in chat glenn said his mic is not working okay um [Music] finally we are in okay request browser conditions complete okay and then we have where is our chat queue oh now we can do the presentation view right yes please go eric uh welcome to our area director eric who will uh has a very short presentation on some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "new plans in the itfdns space so i prepared some slides they will be into the materials but it's basically three slides explaining that more and more draft are relying on dns team was kind enough to make some statistics if not mistaken there were about 59 draft that were using the word dns in the title or in the abstract so there are way more documents using dns than one identify my team some of them are from this group from deep drive dns op or add of course right and basically those people in those working group understand dns so like no problem but there are many more working groups relying on dns and i'm not sure about the knowledge of dns so that would i mean you have review draft claiming dns protocol or dns infrastructure and doing very strange thing with this so the point of doing again the dns directorate and it's a decision by the isg the led the nssd d prive and dns up shares is basically to allow early review so when a working group has got a dash 0 0 that has been adopted they can request an early review of their draft pretty much like the young doctors right but having something called dns doctors does not look very nice so we call it the next directorate right simply so it will be created shortly after this iitf meeting warren and myself will be sending an email asking for volunteers you can go to the last slide would be superb"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "that's basically the statistics done by tim so the next step is really around august i am sending and one will be sending for dns up an email asking for volunteers for the reviewers and the goal for us would be to get a very experienced reviewers as well as less experienced reviewer but they are eager to learn about what is the review task and basically become maybe more than a reviewer later right the goal of the isg is really to get a pipeline of talents right to get from lurkers to authors reviewers shepherds chairs or whatever and becoming a doieb member so that's really important to get this balance we are also looking for two directorate secretaries that are basically the person assigning reviews to the people so that's again we will be sending this before end of august most probably so thank you in advance for stepping forward on this and i'll give you the flow well uh we'll go back just one go back one slide tim i should have sent this 3d kg this was just a sample of what's kind of driving this all of how dns cross-cuts so many different groups yeah so so this is anacond gilmore uh aclu so i appreciate this work the attempt to try to um provide an overview from the dns point of view but i'm also not sure that i know that there is a dns point of view um say a point so i'm wondering do you do you have a uh like any sort of rubric that you would expect reviewers to use i mean are we talking about like i run resolvers within my organization and i want to make sure this draft doesn't screw them up i'm responsible for the authoritative zone i'm thinking about things architecturally i'm worried about cryptographic processes i'm worried"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "about udp limits like there's a whole range of different things to think about do you have a way to tell us if if anybody wants to volunteer for this what they should be looking for because people might be experiencing one thing and not another and that's a fair point again so as usual right the perfect is admin of the good right so any review early stage is better than something at the isg level later so even if not perfect it would be nice but i think that they're asking for the secretary of this dns directorate they know the experience of all the reviewers and if they quickly look at the abstract of the the id they could select the right person that could be one way of doing it but honestly if we don't try we will never know that's basically it thank you that's a good point yeah jim reid please sorry yeah we have uh two more in queue right now james speaking solely for myself eric for the members of this direct eric so my name's jim reed sorry if people didn't pick me up in the mic there speaking for myself and the plans for the members of this directorate and the secretariat function that you were talking about here they expect to go through all of the submitted drafts to look for dns related content or those that are putting dns related content in the draft speak specified to notify the director of the secretariat thing you're talking about what is it going to be so the rules and the procedures will still need to be refined right and the experience will tell but the expectation is really to the other working group shares right no team and the brand of the world but somebody doing young models right yeah that would talk about it oh maybe there is dns content i know i will request a review okay thank you okay yes it's endless story thank you paul hoffman please well hoffman so i'm a little bit concerned but you have time to allay my concern i am concerned that one of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "reviews one of the early reviews is going to come back to a working group saying don't do that in the dns or you're doing it wrong is that actually since some people will say don't do into dns a different reviewer would say that's just fine or whatever how are you gonna i mean it's fine to say a for review to say oh you got this a little bit wrong but there's half the people in this room are don't do it in the dns the other people are like ooh cool a new new thing in the dns yeah but if only the goal of the directorate would be to block early to drive that we're doing bad thing i would declare success okay thank you this time the queue is empty yes thank you eric so as a reminder since we got a little bit of a late start thanks to the clown show that was going on up here um i will just really blow through our slides really quickly as far as the chair slides go you're all familiar with the no well by now if you're not then please look it up separately because i'm not giving you enough time to read it here um it is the standard ietf noel the one thing that we've been asked to emphasize though and you know looks like we have pretty high compliance rate in here but in a meeting room you it is a requirement of the conference that you wear your mask please and uh done just a couple of other links for our agenda and all uh hi i'm dave lawrence glenn is online he unfortunately could not be in the room with us uh today uh you just met eric our area director and uh we want to put a special thanks to andrew kampling who recently for the first time in the itef took on the role of document shepard and worked through three pretty large documents and really helped get them advanced forward so thank you very much to andrew we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "uh really progressed these now um through ie iesg review the status of the documents is really quite solid um so in that in that 10 minutes of clown show did any of you come up with a burning desire to be our scribe please oh look at that mr hoffman thank you very kind sir uh welcome from the chairs welcome bendy uh bill coleman uh a.d comments that would be you eric he he's commented he's done um the status updates on our documents of course uh glenn i'm sorry his mic is not working because i'm not sure exactly uh what he wanted to say about these other than they have been progressing nicely again thanks to both the shepherding of andrew and then very thorough iesg looks at it there are a few discussed items that are outstanding i don't remember off the top of my head which ones i think it's for ddr um glenn please comment in chat if you wanted to make any special additional comments about that um i'm being told the volume's a bit low but that might be because my face is not adequately in the microphone um and so the status right now though is really solid for uh these documents that are uh in iesg review and are expected to move forward to publication imminently or rather they go to off 48 of course for per process but we expect approval for eventual eventual publishing as an rfc then um here's the timeline i'm not sure glenn please comment in chat and i'll be happy to relay it to the microphone what you wanted to observe about this particular document other than that it is a draft that the working group has adopted and i will just wait for glenn if you want to make any additional"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "comment here oh they have slides so we're going to be doing a presentation for that the dns resolver information draft oh eric points out that the service speed document is also clear of all discuss and so it is essentially through iesg at this point and uh so here again our current drafts uh ben has another draft that is not gone through uh ietf adoption call yet but i expect we're moving in that direction right um oh ben will comment on that i i just wanted to correct that this this document is uh is a document that went through a working group adoption call and did not get adopted it it failed the uh adoption quality right here in add uh and uh and and this session we are presenting it again it has been substantially changed incorporating a lot of feedback and uh i believe chris chris box will be uh going through the details of them right and i apologize um for having ill prepared myself to speak to that uh the glenn's inability to be here kind of really threw a curveball at us all uh however i believe we are ready then to move on to our first presentation which is going to be on uh do you have the agenda i don't know that the slides are in order is the thing okay it's a split horizon one and this is uh dan wing are you presenting dan is uh miked in if um from remote do you want to drive your own slides sir yeah if you share them and give me control that would work out great right uh okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "lovely um how do i pass control to you okay i have to stop sharing okay that's what i thought that's fine too oh past slides control look at that there we go it's like fourth or fifth item down on the list okay i think i got the right there you go great take it away dan cool um i'm dan wing uh this is uh the split horizon authority uh it just became a zero zero for the working group um in this uh so as we transition this from individual to uh working group draft uh we introduced uh and and refined the term split horizon dns and validated split horizon they have kind of the obvious meaning but we'll touch on them briefly updated the scope um talked about how to use a pre-pre-configured external resolver in dns and have a little bit of detail on that and how we are avoiding leaking the internal data domains to external resolvers which was a concern that came up early on so terminology split horizon dns is where we are forking off a different view of what the dns is from for internal use or for non-public use and then what what is uh on the public dns um it's been around for a long time uh frequently frowned upon but this seems to be the closest definition closest concise definition that we could reach in the document so far"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "and then validated split horizon is the thing this draft is mostly concerning itself with which is make sure that when there is a split horizon the owner of the domain the public owner of the domain feels that this split is legitimate so this is what prevents this draft from being useful for filtering and this has been some confusion with earlier versions of this that because split horizon and rpz are both kind of used today as mechanisms to achieve uh filtering this draft does not help with towards those ends the validated split horizon uses either dns sec or querying a public resolver to determine that the split is authorized by the domain owner so that helps constrain our scope of course which is has been our goal in the draft for a while um but again it's uh refined a little bit in this version so we're allowing the domain owner to authorize a split horizon view of their domain so it's useful everywhere that this might be needed so for home networks enterprise networks service providers especially mobile service providers interested in this sort of thing um and that there's no prior configuration of the end point that a uh domain hint was authorized it can all be checked by doing the dns sect check like i said or the public dns check the public resolver check as i discussed um so these are the the steps what's in blue so this is not changed but this is just an overview what's in blue are how things are learned so this is not unique or or introduced by this draft what is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "uh unique and and introduced by this draft is what's in green so that's where we connect to the cl the name server that claims uh to own this split horizon and verify that it's been authorized by talking with directly with it and those that and some steps operated uh on the client are how we achieve that verification that it's an authorized split of dns and this is something probably want the working group to touch on or to you know folks to kind of highlight to review because we we've kind of moved around on this text a couple of times um and that's uh how how to best word this as a must-not is what we have in there right now but we've had a couple of comments on that exactly how to work this is how to do the dns sect validation in a way that doesn't weaken anything when we're trying to validate the the split horizon this kind of touches into you know captive portal can't do dns tech validation quite yet when we're trying to do this split horizon validation oftentimes we are in a captive portal situation so when that when that gets triggered and when we can start doing the local dns sec validation uh and when we're out of captive portal uh turns into an interesting uh timing issue that i think we would want to touch on and get some further feedback on from the working group and read this section of the draft and an important point some of the review comments early on i think we've resolved these completely now but to not leak internal domain names so we do leak out to the public resolver if the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "public resolver is queried that you have an internal you know split horizon you know internal.example.com or corp.example.com or whatever that is but we don't leak out the internal host name so the super secret hostname of www we don't leak that out or the super secret hostname of mail.internal.uh example.com we don't leak out the mail the hostname portion of that um some uh there's some interest in keeping that uh internal you know not not leaking that out and and to be clear we're not leaking out that hosting but we do leak out if we are triggering off of that zone name so the internal dot example.com uh and that's where we are with zero zero again mostly uh tying things up from the individual draft to the first working group iteration of this document so are there any comments questions the queue is open please uh ben schwartz please hi ben schwartz uh i'm uh one of the one of the listed authors here uh this uh i think the my real my big question here is is really what changes do people want uh you know this draft is in my view self-consistent uh you know implementable as written and uh and so you know we're in the working group but uh you know there's no reason to stay in the working group unless and you know no reason to delay a last call"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "unless there are changes that people want and it you know from the discussion during adoption it does sound like there are there were some people who felt the changes were were needed so i'd like to to hear those concerns and and you know see if we can get moving on them i want to point out that uh earlier revisions of this draft said something very specific about provisioning domains and so to anybody who thinks that who's still thinking about this in those terms the draft has evolved somewhat and at this point uh talks very generally about the idea of a local domain hint and there are all sorts of different ways that your local network might tell you hey i want you to give special treatment to this particular domain name and and this draft claims to be suitable for all of those including some dhcp options for example so if your network uses dhcp it's at least in principle possible to use this mechanism in that kind of network thank you ben andrew kampling please i am all right i i just want to say i thought the the draft is good and it solves an important problem so unless anyone else has any substantive comments it'd be good to see it move to last call sooner or later if we can thank you andrew tommy paulie hello uh thanks for the document um i think one thing would be good before we move immediately to last call since it's quite new be good to also see some implementation deployment experience in some networks that are doing this um the question i had looking through this when we're talking about validating the kind of the authority over the hints one of the requirements it has in there is that essentially you either doing dnr on your network or you have like v2"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "other types of split domains um is that is that a strict requirement like essentially i'm wondering like when we're asking someone to be able to do this because there are lots of scenarios where our devices are in split dns environments um are we saying like you must always upgrade to dnr before this is really viable are there other things that could be done like like is you know is some setup of ddr okay or like is there something else that is a sufficient hit to upgrade uh so uh ben schwartz uh the the restriction to dnr and not ddr is because dnr gives us a unique hostname to identify the resolver ddr does not provide us with a unique hostname it does provide us with a valid certificate that contains zero or more host names uh if the if that certificate contains one or more host names then you could potentially use a mechanism essentially just like this but it would require you to do this thing do this slightly odd dance of connecting to the server getting a certificate back and then iterating over the list of names that are in the certificate and processing them through uh checking them against this list looking for a match and so it's a very unusual mode of certificate validation and for that reason we didn't specify it but it can be done securely so if you think it's worth pursuing then that's something that we can certainly push on yeah i think that's kind of the main feedback i would like to see because like yes i get that it is far uglier and it involves more steps on the client however i'm thinking you know this is super useful for enterprise deployments where i imagine it will be far easier to do some of the updates on the back end to make it possible to do this validation and some of their equipment you know waiting for that hardware to support dnr"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "is going to take a lot longer so in the meantime having a dance the client can do that takes longer but still works is going to be very very helpful thank you tommy and ben i believe that's it dan i had a notification that somebody was joining the queue but i think they misclicked on their phone so yeah thanks everybody yes thank you dan okay next ahmed is a brief presentation on the resolver info draft thank you yeah so this will be i would say um a quick presentation of the um the recent update we have on this draft so please if you can move to the next slide so in in this slides we have a summary of what we have in the uh during the last 80s meetings so this is the um we shortened the list of the attributes we are currently advertising for the reservoir so we have something which is really very restrict and limited we also constrained some of the attributes that was already defined in the draft so that we have some i would say which is mainly used for the diagnostics that it can be exposed not not exposed directly to the to the users and the last modification and the importance that we made is that we stretch the validations that we we are um requiring for some of the consumption of the of the attributes next slide please so this is basically for us i think as we uh as authors we think that the the document is um i would say in a stable state and we would like to um to proceed with the uh the um i call for adoption for for for this document especially because this i would say meet one of the started item we have on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "in this working group which is explicitly shorter to provide them a solution for i would say the discovery of the information of the reservoir information um so and we are another item is that we are using this solution for another solution we have in another working group to restrict some of the options we are using for the uh destructured errors that we are providing to the customers so there is this i would say um a clear need for this solution to provide the two um one of the shorter items for the add working group but also for other use cases and we think that the document the document provides straightforward solutions and you would like to yeah so that the working of consider the id adoption and that's it yeah okay thank you very much uh the queue is open for feedback hi punitsud from google public dns so the general structure looks fine i have one question and one suggestion on the format so the main question is i skim through the list to see the discussion and it's mostly the authors and benchmarks i have not seen interest from implementers so i'm curious if there are client-side implementers who are willing to implement this protocol yes at least for my knowledge i am not an implement i don't have i would say a client in which we we will implement this we are more on the network side so this is the equation for the working group so if there are implementers that are interested to have this this feature it's up to them to uh to disclose yeah okay yeah because i would like to see some implementer interest before the this draft is uh taken on board by the working group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "uh the other it's a suggestion uh the the format of the resinfo has like a x string for a bunch of dns options i would suggest it will be easier and more compact to basically use the numeric codes for the eds zero options instead of trying to encode them as text so you could just have one field which says here's all the edns zero options the resolver supports and then you don't need any iana support for doing that yeah this is something which is workable once we have i would say the draft adopted and so on so that's yeah and that's a comment sorry i didn't mean to distract you it was a quick chair sidebar um but there is nobody else in the queue uh last last call except not that kind of last call thank you very much okay and now uh ben i imagine are you coming up for oh okay one moment while i get the slides up uh no uh right is that true you're not required so are you sharing yes we have no magic clicker so um you just go ahead and this is the um verified selection of the option right yes so you have to tell me though when you need to advance okay hi everyone um so as ben mentioned uh there is a new revision of this draft was posted two weeks ago um it's got a new name so it's now called reputation verified selection of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "upstream encrypted resolvers um and this is all about these things yeah so the uh home routers in millions of homes sitting there in the corner people generally ignore them but they are hard to upgrade and if you even if as an isp you send someone a replacement router often they just ignore it so the question is how do we give these people encrypted service so this ben presented this the previous one in in vienna and uh subsequently in april there was an adoption call and in that call there were some indications of support but there were also some valid points made that we agree needed thinking about so um the structure and flow quite confusing it needs a normal introduction um it defines what was called a relaxed validation policy which was seen as problematic because it didn't really go into what the client should do it was there was a lot of discussion about the problems that could arise but they're in later sections another comment was using the network's resolvable without encryption would be better than an unverifiable upgrade alternative and asking to see more revision and clarity and having trusted resolvers would be far stronger than checking again every five minutes which is one of the mitigations that we had on in the previous draft so if you go to the next slide please so the uh the zero two draft is significantly changed it's it's no longer informational which is what the previous one was um this draft now proposes what client should do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "um and what it does it requires the use of a reputation system to give an opinion on the discovered encrypted upstream resolver it leaves the choice of the reputation system to the client so to be defined well not to be defined here anyway upgrades only occur if the reputation system gives a green light and hence it has a new name for this draft which is reputation verified selection of other stream encrypted resolvers so the way it works is the client does a normal ddr discovery the legacy dns forwarder which was the one in the picture since it doesn't understand ddr it just forwards that query upstream the upstream recursive resolver has been upgraded to support an encrypted service and so it replies with its details of how to access those services the client ultimately receives that response and then executes this procedure which is rvs and that procedure verifies the identity of the offered encrypted service and it checks then checks the reputation of those confirmed identities if there are more than one so for example that could be checking the identities against an embedded list of known trusted resolvers if the determined reputation meets the client's criteria it can commence using encrypted dns towards the upstream resolver so this is known as cross forwarder upgrade next slide please so we did note some two issues with this so one is if the local forwarder is providing an essential blocking function"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "like for malware um it should be told to block this cross forward upgrade um so we're assuming here that any resolver that is doing blocking has some means of which you can update what exactly it's blocking um so you can add resolver.arpa to that and by that means you're blocking the cross forward upgrade the other one is clients should be capable of detecting which names are part of a split horizon so they can exempt those queries from a cross-folder upgrade so for example example.local.home.arpa and the names that are learned by our local mechanisms are validated as we've just discussed and if none of that is possible on the client then an x domain fallback is something that can also be used next slide please so this is all about the reputation system so embedding a list of known trusted resolvers in the client is only one possible model for assessing that reputation um so in future a range of online reputation systems might be available to queried and they they would could each return an answer according to their own specific criteria so you might have a wrong property such as the jurisdiction of the resolver or its certification by a particular body it's out of scope for the draft to define the query methods um just it just notes that designers should be aware of bootstrapping problems in um looking that up it's the client's decision of course as to how to combine those answers possibly using other metadata but ultimately it makes a determination of reputation so if you are a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "developer of client software um why should you care about this so as we kind of mentioned at the beginning so there's um a larger fraction of residential internet users rely on local dns forwarders that are not compatible with ddr because they are on a private ip address and they are difficult to upgrade so if we do nothing it's likely that um that half of those users will continue to be relying on doe 53 and of course that means that they are subject to passive monitoring either on the local network or between that network and the upstream so it's considerably quicker to enable encrypted dns for a handful of isp core network sites than to enable it for those millions of forwarders rvs enables the use of encrypted transport in those configurations next slide please um so in the draft um it does define a particular way of confirming the identity of the upstream uh resolver that we've been pointed towards and in fact the method is is the one that um ben ben mentioned earlier about uh getting the certificate and iterating through um doing the dance as it was put um another an alternative to that is we could just look at the service binding target name and use that as the resolver identity but that would um require the use of s i and it would not be compatible with all upstream resolvers um the other open question is we could"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "simplify the resolver identity so currently for do the resolver identity is the uri template um we could shrink that down to just the domain name that makes the reputation systems easier because you just have to define a reputation for whatever the domain name is but the problem with n is you don't you can't differentiate between different uri paths on the same domain name so that's that's the draft 0-2 in a nutshell question for the working group is do you think that's better would it be beneficial to users and can the design be improved ready for questions yep have you seen that view is open and eric please eric google um mostly just a general vote of confidence i liked the last version of this and thought it was the best plan to solve the problem of upgrading when the home routers are in play and this new version it does a lot of clarifications it mostly mandates the part of the original strategies i wanted and allows other parts i wanted and so for all i'm still happy with this and still want to do it so i'm still enthusiastic and i still want this to be adopted thank you great thanks all right andrew kempling hi i just wanted to say on i suppose on the second question that uh chris asks uh given i think we had stats possibly from google that 85 percent of traffic comes from private ip addresses that this is extremely beneficial to users um so we've got to have a solution to the problem of how to support consumers in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "probably most markets geographically around the world this does it so unless we've got a better idea we need to move forward with this as soon as we can thank you andrew tommy jensen tommy jensen microsoft i find a new direction quite interesting if i'm understanding the presentation correctly uh admitting that i haven't read the full text yet that instead of trying to address the problem of if the upgrade was secure it's more about somehow i got to a new resolver and i would like to know if this resolver independent of how i found it is trustworthy um generally speaking i think that's a better security approach so uh thanks for addressing that feedback i will say in terms of interest and adoption that i'm it's hard for me to imagine a way in which our ecosystem would benefit from having such a system uh i say that because we've desperately avoided having a trust list note that the list of resolvers that currently ships in windows is a bootstrapping uh convenience we don't trust those resolvers any more than we trust any other resolvers we fully rely on the user to to select a resolver and so the question i would pose in terms of interest in adoption from the client side is if as a client i am having some custom solution to evaluate the trustworthiness of resolver that means i have some idea of who i trust why not have some similarly out of band specific to me mechanism to simply provide the resolvers to the client thank you thank you tommy and the queue is closed thank you chris and ben uh next on the agenda is a time for open discussion um and aob's if anybody had either"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "something they want to revisit some general comments to offer glenn and i actually do have an aob but we have decided to put it off till ietf115 when we both can be fully engaged in it so we leave it and now you in the room if you have anything that you would like to bring up tim's making motions like he did but uh i think in that case i want to invite glenn to the microphone because he claims he has a working microphone now glenn try your mic oh he's on fantastic are you going to then address our planning and wrap-up agenda item um yeah hi there can you hear me yes we can hear you do i sound really wonderful you sound like you're doing great um so uh you know i think in terms of planning a wrap-up uh thank you for uh being patient with us as we got the kinks worked out of the system here i think uh tail and myself work best when we're a team and when one of the team is actually working his job properly and and not just dumping on the other guy so my apologies from from not holding up my side of the uh the production quality here um other than that i think we were in really good shape you know i'm glad that we've got the three drafts that are now going um you know through through the final parts of the process that's really wonderful you know i i want to point out this is the first time addd has met in person actually um you know at least the first time you've had one of the chairs in the room uh so you know pat yourselves on the back we've done this in the last two years all virtually and the fact we've actually got three drafts now um on their way off and we've got a couple more good ones in the pipeline is quite the a testament to how well this group has come together and worked very hard over the last uh two years so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "my thanks to you for being a really good group to manage that's all i've got to say over to youtail yeah uh along those lines perhaps the pandemic actually worked in our favor the word um ever since the beginning of dough there's always been this expectation that there were going to be a lot of fisticuffs around this whole topic area and so the group has been remarkably civil has done very well and we're all very thankful for that but that really would be the end of the add a session unless um eric wants to comment on anything he's shaking his head no so i would just again like to thank everybody for participating you've been doing a wonderful job and again thank you to paul hoffman for volunteering to be our scribe and now i'm going to turn it over to tim to run the deprive half of our session thank you thank you dave and dave's going to run slides mostly because i've watched this laptop drop internet twice and meet echo during this session so sorry wireless you're not holding up for me very well so um so welcome to the to the deprived section you've seen the note well already from dave um i'm tim wisinski eric over there is our very responsible a.d he's it's also his birthday he's 29 years old i believe he said so any aging is because he's been working as an area director way too long so and what happened to brian will you know next slide so so we're we're very glad to see you guys in person so the three of us so i believe brian's here someplace so dude next yep so it's not yeah so he came up with a very last minute week excuse for not showing up so so he may be online to sort of say stuff but we'll see looks like barry has something to say so please let me know this is barry i'm asking about logistics for dealing with this um i presume that we all stay in the add session yes we all stay inside the 80d actually what about the um the chat the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "zulip chat it should be the same and then what we'll do it they'll be combined into the minutes and we'll probably break them out into minutes for both of us as well that's what we did last time and it seemed to seem to work very well thank you so we like i like to copy the minutes copy the chat into the minutes at the end is sort of like it's because it's a great way to sort of track all the conversations sort of thing so you've seen the code of conduct you know about the masking policy um let's pop off our agenda's pretty short um we we've got some working group status where we stand things of that nature and we're going to discuss unilateral probing daniel he submitted some slides an hour ahead of time which is plenty of time i'm not sure why he was worried so um we're ready for those so basically sort of where we stand and brian will kind of speak to this as well if he actually actually showed up for the meeting um is things are moving along but they're kind of slow we understand that we're considering kind of maybe going dark for a little bit while implementations go on it's like we're not sort of chasing people away but we want to see some stuff get built and some flight with we like the work going on in unilateral probing and we just want to see where things are going and we're hoping there's some you know folks some implanters sort of show up and say hell yeah we've got something this that etc etc so we're open to suggestions on that we'd like to hear ideas from the work group or what else they think we could be doing on that stage as well so so next i believe that's it from the slides and i think then we've got mr mr gilmore so we'll let him take it away i think i have to reload my meet echo session to actually get your slide since they approved do what you need to do technology"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:21",
    "text": "this is the part where i get to sing right yeah yeah because yeah it's not in but it's definitely in the approach look at all that unilateral pro here we go all right okay but now let's get it it still doesn't show up in the presenting list though oh wait a new slide deck has been shared it's like magic you know sorry indistinguishable from broken technology i blame me so i'm going to talk to you all about the unilateral probing document um which basically is about uh probing for encrypted transport between the recursive resolver and the authoritative dns server um the basic idea behind it while this draft well this slides come up just as a recap to remind you is that uh the idea here is people have some concerns about how how well recursive resolvers are going to be able to make encrypted connections to authoritative servers and we wanted to just get more experience without having to answer the hard questions of like how do we authenticate the server or when should we hard fail or what do we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "do if there are problems we just wanted to try doing it and so the unilateral probing document uh is relatively straightforward and that it basically says the recursive resolver should just try um and the authoritative server should offer encrypted transport and the recursive resolver should try uh encrypted transport and it gives some guidance about how to do that in a way that minimizes uh excess uh resource consumption that reduces the amount of clear text but makes no real guarantees certainly no guarantees against an active attacker on the network so the document has been through a couple of drafts paul hoffman just came on as an additional author which is much appreciated um i don't want to interrupt this the slides issue here but the uh the baseline for this is is really not it's really not that hard it's very similar in some sense to happy eyeballs which we use to try to get ipv4 and ipv6 when you weren't sure what you could do it's basically saying do a similar kind of thing between clear text dns traffic between the recurser and the authoritative but do it with encrypted transport and there's a few parameters that it recommends setting about if you learn that you have a successful encrypted transport to an authoritative server you can remember that for a short period of time and then use that to avoid sending clear text as long as you know that you are likely to have a successful encrypted connection and it does all of that without any uh authentication requirements so the idea is this is a baseline um that hopefully can be then merged with some ability to do authenticated and potentially uh strict uh encrypted transport between on that leg um uh when that becomes available"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "um so you've got slides there it's coming all right i mean i feel like the slides are going to be a real letdown uh after all of this oh yeah look at that it never showed up in the regular presenting queue all right you hacked around it i appreciate that i did the recap there um yep so um uh yeah so the primary goal of this draft though is that there should be no need for explicit coordination between the authoritative resolver and the recurser that basically this is really just about how do you just try in a way that doesn't make everybody on the network sad how do we do it so that it doesn't scare people off next slide the main changes in the latest version aside from adding uh paul to the uh authors list uh as we took some discussion about maybe what the future steps might be and move that to an appendix to not distract from the main point did some clarification about state transitions when sending over encrypted transport the definition of the state transitions was slightly wrong it was uh actually a little more strict than it needed to be um with this kind of happy eyeballs approach we actually want you to even if you got an answer back uh from cleartext we'd like you to keep trying with your encrypted connection because maybe you'll learn something on that try for the next time you have to talk to that resolver and uh somebody i think sarah dickinson i think noticed that the um [Music] the way we were looking at how long we should persist was measuring from the first connection uh to the server as opposed to the last connection the most recent connection to the server so we were maybe timing out a little bit sooner than we should have been in the in the algorithm described there so review of that nature if anybody else wants to take a stab at it was always welcome it's easy to get these things subtly wrong and people who"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "have experience implementing uh can probably identify places where where we got it wrong better than somebody who's just skimming the draft so we definitely hope to see more implementers on that note next slide please um powerdns recurser has announced that they are basically implementing uh this approach for adot that is authoritative dns over tls i don't know that it exactly meets the draft but their approach is what they all quote just try it which sounds a lot like this i'll also note that the the authoritative server for the powerdns.com zone is also offering dot the draft itself is agnostic about a dot versus adoq that is authoritative dns over quick so some folks might be interested in trying to do adoq as well we encourage implementers to try that i will note that after i wrote these slides but before i stepped up here i noticed that a.n.s.facebook.com is answering on tls on port 853 it may or may not be authenticatable if you're using a standard tls stack but again that's fine for the purposes of this draft so if you're running an authoritative a recurser and you enable this you might be able to encrypt all the connections that go to facebook so that might be something interesting to be able to note um we're looking for other implementers to stick their head up and say hey i tried to do this it worked for me it didn't work for me this is what we ran into we want to ensure that it doesn't overwhelm authoritatives so if you're an authoritative and you're seeing these queries you want to report back we'd love to hear from from you as well i i just want to ask if there's any implementers in the room who maybe want to start working on this please step up and let us know because we'd like to see more than just peter out there working away in the corner sort of quietly sort of sort of think thank you sir thank you tim okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "oh so are you speaking up here been offended at nilmar labs dkg we will talk with each other about our plans and how we can collaborate and help you yeah great thank you [Music] punitsu the google public dns so i haven't really read the whole draft i'm just reading it while in the add session we do implement some version of unilateral probing we have to see how much our implementation is different from what's specified in this traffic great uh i'd love to hear feedback from that and again the strap is not claiming to be perfect and uh feedback from the implementers who have experience are welcome obviously uh coming from google public dns you have a different scale of uh implementation than than somebody who might be implementing it on a you know an office network or something victor uh victor de carnegie google public dns i'm looking for operators of authoritative servers who will share preferences particularly around their tls tuning are they looking to do tls resumption do they strongly want it do they support it any feedback on you know the experience with timers idle and the like i want to hear about tuning please get in touch uh especially if you have uh dns servers behind load balancers i want to hear how that works with a dot all that sort of stuff thank you yep and all those details are details that i would be happy to include in the draft if you're comfortable with them being public but obviously also if you want to talk to people privately that's that's that's good too right no i'm not operating an authority of servers i don't have anything to share no i'm not asking you i'm not asking you victor to share it i'm actually i'm i'm i'm trying to amplify your your requests because i think that information would be very useful to have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "paul hoffman paul hoffman co-author for the people in the room who haven't read it or haven't been reading it carefully the last discussion we just had is actually not that relevant that is the draft says if you're a client go ahead and try and do these things we believe and if we're wrong we certainly want to hear if you misimplement the client side of the draft you're not going to hurt anything you may have some extra delays and such but you're not going to be hurting any authoritative servers if we're wrong let us know but so the whole thing of you know the the the whole part of this is that there doesn't have to be coordination if you're going to do authoritative authenticated later there of course has to be coordination but for now what we want is a document that says even if you've gotten you know this wrong about remembering and stuff you're probably going to have negligible or literally no effect on the authoritative servers so if if you're an authoritative server operator reading the document and we've done anything that you think could affect you negatively by all means let us know because we would like to pull that out this is supposed to be harmless yep and as a reminder the document also offers guidance to authoritative server operators as well in terms of how you probably want to configure your systems and so if you're implementing this on the authoritative side and you think that that guidance is lacking or insufficient or wrong or you think it's good we'd love to hear from you so yeah next slide thanks uh outstanding questions in the draft there's a handful of fix me's that are related to error handling uh mostly on the uh guidance for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "recursive resolver side um again i don't think that these need to be uh perfect uh but it would be good to give to some general results about the different kinds of errors you might be able to see um if you've got some strong opinions about how you want that to see want that to happen on a um on this opportunistic uh unilateral approach uh be good to receive some text on that there is a question about whether the document should be standards track as opposed to experimental or informational or something like that i think we are leaning towards standards track but we good to hear from the working group on that uh and there's some open questions about whether we want more explicit like visualization of the types of steps that we're expecting the resolver uh the recursive resolver to take in terms of how it keeps track of whether it thinks it's got a good connection or a history of good connections to a given authoritative so if folks are good at doing you know flow control diagrams or things and think they can do it draw draw some nice pictures that's always a welcome thing uh for implementers who to look at so come talk to me i've got some ideas about how we could draw those pictures but you might have better ones um so anybody who's interested in doing that kind of stuff too happy to have contributors next yeah so this is basically what i just told you there is a get lab repo that has some open issues on it a fairly short list of open issues at the moment if you want to take a look at those issues or you want to grab the doc and flesh out a fix me we'd be happy to take merge requests um you can also just of course send messages to the mailing list for anything substantive because it would be good to see the discussion there too um you know we're hoping to have a version of this with all the fixmes cleaned up before the next ietf and maybe we will get maybe we'll get an opportunity to ask"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "for a working group last call then but getting more feedback from implementers in the meantime would definitely be preferable i think that's what i've got um if folks have questions about the draft or or or complaints or gripes or whatever i think please come up to the mic line queue looks empty um thanks for the comments we have and thanks for the work you guys have you all have been doing on it so um please carry on so all right okay thanks y'all yep and that was it on our business i think brian finally showed up for the meeting which is just in time um so um we're actually unless you know mike's open if people have something to say please speak up you know except for you mr farrell everybody else is welcome to no um no thank you all and otherwise we're going to call this an early meeting i believe which we kind of figured it would be a short reading so thank you all for attending so thanks for all the comments thanks for all the work folks i didn't is you"
  }
]
