[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "that's why i wear sandals that's why i wear sandals and a skirt but i guess that's not really an option but um could be as if i don't so we need a volunteer note taker my normal suspect is probably running his own meeting who was that that was me aaron gable oh there you go we'll take it um i've put the agenda in it you can just plop the notes wherever you want in that mess we'll fix it all right you think we can go y'all every time we try to unmute myself the mitako warns me that i'm local and that it might be causing the feedback okay welcome all to the acme meeting at ipf 114 see that only i'm wearing an acme shirt right but let's get on with it so this is a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "notewheel i'm sure you've all seen it plenty of times so we'll not dwell on that too much specifically for itf 114 in-person participants make sure to sign the session using the meet echo you take a light that's easy to do by scanning the qr code at the door and use mitecho to join the my microphone queue and keep audio and video off if you're not using on-site version and wear masks unless you're actively splitting at the microphone and this is something regardless of how we feel about it this is something we all agreed when we signed up for this meeting so wear your masks and make sure audio and video are off unless you're sharing or presenting and use the headset is strongly recommended for remote participants yeah like i am okay so agenda got the metacall so this is our own specific agenda we'll do the note well already done technical difficulties we so far haven't needed to do that and then you miss trivia we already got to note taker and we'll do the document status then we'll talk about uh current work items which are um detailing node id and ari which is not really a current torque item because we haven't adopted it yet but we'll talk about that as well and then there's potential new work from brandon weeks and the agenda bashing before we continue good so document status we don't have any new rfcs since vienna um acme authority token has a discuss from ben k deck since"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "november of 2021 new version zero eight from this month and what do we do then kadak is no longer an ad do you want to do that one and the one on the next slide at the same time john's here all right so okay acme client we have a new version zero five from april very light discussion on the mailing list and that's kind of par for the course and then we have um tnothlist current version is from 26th of march 2021 which i think is right from vienna there are three outstanding discusses and revised id needed and so sorry march 2021 which is over a year before vienna and then dtn node id is current version is from just before itf 113 waiting for write-up external parties since march of 2022 and we have a presentation today yes so we have john we have john at the mic how's it going yeah so we did try at least to deal with the discuss on the first of these documents on the the original authority token doc i know we have not gotten to the token t not list i'm not actually the editor of that one but like hopefully with this new zero eight version it's like better um i tried to fix what seemed to be the major discusses that were out there and even to address the majority of ben's comments so we still have work to do obviously on tnoth list and you know ben it's a very thorough reader we have like a ton to say about that doc that we need to get to and i will help the editors uh the editor of that to get that done so can i ask you who the editor of that is i think it's either chris or mary i'm not actually sure who last had the xml"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "for it but yeah chris or mary all right so we know who to chase now for that one yeah um because it's not you well i mean i can obviously do some work but i need like the source yeah yeah you know it was i mean it's really uh honestly it's probably more responding to ben's mail in particular that is the long pole in that tent because there's just a ton there's a ton of comments honestly when i looked at it some of it does spill over between the documents even a bit so like yeah there's there's actual work that needs to be done it's hard to get people to do actual work is it worth bringing this the document that you or the editor for back into the working group to get it reviewed because we don't have ben anymore um i mean i think the authority token document should be cool like in terms of what the it's the other ones the tnothlest one right you know if if we're in trouble i don't know if we need to bring it back to the working group and honestly it just is a matter of getting the cycles to do it and like definitely a revised idea is needed there's there's no no but somebody needs to review the updated 08 version right it's true i mean i assume the isg would review it at this point or yeah like in theory paul hoffman inherited these discusses but um yeah so a couple of observations first i think that i would be reticent to bring to do a different progression on the documents separately they're clearly you know intertwined and if something comes up and we advance one too far forward we're going to be in a pickle so i want to move them in in lockstep so even if we clear on the other one and we haven't cleared on this one like i'd want to hold it so i think part of it is i would need to revisit where we are but it looked like substantial changes were needed on the tf office based on based on the feedback so typically what we do when we have substantial changes we want to reconfirm consensus on the solution so what we don't want to do is reiterate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "in the isg because we still need to check with the working group that they're good with the big changes and then there's a judgment call there whether we got to go back to the community so my recommendation would be given that we're anticipating big changes on that the easiest way to do the consensus check and have a formal process to know where we are where we are instead of you know doing this kind of side consultation would be to bring it back to the working i mean sure obviously the working group should read it i think we want to bring the attention working group to the changes that have already been made to the authority token document and ask if everyone here is cool with what's in the zero eight of that i think that is something that's probably worth doing at this point i i definitely agree we should move these together that it doesn't make sense to advance the authority token document without tnothlist or vice versa and so i guess you know the question is do we want to start that process of just sending the list and saying like hey is everybody's still cool with what's an authority token now as of zero eight like or do we want to wait until tenochlis is also iterated and then ask the working group are both of those documents jointly cool but we i think that kind of can occur in parallel with the ihg's ongoing review that's right i what i don't want is for these things to literally be like you know go through a new pub wrath and a new like you know gen art and everything when they've already been to the isg well we actually do that all the time uh and i stare at it i guess um i i just don't know where the energy is so we're 15 months from the last version of that document so that gives me great applause i guess and given that i didn't hear kind of firm dates we're gonna we're committed to to hammering it kind of here you know at a particular time we are we sure about the editors we're not like maybe we'll track them down i'm concerned that we can close it it's been 15 months and that's the consensus check on primarily after i mean when it's been 15 months since we did it we have big kind of problems uh i i mean i'm kind of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "what i was hoping here is a lot of energy to kind of move forward because my gut is i'm not sure and that's why i want to bring it back so why don't i take an action to go back to the tnoth list authors and find out who the editor is who has the pen who has the pen and and give them and make them tell me how long it's going to take them for them to update the document once they update the document and reissue right then we drop them back down to the working group for a short period of time just to review them both in parallel and at that point we pop them if they're fine we just ship them up and and we're done right because we should clear the discussions on tn off and there are no there's nothing to clear on the other document the one that has all the ben comments on it yeah and so there's like one francesca thing or something that there is something from francesca but i don't remember what document that's on yeah on the token authority well she's not reviewing anything because yeah in terms of process just to make sure we have the names right uh the others are comments uh these are the blocking discusses and paul did uh take up ben's position so paul can help us right this results yeah uh mister well you know yeah right uh former chair uh sorry deb um president the tn stuff was def came to you know hope john correct me if i got a character if my memory is faulty but it came from the stir stuff and it wasn't really i mean the domain expertise is for the most part over there right so if it landed for more than a year um it was probably not purely the working acme working groups issue or concern and they might have fallen through the cracks because some of the people got busy and other stuff in stir i mean i'm happy to involve stir if we need to involve stir like i don't think that's a problem right john again i won't put myself back in the queue but yeah i mean part of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "issue is right that we ended up using some of this but not all of it in the way that we practically do certificate issuing here in the united states right first or shaken and like so yes and searching has become this whole thing it's like really huge and we're all super busy with it and so this this was is not front burner because we we need the token format and that's already written into some like addis documents under standards bodies things like it but we haven't seen a lot of uptake on actually using acne for this bluntly no i i'm not thrilled about that in the sense of we have like a short lived certificate story that we're building for stir that really should rely on acme for it to work and it would be a shame if we can't get that to work because it's one of the best solutions that you know we could really have to some of the more difficult um non-carrier stir shaken cases so it's like yeah because that the energy around it is sporadic right like i mean i'm not gonna you know try to sweep that under the rug it hasn't been critical path for us to get this done but you know in light of some more recent things that has injected some energy back into it especially because of the potential for doing short-lived which we need for something that i know chris feels pretty strongly about and i mean if you put me on the spot i'm pretty sure chris is the one that is supposed to or at least has the latest version of the source for this tnothless document so like i believe the energy exists to do it um again i can't i don't think i can make promises for when but like you know that's the situation so i mean we're happy to do the right thing for the for the situation right we just need to we need to get it going we need to get it going and that that's how i summoned the energy to do the document that i did right because i see this coming down the pike and i'm like okay this gotta get done and i had cycles to do that but not to intervene on this and do this one too and like if necessary i'll do this one too right at the end of the day um we could share the load to somebody else i mean there's like four authors on all these things and there's like no reason for one person to be doing all the work i know so all right so let's let's stick with unless sean's got a comment because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "sean's at the mic hello sean turner i will volunteer to review these drafts when you rest the xml from chris's hands and get it fixed oh you're the best so i think the plan is to to contact the authors of tnoth and find out or whatever we're calling that thing um figure out when we can get an update to that we'll bring them all both of them back to the working group for a two-week last call and we'll review it with the number of reviewers that we normally get in this working group um which is three possibly more than the number of authors of the document but i wouldn't count on that there's like four or five of those and then um push it back up again do you agree i'm looking at you off he doesn't know i'm looking at him though what do you think yeah that sounds good enough i mean one outcome is that the group has lost interest interest and we buried the documents i mean that's also a possible outcome if really there's no energy to write them i mean if this was really important for people then the original office not having energy would mean that somebody else takes the pen i don't see anybody else rushing to take the pen either so um well i guess it all depends on the current authors getting uh getting the energy to uh revise when we make that when we make that working glute last call we'll cc stir too while we're at it because that might get us a few more reviews right okay does that sound like a plan yeah okay good because we'd like to get this done right it needs to be yeah right it doesn't you don't need hanging over your head for the rest of your life right just saying okay so um two more things uh integrations went through working group last call not a lot of discussion uh question is are we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "ready to go ahead and sub domains just finished uh working with last call i think integration's had a handful of reviews um it's got some tie-ups with lamps in that there's a is my purchase in here no oh look at that um he's got a draft in lamps that needs to get adopted but i mean i guess that's not our problem right right okay so i say we push both of those okay and okay and then there was ari which we um had a adoption call and well when it was presented in vienna and uh the previous uh meeting uh there was a lot of enthusiasm in the room a virtual room at least and then we called for adoption and uh heard pretty much nothing from on the mailing list so yeah how do we deal with that well anyway we do have a presentation so we might uh want to delay the that discussion until today's presentation okay and with that it's time for acme detail nowadays right so there's brian yes hello oh you get this already we can hear you i mean you're just going to drive your sleds for you okay all two of them very short yes uh so go ahead to the next the real slide yeah yeah uh so the good news is that there has not been"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "since the last ietf these are really the same notes as before summarizing the last changes in the document the bad news is that there hasn't been any feedback or real progress so far on this um the uh the cose document is still in in off 48 which isn't a huge hold up um and the i don't have it on this slide but the the corresponding dtn document to add a missing iana registry that's needed here um is still being requested for working group adoption but it's also not a controversial thing uh any other working group so if you go to the next slide there is no next slide oh i'm sorry well uh the the last uh ietf uh ended up with this uh requesting uh a last call since there were changes in function changes in on the wire encoding on on this behavior for the uh the um algorithm agility uh but i have not seen anything since then so we asked for a last call right are we asked for a review what are we doing here roman yeah i'm just pulling up the way i yeah so we went to itf last call a bunch of things were kind of requested we made breaking changes in the protocol and i think the call on the list was can we confirm that people put eyes on those changes and we're good to go it's i think it's like a consensus recheck question because adam last call we did to make breaking changes like separating separating the bundle"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "so i think what would help us here is a couple eyes on it and say we're all okay with it and i will give it another look and then we can ship it and the main actual benefit of these last changes was to bring this behavior more into conformance with the rfc 8823 behavior so so this behavior logically um is that same workflow for those that don't the roman did it for those that don't track rfc numbers it's the email challenge to make it more consistent okay any comments in person we need reviewers we always need reviewers okay yes aaron i know that i'm one of the commenters who requested the changes to bring it more in line with the email validation and i'm 99 sure that i've looked at it again since then and it looked good but i will make sure that i take another look at it and send an email to the list as thank you thank you okay i don't have anything further then okay so we'll reiterate the request for review and look and see how many reviews you already had i think you had a couple right um and we'll see if we can't push this along great thank you thank you okay aaron uh yeah next slide um not a yeah hi aaron gable uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "this is the re ari uh acme revocation information draft uh it is currently at version zero three uh so one new version since last acme uh next slide um most of the changes here are pretty small a few people spotted some minor typos and we got those cleaned up uh there's some good discussion on the mailing list about why other solutions aren't viable solutions to the set of problems that this draft solves and so i updated some of the text in the introduction to better address those questions uh and clarified the suggested renewal algorithm uh next slide so this is just the one thing that is like actually slightly substantive uh the there's text in the draft that describes what a client should do with the information about its requested renewal window uh and previously it was phrased that the client must perform a specific set of calculations and then simply should renew at the time resulting from that set of calculations and some people i think rightfully pointed out that that's a kind of weird way to phrase it and so instead i've changed it to exactly the text that is on this slide which is that they must attempt renewal at a time based on the suggested window and we really recommend a specific algorithm for determining a time within that window um obviously i would like people to take a look at this slightly changed text provide feedback about it uh let me know if it makes sense if it seems like a reasonable way to standardize this etc but i think all of that will be part of just the the current round of document review"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "um next slide um yeah so next steps uh i just slightly updated the draft so i need to go back and update the current implementation uh to match the the very latest version but that's not hard at this point um and after the last ietf deb sent out an email asking for a call for adoption review and feedback and support for call for adoption there was a small amount of discussion on the list uh and i have addressed all of the feedback received from that discussion so far uh but i think the next big step is whatever the chairs want to do with the discussion that's happened so far that's all i've got so i think we need more review on this right when it does need when we ask for the call for adoption we need people to pop up and say whether they think it should be adoption adopted or not um so i think we're going to redo the call for adoption again and hopefully we'll get more people popping up and saying yeah we want this um um we had a bunch of people saying they thought this was worthy of adoption and when we made the call on the list there was like crickets yeah i think there was made one of the polls here i'm sure we would get uh like uh 10 people or 20 people saying yeah we should adopt this but then when you ask them the list nothing right i mean to be frank 20 people on anything on this working group so i would be happy for five honestly and there's 30 people in the room i really yeah there is currently uh support for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "adoption from two people uh melinda shore and peter thomason um and that's that's it on the list so far yeah all right all right so we'll remake that call for adoption hopefully we'll get a little more pick up this time since all the people in the room have heard now that we're going to ask for adoption mr saltz saying what we're saying is that uh don't assume that just because you said uh yeah let's adapt it to the meeting that it applies to the formal call for adoption yes rich yeah you could call for adoption here in the room and then post on the list if anyone objects can we do it that way yeah yeah that way so do you think we should adopt this draft well yes do we raise hands or do we do a fancy little vote thing you do the fancy thing yeah i found a show off hands too let me did you say to do a fancy tool a fancy little thing oh look at that okay because these polls don't appear in the youtube recording uh we're running a poll now that says should we adopt ari and so far we've had well i'll wait for the final results which declare i guess there's nobody voting against it yeah okay so we have more voting for it than we've had emails yeah so you've had 17 people raise their hand indicating that we should adopt ari and zero not raising their hand actively not raising their head which means that we should not trace so it's 17-0 for adopting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "ari right so as rich said i mean just go to the mailing list and say are there any objections given what looked like consensus from this meeting and i can give them a week or two weeks and let it roll okay cool that's easier because apparently it's easier to do it in the room than it is to do it on the left cool all right there is a reason why we're having these meetings well yeah okay yeah okay so thank you aaron any other comment okay so let's go on to the new proposed stuff yes brandon so you can come up and stand on the little pink and you if you want to take off your mask so it's up to you whatever you want to do you probably have to be near the microphone though well everyone i'm brandon weeks i'm from google uh just to clarify uh i'm on our security team and specifically our corporate security team so i do not represent any products whatsoever i have no influence over product direction next slide please uh tldr why am i here um this is a specification and it's relatively simple that combines the web authentication statement format which is effectively a key value pair where the key is a attestation format that it exists in a registry and the value is a format specific uh series of bytes with acme um the reason i care about this is this seems like an ideal way to issue client certificates for primarily things like laptops workstations and servers but i don't think there's any reason that the specifications necessarily be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "restricted to that i can someone could come up with a use case where you want to connect to the same server every time and for reasons that become clear in a later slide i'd like to call for adoption at this meeting if possible next slide please so why acme uh there's numerous uh certificate enrollment pro uh protocols um most of them are ietf specs however skep remains the standard for operating system vendors device management vendors cmp est cmc all of those specifications haven't really seen any adoption from operating system vendors while they might be adopted in networking gear um i don't know exactly why but they're most of them predate my professional career and we've seen no real adoption of them acme is incredibly well designed i'd like to say thank you to the authors this draft doesn't even really extend it that much because all of the extension hooks were pre-envisioned by the authors so it was relatively simple to combine these and acme has is really well supported across languages across platforms i don't believe that to be true for cmp est et cetera it's kind of hard to implement those in newer languages or depending on the libraries that you're allowed to use at your uh in your environment next slide please so what makes this a good time to do this um this is probably the first time we can say that most of the devices that are purchased and deployed at least in enterprise environments actually have a way to do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "a device identity at the station and the device can identify itself and speak for itself without users so on android we've had android kia station since 7.0 which is i think over five years old um apple introduced managed device out to station um this wwdc so on ios so that's kind of the major platform that has been blocking this from being ubiquitous it's not available on macos yet but hopefully it is some day someday soon chrome os has this the rats eat specification is attempting to build a standardized way of doing attestation uh statements that doesn't involve having uh four different five different uh specifications um and i would one day like to include that but today we have the formats that we have um and tpms is probably the most well known um and this is uh what's mostly used on linux windows and other operating systems that don't have proprietary attestation schemes next slide please um so web authent is already got mindshare as seemingly the de facto format for encapsulating and abstracting uh different attestation formats across vendors apple already adopted it in their uh apotest which is their anonymous attestation that is provided to app developers um and they've since adopted for their managed device at a station feature that is their non-anonymous feature for managed enterprise devices i've discovered this week that there's two other ietf drafts that were presented at 114 that also made independent decisions to use the same format um there's one for including"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "attestation formats in tls and there was another four uh essentially back porting this to cmp and est and existing uh like older certificate protocols um and like acme web authent enjoys fairly ubiquitous library support across languages and across platforms um almost like every vendor already had to build this for their browser so it should be pretty easy to integrate um into other parts of their platform next slide please hi everyone before we jump off that uh for anyone that was in lamps maybe shauna rich didn't we learn that after some discussion with the uh the designated experts for the web authent registry that the approach wasn't what we thought it was going to be for that lamps document you yeah got it you can't put what was intended in that registry yeah i believe the outcome was there are the attestation formats that are already defined in web offend there's an extensible registry for that exists already for formats that would make sense for the primary use case of web authent and we'll likely need to create an additional registry for formats that don't fit into like the actual web off and fido scheme i think there's another question hank where's hank hank's not here am um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:09",
    "text": "he's gone okay um so what is the the draft uh proposed changing um it adds a new challenge and that challenge encapsulates a web authen uh attestation statement format yeah we also have kathleen in the queue if you want her yeah uh go ahead kathleen can you hear me now okay yes i had asked on the list and i'm hearing a bad echo i hope nobody else is nope just you i'll power through it i had asked on the list and in the comments here for the working group to decide whether this should if adopted be combined with my client draft that already is adopted or if it should be separate it already adds web often as an authentication type to be able to or a challenge rather to be able to get a certificate so this is a little different but there could be a good bit i'm not sure what if this if the correct answer is a separate draft or being included i will say that the draft i'm proposing is fairly narrow it only works it's for devices it's not it doesn't touch certificates issued to users or authenticating users uh it doesn't touch code signing and it doesn't touch devices that lack the ability to attest their own identity"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "so this is a fairly narrow focus and the the web offend usage in the client certificate draft is around actually using the full web offense spec this is narrowly tailored to only using datastation statement format as an encapsulation for attestations the rest of web authent has is has nothing to do with this proposal but i leave that up to the working group chairs i think okay hank are you back i'm trying again is this working yes wonderful okay yet another device hi um so um i've been asked to come here so i'm swinging by um the lamps id says that they use cryptographic attestation in order to establish the provenance of a key that's fine but that is not what a tpm does in general that's just one of the tiny things that tpm does the gpm creates evidence about the system characteristics that can prove its trustworthiness which has nothing to do with the web off and also it does not do that but they're also not it's true that's not entirely true and two can do that optionally um which makes me happy to hear when you say that it's just about framing i'm putting the evidence inside and i think that's the term i want to hear here if you're talking about the authenticity of a device that's phosphory meaning it is doing exactly what is intended to do and nothing else um then i think you are absolutely go okay with saying um attestation evidence but uh please uh differentiate between the uh the web off and capabilities the fact that they say over 500 times at"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "the station and only mean it like four times i think between the tpm capability and uh and the other ones so just define are you creating assertions that are actually believable about the trustworthiness or are you really talking about key provenance which are which is part of the first but it's absolutely not the first but it said just highlighting that thank you that's helpful um tpms have many many things it can do in lots of options but what the rest of the attestation schemes actually do in reality is relatively simple they provide evidence that the key was generated in hardware and they provide uh an identity of the device that's associated with that um so for tpms to kind of exist side by side of these other attestation schemes we're really just using key certification um along with either the endorsement key or the platform or the endorsement certificate or the platform certificate to establish the identity of the device i think broader state attestation is kind of out of scope sorry for interrupting just state that up so don't use the term like at the station just state what you're doing like you just did and then mint the term in the context of your work that's fine you can call it grab it doesn't matter um the important thing is people understand what you're actually talking about and and think that's a big problem with throwing the term attestation around because it means nothing anymore if it you don't can't even say it's a if it's a procedure or a message so um if you're at that level i think uh really talking about the exact thing and defining it and then naming it is a better way around and then everybody would be happy and then you can tie android key to station and gpms and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "apple here to take whatever i do there and then that will make sense thanks how many thanks thank you for the feedback um so uh what is the actually contained in the extension uh it specifies a new challenge type um when this challenge type is presented to a client the client returns a web authentication statement format uh in the response payload the challenge response payload which is not done by any other challenge types anymore of today but the high level acme specification does have language around future specifications may do this um another way this could be done is involving an external verifier um where the acme server actually reaches out to the verifier um but based on discussions i've had most people seem to prefer the simpler method of passing data station directly to the acme server it also uses the acme specified key authorization as the nonce that's passed into the key generation methods of the various formats um and definitely open to feedback if this is the like the intended use of key authorization um ident i specify two identifiers um one uses the rfc 4043 permanent identifier to identify the platform um i also included uh a hardware module uh identifier that was specified in rfc 4108 however i've gotten feedback this week that this may not be the best idea uh the reason i put that there in the first place was if you imagine a tpm device uh tpm included in a device that doesn't have an issued platform certificate the that device is actually unable to prove the identity of the device it's only able to prove the identity of the tpm which is a different assertion than"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "would be made if a platform shift exists or with the other attestation schemes which do attempt to prove the actual identity of the entire device not just the security chip included in it i also added informative text around using external account binding for pre-authenticating requests to the ca in my experience most enterprise environments don't want to have uh except unauthenticated requests on the open internet so they're likely would want to include this in some form of configuration management um that's pushed down to the device before it um is able to prove its identity um next slide please do you want to take the question yeah ron was just going to comment that i did something similar in a proprietary implementation of a new challenge type with a challenge response that contained a um a jwt authentication token using the [Music] the d-pop work and that seemed to work quite well so that seems like quite a sensible thing to me so thank you good to hear it thank you so existing implementation um i created a fork of small step which is a uh not a fork per se uh patch series of patches a small step it's a open source golang ca um that along with a client that implements this for tpm at a station um and he also includes a tpm simulator in case you want to run this on a regular laptop the demonstration ca also later added support for apple's managed device at a station feature that they launched wwc the other major implementation of this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "is apple's ios 16 betas that uses this uses uh encoding including an acme uh web authentication statement in acme as the basis of requesting a certificate alongside skep and sending the private key plus certificate in a p12 payload or the other two methods they spot on older versions and not included on this version of the slides android has also put this on their roadmap to include alongside apple next slide please and uh now i have some questions uh for everyone um there's been some discussions i've had this week around um the the types of information that can be reflected into the client certificate that the ca has validated these would include things like the identity of the device the identity of the security chip the key generation properties key generation properties seem like a specifically controversial thing to identify that has a lot of complexity about what does harder backed mean what are the relative trust levels of a trust trust zone versus discrete hardware versus hardware on diverse hardware on a bus um and is this draft the place should be or is that somewhere else because that's a pretty hard problem it sounds like and the verification procedures this came up on the mailing list someone asked okay why would my enterprise ca trust any of this um each of the different attestation formats has various levels of quality of documentation the documentation where it does exist there's often asterisks and foot guns that if implemented improperly caused the system not to be secure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "[Music] and i don't believe there's any place this is really specified i think web authent has done the best cross attestation scheme attempt at documenting but i know there's issues with um like it's not complete with all of the the foot guns and asterisks does this belong in the the rats uh working group does it belong in this document does this document have any does this document stand alone without attempting to specify how you implement verifiers for each of these schemes in a secure and correct manner sean sean turner um so in full disclosure i am writing a draft and lamps about this kid station stuff over there so i'm basically supportive of this approach for the first one it seems like that is a hole that you could be buried in for a long long time did we just set up a registry and leave it alone make it first come first serve and knock yourself out so the mechanism is there to be able to specify what those things are and just punt completely because that would be an option to do that because if you're going to try to document all of them good luck you'll come back and you'll have a long gray beard like i do yeah um the verification procedures you have to put something in there right but if it's if it's really that complicated but again there's a bunch of different options i don't know how you write that right so then you end up in this hole of like if you do this and then you do this and if you did this then you're gonna use 12 other things so i'm not quite sure how to how to solve that one but the first one i think just maybe make a registry and call it a day yeah i think it's it's fairly tractable to document verification procedures until you try to do it correctly and then it gets very complex from there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "sorry q is mine um so i have a couple of comments on this um [Music] one is we need to make sure that this is actually all verifiable if um the acme or the ca that's issuing the acme certs or the relying party that then gets the certs can't be assured that the data in the cert is correct then we're going the wrong way if the ca can't tell whether the device i mean the device can't just say hi i'm a tpm without proof that he is actually a tpm right so you have to be able to validate that now it appears i've spent like 15 minutes reading this stuff it appears that android and a bunch of places have basically root cas that assert that these are devices that they have built so that's fine um [Music] within the realm of how trustworthy that is seeing that's another rabbit hole um [Music] so that was my my main when i first saw this my main concern was who's this who who gets to decide whether this is what it really is and i can't self-assert like self-assertion should not be possible oh my opinion um so that's that's part of it there was had another point what was it um i think you can't when you talk about key generation and the quality of key generation there's no way for a ca or of a lying party to know how well you've done key generation and you're back to basically self-assertion at that point there's no way for an acme ca to know that this tpm over there did it this way for real right i believe there is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "it's fairly key certification is not simple with tpms and there's again many ways to do it incorrectly but it is possible and can the ca tell it's been done incorrectly yes how um when you generate a key the the policy is encoded um in a string that is signed and verifiable so if the key is not generated in the expected manner so for example tpms allow key importation and they also allow key generation and you can actually tell the difference whether a key was imported or generated um it can it provides evidence whether it was rsi or ecdsa and if you if you're in an environment that has a attestation ca or a private cca that is willing to de-anonymize clients as is in an enterprise environment um the privacy ca can pass along the identifiers included either in the endorsement key certificate which identifies the gpm chip itself or the platform certificate which identifies the the combination of a tpm and a platform how do i know the tpm hasn't lied uh the the t like the tpm has an endorsement key certificate which is included um you do what's called credential activation and tcg terms to turn a decrypt only ek into a signing ak attestation key and the attestation key going forward signs actually signs the key certification data that is sent to acme ca so if you trust the tpm vendor you can trust yeah okay so there's um pitfalls here i think is probably the best way to say that i am generally untrustworthy of these things um so maybe i'm a little um and this is no hats by the way um this is just me um since monty is staying right behind i will pick on the trusted computing group a little bit um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "android chrome os and apple have implemented their attestation schemes in a way so for example apple's managed device attestation if it generates a key at all and it produces an agitation certificate that was generated in their secure enclave processor there's no other way to get so right so as long as the enclave processor is working correctly you're good if it's failed you're screwed right the trust in the the tpm monty wiseman by the way um the trust of the tpm is anchored in whoever signs the ek certificate which says who made the tpm that's really not any different than trusting apple to say the key and the t2s the same is good just in android that's really not any different than trusting infineon to make the tpm the only real difference is it's portable across platforms um so anyway i'm gonna go on the other the other topic the reason i came up here is i think a document like this is a really good place to put values you know maybe hardware i don't i'll make the same comment i made in lamps i think it's going to be hard with a binary assertion of hardware versus not hardware um but the distinction any distinctions we made about we make about quality should not go in here needs to go somewhere else otherwise it becomes exactly the same comment labs so we're gonna have to find a way to enumerate these somehow right to make any value assertion between a software tpm that's running in my process that i have happen to have an ek signed by something on my platform and an affinian tpm or something else we have to find some way to make a distinction between those something like this doesn't need to worry about that we just need to have some value that somebody else"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "decides not this one yeah i tend to agree given that there's going to be three different documents that specify for for tls for uh the right three at least three documents i think i heard a fourth that's gonna need it so yeah yes um aaron yeah uh having having read the stock when it first went out on the mailing list i i think it's completely appropriate for this document to not specify exactly what the ca is supposed to do in order to determine whether it trusts the attestation that it receives because that's a matter for like five different documents because it is very difficult the thing that surprised me was that this document didn't talk about that at all i was expecting a paragraph that was like and when you receive the key attestation you should make sure that you trust it via informative reference to some other set of things that might be useful instead it was just like the ca gets the attestation back and is good to go and i was like i am very confused now um so so some sort of reference to the fact that this is a hard problem and ca's need to do it correctly would be very appropriate but i don't think it should be fully specified yeah here totally agree i appreciate the feedback and i'll definitely add that um i think i ended up basically writing the informative text out on the mailing list anyways so i think i can just put that in the document hi yeah i agree that there's a lot missing in the document like there's no um um no example of the uh um posters get with the new identifiers but that's fine and it's really a zero zero um version so yes carl"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "carl are you still with us i was just going to say on the second question here um um well i thought so maybe you don't hear me no we'll see you we hear you too so you're good there's a terrible lag so i'm just i'm just going to speak okay um the verification procedures have to be in a separate document that's all i was going to say over okay thank you so um so you have some open questions for us we have an obvious question for you are you seeking adoption yes i am um in consideration of vendors already beginning to support this um i would love to get as much feedback about bachelor encoding of the requests as soon as possible um i think there's been broad interest on the mailing list for someone to write something whether it be an existing draft or a new draft um it does seem like people are attempting to use kieva station and acme and cmp and est and tls and seems to be a very prominent topic this year okay so that of course we'll go on the mailing list um so uh thank you so we're out of time how did we do that it was supposed to be short yeah we used the time exactly i mean we even have 30 seconds for any other business which i guess we're all getting back okay thank you all right enjoy the rest of your eye more physically in london yes please thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:13",
    "text": "both carl wallace"
  }
]
