[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:17",
    "text": "hello hi Watson how are you good all right it's 12 so we'll go ahead and get started I expect this will be pretty brief um as a um reminder this is the ntp working group um here is the not well that you will have signed uh or you will have agreed to anytime you uh participate in an ietf meeting if you have any questions about any of these processes or procedures uh please feel free to reach out to did or myself or to Eric Klein our area director uh Eric is busy today so he will not be able to be here um couple General uh ad uh administrative notes uh the draft minutes will be taking in taken in the online notes Tool uh please help to ensure accuracy and completeness um that is linked from the data tracker page for this meeting uh and dit just put the link into the chat uh one notice uh one thing that I noticed was that uh we did not do the transfer for the December meeting we did not move uh the minutes into the we did not upload the minutes so they're in the the notes page for that meeting but they're not they have not been copied over as the final minute so we'll take care of that after this meeting um htio did you want to speak"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "how you have gotten out of the que uh the second thing is please use the Q tool um this is a small group so you all know that uh please be clear concise and respectful and act according to the ietf code of conduct um this is our draft agenda for today it's going to look suspiciously familiar a lot like the one from last time um are there any um is there any agenda bashing okay um with that the um first topic is the uh document review status uh it hasn't changed too much since last time I do have a quick question on the first one updating Registries I see Rich that you've joined us uh we've gotten a question from Eric on are we ready now to I know there was a number of changes made of all of the changes that were requested uh been Incorporated and are we ready to proceed to The Next Step hey I remember to unmute uh yes as far as I know everything's been done I it's I I believe it's ready to go forward okay um that was the question I received from Eric I was pretty that was correct thank you um the enterpr prise profile is ready to proceed and Kronos is still with the RFC editor uh so those are all of our documents that are beyond the working group at this stage um the next item on the agenda is the ntp over PTP working group last call results um there does appear to be uh uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "so I I guess I'll start with Mar I saw that you've made some updates is there anything you'd like to say uh yeah there is a new version uploaded most of it uh was the changes suggested by Martin uh there is one suggestion that is not included and that was to describe if the fields are ban I'm not sure if this is a thing that's commonly included in the in documents when it's the usual begin the end I think normally and exception to that would be only described but I'm not sure and the other changes yeah that was the the organization specific ID so the the the tlv is now using a a specific value that's used for organization specific tlvs and the sub type is included in that that means the tlv is longer by eight octets and we need a new registry for uh this use of the um Ayana uh organization ID for PTP messages I I haven't seen any registry for that I think this would be the first use okay um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "I I missed on the the com you got your open ID your oid question um resolved uh on the issue of a registry uh we need to establish one for this is what you're saying yes I think so um I put a request in the document to create this registry I'm not sure if the request is formally correct if anyone could look at it and let me know if it's wrong okay we'll take a look at it um so in your opinion all of the comments that have been received have been addressed properly uh accept the the comment on about the big Indian uh description if the fields in the PTP header needs to be described as big Indian yeah and there was another comment from ol uh if the wording in the introduction is optimal I guess I'm not very good with the language so I would welcome suggestions from others what's best yeah yeah actually I um I I saw his comment on the uh use packet encapsulation instead of packet is encap encapsulated as opposed to um um protocol being encapsulated and I think he's probably I think he's right I think it would be clear if you just substitute packet for protocol protocol for packet for protocol"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "um okay um so that just leaves the uh the question of of the indianness um you want to proceed without that [Music] change I don't know what others think I haven't seen that like in any draft I remember like I think the network in DNS is the default I don't know anybody else have any thoughts very quiet grap this morning um all right um with that I I think the working group last call results I mean it's a small working group so it appears that there is consensus to move forward with this document does anybody disagree with that all right so uh deor and I will um will send an email stating that consensus to the working group all right any other questions on this [Music] document okay uh so the next document is the T pv5 requirements um there has been"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "some more discussion about that one do you want to speak to the status of that please James uh yeah so I took in the feedback from Kristoff and uh Ira or era apologies for butchering the name um I've published the changes to the GitHub repository but I was hoping to have any further feedback or at least acknowledgement that things have been addressed before publishing a new version uh and um I've receiv received radio silence yes um does anybody on on this call have any feedback for James um and looking over all the comments that were received it seemed that there was two categories there were ones that were disagreements with the um particular parts of the content of the document and then there was the comments about uh whether or not this should be document should be published um I would like to proceed right now under the assumption that we're going to try and publish this document um and get feedback from the isg I Know Rich you were one of the people who specifically commented that um you didn't think it should be published um I guess yeah maybe it doesn't have to be published right the drafts are always going to be available and I've seen other cases where requirements documents have just been left as drafts that were parked so um because then I think you don't have to worry about updating it when we make some other decisions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:04",
    "text": "I I guess part of what I'm concerned about is this this working group has a hard time getting to documented consensuses and I was hoping that this document would drive us in that direction know that's a really valid point and if you think it is driving then you know if you think it's helping to get there sure all right um David sorry I started speaking with I turning on my mic um I was wondering uh I I I agree with you on the point I think it it actually would be good for us for the most part to just bind us to a certain amount of the consensus so that we can avoid sort of the repeated cycle of the same points coming up again and again uh I was also wondering uh whether there is any documentation of the rough consensus on the whether or not we should be splitting off the algorithms from the normative part of the specification as the requirements documents in this current state suggests we are going to do so there wasn't as far as I'm aware and this is going back a few years so um there wasn't any formal sort of working group consensus call made the decision or at least the reason why I put the text in there is that it came from several discussions on the list but it also came from an old wiki page on the old track Wiki that had listed out and this was done by a few people in the working group a whole bunch of things that uh could should be addressed in ntpv4 um and one of one of the things that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "in other bits of work was that yeah this is something we should probably look at at separating out so um yeah we haven't got a formal consensus call on it uh because I don't think it's been there hasn't been too many people that have vly objected to it but there has been a few discussions in the past where we've gone that that's an that's a good idea we should probably do that because the idea of algorithmic sounds like a good good thing yeah and we um under the uh I mean when the working group was originally chartered to work on ntp before the original plan was to do was to split the protocol from the algorithms um but for a number of historical reasons that ended up not happening um so we haven't done a formal consensus call so if people object to us doing that it would be um we haven't done formal consensus calls on a number of things we've only done them on the things that seem to be the most contentious so we need people to identify what they believe to be items we should discuss further and establish formal consensus on yeah so the reason I'm bringing it up again is because it it's this seems at least to the people from the reference implementation to be a contentious subject and I'm a bit afraid that if we declare consensus without doing explicitly something on this that they'll be all over the follow on stages pointing out that there is no that that that there is no consensus here on this and that they vly still disagree uh which at at some point that's going to slow us down"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "a Counterpoint one could make is that by agreeing to the consensus cause of adopting this document which contains that and and several other points in addition to the consensus of it the document progressing that is uh uh basically an acceptance of you know consensus of it as it is contained within the document but that that's you know things with ants right uh if that's sufficient I'm happy with it but it's just I'm a bit worried about that yeah um I I think you are valid to be worried about it um I'm but again I was hoping this this part of the reason for doing this requirements document is if everybody agreed to the requirements document then at least things that are in the requirements document shouldn't be argued about going forward yeah I know that's a a little bit of you know there there will still be arguments going forward but anyway all right um so what are next actions what are what what are the next actions I've got changes that could be rolled into another version uh that could happen at when whenever okay um do you have a set of changes that you're waiting that that are you said you have a bunch you have some some in the GitHub repository right so it's in GitHub I could literally push out a new version now uh uh to data tracker but I have held off up until now until I received feedback so we could either wait wait for that feedback do uh or just hit hit the button or wait and do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "the do it after I or during iesg or what whatever I take you lead yeah I I think um there was enough discussion um on the mailing list that um I'd like to push another version uh internal to the working group before we put it to the iesg okay shall I do that now yes please okay [Music] um okay so uh updates on ongoing working group efforts um marav do you have any npv 5 updates no updates I'm waiting for the requirements to be agreed on Are there specific requirements that um are impacting that draft I mean they all obviously impact it but um U I'm not sure okay seems to me that some people are completely against this um this design and want to basically uh be fully compatible in both ways with ntpv4 so in that case I don't see a point calling it NT pv5 and we can specify a new extension field for ntpv4 and which would contain all the improvements from what we have so far I don't know um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:04",
    "text": "so what you're saying is we could do a extension field with ntpv4 and satisfy the the constraints of the people that don't want it to be yeah I think so well I feel the messages would be longer like it would be some waste but it could work I think um this is where I really need implementers and many manufacturers to speak up I really um we can try doing a working group discussion and consensus call on you the two options um all right any other thoughts no oh I don't see you in oh you are in the queue I'm sorry David yeah so on uh the implementation side uh um I think the current anpv Force spec and how it's formulated contains a number of landmines that I would really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "really like to get rid of um where people can easily make an implementation that is just problematic to say the least um easily exploitable to points that hopefully in the next few weeks I'm actually going to demonstrate uh for those who still don't want to believe that um but things like the fact that we using transmit time stamps basically it's the only unique identifier stuff like that I think it's worth going through the end pv5 process just to get rid of those traps for new players because we still have current actively maintained actively widely used implementations that do very very make very very poor decisions around this um systemd time Sy D is one of the big examples here uh um and if we don't fix that in a new version of a spec that is going to happen until basically the end of time right on the more positive note by the way um I have uh we have two uh servers running our experimental implementation right now that are on the open public internet I'll push an email to the mailing list for with the addresses for those who want to experiment with those all right thank you very much Watson uh Watson lad AI I've been out of the ntp implementing game but I do agree with David there's a lot in ntpv4 that needs revision especially to help implementers make the right choices I think you know V5 is a valuable effort and uh hopefully it encourages us to continue with it Kristoff yeah just for the sake of it I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "I completely agree I think there is a strong argument that we actually need a V5 that is not fully compatible what's compatible with V4 because V4 has problems that need fixing okay um with that discussion we will uh continue with the requirements document for now and we'll talk to a few other people and see um uh so any other comments on npv 5 efforts nope excellent uh so uh rough time do we have any updates on rough time the update is that I haven't updated the draft yet um so my plan is to add in uh the extension to signal for the client to Signal the servers key and that's sort of necessary if you want to rotate the servers you have rotate the keys um I think with that change I I know that people have implemented I don't think there's much in the wire format that will need changing after that um probably a good number of text changes will be needed but I think we're getting to the state where i' i' want a rough last call after I upload a new version with the new extension okay um the final um ongoing work effort um is NTS for PTP um Martin is not available today but he did send an update um and I have just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "forgotten exactly what he said but uh hold on a sec um I have to find it I think the short version of his update was that he uh sorry can't do two things at once uh if if I can just speak for him um that would be fantastic thank I think part of is like he's still he's still implementing it um he's also writing I know that he's writing on on the next version of the draft um the thing that probably most interests this group in this meeting is that he would like to soon um move it from an individual effort to a working group effort he's targeting that for soon um okay that would be very good thank you uh and like I said he did send an email I just uh it's in another window somewhere um so uh David sorry I need to check something in the email first okay I have I have the email open actually from Martin uh sorry additional detail what he saying is that there will be an update in two to three weeks and then he would like to move forward to um okay Bas on that version to to working document okay sorry for Interruption no problem that sounds good um while um David is looking up something in email oh he has no question great uh so the next thing is uh any other business Way Forward uh Beyond future future meetings does anybody else have any other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "business all right uh so D turn and I were looking at the calendar um I think as long as we keep these calls just to what has uh been done I'd like to go ahead and continue having them because we don't uh we struggle a little bit to stay on task if we don't get together every so often um I have um I moved this call a little bit later to uh uh accommodate Harlem um so maybe if if people don't have any um uh opposition to this time i' I'd like to keep it here for another meeting or two to see um if this is a better time for people um I will note we are a little bit lower on attendance and normal so I'm not sure if it's because it's January or if it's uh because it's later time so if anybody has any concerns about the time please feel free to send it to us um the uh plan right now is to go ahead and have a another virtual interim on the 22nd of February at the same time I'll get the announcement out for that um apologies for the link not being in the agenda I probably should have sent an updated one but um the thing is when you put you have to have your agenda to do the meeting request but the link you don't get the link until after the meeting request is done so I need to go back and update the agenda or send out the link or something um but they are are always available under U on the data track or under meetings and then upcoming meetings that has all of the upcoming Inns for all of the working groups for the ietf Karen yeah can you open a bug report on the data tracker about that inconvenient workflow I could but I'm sure they have other things to do Robert will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "prioritize it but you know it is a real inconvenience all right yes sir um so uh the plan like I said the plan for our next meeting is the the 22nd of October of October geez 22nd of February the um uh oh Martin Martin arrived just after we talked about his documents hi Martin um the uh the question we have is whether or not to schedule an in-person meeting for Brisbane um and uh I'm looking for some feedback on uh people that would be in the neighborhood or be willing to uh participate on Sydney time or risbon time um I will be in person um I believe Rich will be there um Watson I'm not sure about you um I will sadly not be there Sly okay um is anybody else from this working group going to be there in person so it is it is at a time that's not terrible for um Europeans is that right David or you're just willing to get up at any time of day I'm just willing to get up at any time of day for this it's probably going to be be just about the most awful time for me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "anyways but I will yeah okay um all right well we will put a question out to the mailing list um I just um personally I I don't um I I'm not I don't want to have a meeting where I'm the only one in person or myself and Rich are the only two people in person um it would seem to be easier to do at a more convenient time for everybody um all right anything else uh very quickly Karen I published a new version oh okay great uh what now um what now that was quick uh let me take a quick read of it uh and I'll send a note to the the mailing list um I feel like our working group last call was not quite definitive enough on consensus um okay so what I want to do is to uh address the the discussion points I mean I don't think there there's some points we're not going to be able to satisfy um but I I think I need to be able we need to be able to write up a clear message of what is satisfied and what's not so I just read over if that's okay with you that that's absolutely fine for for as long as it's clear what's going to happen next yeah no I I can understand that we are trying to be clearer about what happens next keep this thing moving um okay so uh anything else no any other comments all right thank you all very much and um I will see you in a month virtually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:11",
    "text": "for"
  }
]
