[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:46",
    "text": "okay we will go ahead and get going um this is I believe the first time that we've used meet Echo for a virtual meeting so things are going to be a little bit different [Music] um I hope you all have tested your audio in advance um so with that um there is a notes page um you go to the I just sent out the link to the upcoming meetings page that has all of the icons for the various things that you might need for this meeting um including the notes page P um D if you wouldn't mind putting the link into the chat for the not for the notes page so people can see it um yes I will do that um so with that um this is an official iatf meeting all of the iatf policies that are documented in the not well um that you have um all of you look to be familiar participants so I know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "that you are aware of the note well uh please if you have any questions regarding any of these policies or processes uh please contact D or or I or our ad Eric um just a couple of admin notes um we will be taking draft minutes in the online notes tool so uh please help uh contribute to make sure that they're accurate and complete um this has uh turned into the fast way for us to get our minutes published so um we would appreciate people contributing uh blue sheets will be managed by uh the fact that you've signed into this meeting via meet Echo um so we don't need to do that separately uh we do have a Q tool which is uh the raising of the hand in the bottom bar um so please use that um also be clear concise and respectful and please act according to our ietf code of conduct um this is the agenda that we put out um and Our intention is to primarily focus on two working group last calls that we recently had and then to check to see if there's any ongoing uh updates on ongoing work items um and David I see you're in the queue go ahead yeah um I wanted to ask it's I know I'm a bit late with this and I should probably have sent you an email beforehand but if it was possible to have a short maybe five or 10 minute discussion as well on uh NTS Pool Stuff uh we're from our side we've been working on a prototype on that sort of stuff and I want to know whether people are interested in taking it into the ITF or not at all at this stage um we can absolutely add that um and we'll"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "um we'll put it towards the end but thank you for that I think that's an important topic it's one of the big barriers to NTS deployment so um okay are there any other agenda bashes no okay so um with that um we have three documents that are currently beyond the working group at this stage uh updating the ntp Registries uh you will have seen that Rich has done a number of updates and Corrections um and I believe this is ready for the uh Next Step Eric and I think it is in your um I think the next hold on one second I believe the next step is you but um that could well be a haven't had a chance to catch up since uh since Prague yeah it's just recently been published so yeah um but so that one is uh waiting for ad approval of the changes that rich made very recently um the second one is the Enterprise profile this has uh two um two things that it it has been updated uh it has been updated to address Eric's comments and so at this stage Eric needs to review it and I need to do the I need to update the shepher right up so there's two outstanding topics on that one and Kronos has passed beyond the isg and is now in the RFC editor Q um any questions on any of these documents no um oops wrong direction all right so with that um we're going to switch to the ntp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "over PTP working group last call results um there was a late breaking set of comments on this um and there was also not a lot of comments on it so um the um I am inclined to I know that the comments just came out four hours ago marov I don't know if you have any if you want to comment on the comments that you've received uh yes the suggestions looked good to me I think we can make it okay um this working group last call received um it really only received three responses uh I would what I would like to do is to extend it for one week and uh encourage some of the other people in the working group to respond um there has been no opposition to the publication of it um but I would like to see a little bit more response uh in particular from the 1588 Community um so uh is are there any questions or comments on the working group last call I don't see Doug on this call he's usually here um I believe you also asked a question about an organizational ID for U the ietf and Doug was going to look into that so we will have to um wait on that any questions or comments on this one for those of you on the call who have not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "commented on the mailing list it is very helpful to the chairs if you if you review and respond to these working group last calls um we really need to be able to document that we have working group consensus and uh crickets does not really equal working group consensus it's a short document um and so I would I would appreciate people taking a quick look so the action out of this meeting is we will extend it for one week um um any questions or comments uh go ahead David yeah I was just wondering uh how you came to the number of three approvals I counted four last time uh so maybe there's something wrong with the mailing list in this case or oh sorry I didn't uh I didn't notice the one that you just did three hours ago sorry little bit late so thank you David there are four people who have commented on it realizing this is of course a small group um yeah I stopped at the one with actual comments so um and Ira go ahead um I just wanted to say apologizing uh ntp uh work group last calls were actually my uh high priority for next week but next week will be the first quiet week I've had in six months without a break of iso and SAE and ITF and trusted Computing group specs and reviews and meetings ah well um it has been a very busy period but thank you we look forward to your review um so we will we will extend this to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "um and we'll just extend it to next Friday and I'll send a few private emails to see if I can herang a few more people I would suggest extending to the end of the year given that quiet week some people actually get something done between Christmas and New Year I guess the difference between end of next week and December 31st is not that much so we'll go ahead and extend it to December 31st thank you um that does of course me and I expect to see some quality reviews in that time so the um next topic then is the NT pv5 requirements working group last call uh this was an informational document to help guide our work um there has been a fair amount of discussion on the mailing list [Music] um is J okay James is here okay good uh James do you want to comment on what you believe the next steps for this are uh I'm uncertain as to what the next steps are okay um well we have gotten a fair amount of response to this one I think all of the uh there there are a number of edits to be done uh there is only one person who has spoken in opposition to it um and I have not fully parsed that whole message yet um go ahead David yeah I just had a question on the opposition um so far there seems to nobody seems to have reacted to it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "um it primarily seems to be um a return to the the Viewpoint of we shouldn't we should be controlling basically the entire ecos system which as far as I can tell over the past few meetings is not quite where the consensus is but I'm not sure if we have enough consensus to just already to just say that out loud right now uh and as a response when we when we eventually send this on to the I iesg I can provide an in-depth um rottal in the mailing list if that's desired but that might open up a bit of a bare pit of a discussion with Harlem again I'm not sure we want that if we already have consensus um so let's let's let's separate the two sets of responses that we have we have the response from Harlen which is a hard no uh and then we have the response from Kristoff which is a number of edits um and some questioning on tone and intention of the document um go ahead James I I I what I haven't been able to go through the emails that Kristoff has sent today I just haven't had the time for it but the the problem that I face with it is an an ongoing lack of clarity of what would have what is being proposed to be changed in order to uh uh address the concerns some of the some of the concerns are suggestions of reopening the discussions that have long since concluded and some of them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "are just small knits that of the inclusion of a an additional word here or there which I'm not uh objected to this there's quite a lot of things that that need to be addressed and at the same time I'm also a little bit concerned that if we spend a lot of time work a lot more time working on this um this is time that we could have been spending uh helping Miroslav and the actual protocol specification itself get over the line so I'm I'm really if there's anything I want out of this is to if there are valid changes that need to be edited and again I haven't gone through the emails from this morning then we we I think we really need to time box them down is to not open up the the bear traps of discussions when we could be doing something more productive right um Kristoff do you um do you want to comment on your set of comments at all do you have any uh sure I hope my audio is working hello everybody Chris was speaking um yeah the the set of emails that I sent out today it's a bit peace mail I'm a bit distracted these days um but I hope I like I covered I think 80% of the the things that need covering I I mostly forgot um to comment at all at on on my like nits with section three um but with everything else I've really tried to um boil it down to kind of concrete suggestions I think in most cases honestly a sentence here or a sentence there uh clarifying is is really all I would need to say okay this is this is clear enough um like in effect I think that should clear most of it up um I want to remind all of you that there's also been a comment by"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "Daniel um which is not really a hard no but kind of a strong doubt about um the way going forward just like for the record um yeah I I think like Martin and I could both also work on like whenever it's not clear what we want we can definitely just Supply text that we suggest that we think would be better um I'm also I'm also seeing in some cases that yeah maybe it's maybe it's better to not open the discussion back up where we just already have consensus even though in at least one case I kind of strongly doubt that what we are noting down as consensus is really what the working group is like is converging on right now but like maybe it is and and really James you should know better than I in in that case so yeah definitely those none of those I I will make blocking issues for myself some of the editorial stuff I would really like to get in before um this goes to isg okay um I should probably do the caveat that I don't think Martin or I will have just time to have all the suggestions ready before the end of the year um yeah this is a regrettable just effect of the matter go ahead Ara I wanted to comment I meant to write an email yeah in what tower um on the uh already comment on the um wide use of conformance imperatives that is required must um not just should um in an informational document um and why the document isn't actually called npv 5 design requirements and not merely"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "requirements um because I'm very concerned about the use of musts um in and required in an informational RFC I I believe it there's a strong ambiguity there about how how heavily that constrains the eventual protocol which I don't think it ever should I think it should recommend with shoulds but I don't like the use of must that's my comment David yeah I had a question for Kristoff around his comments am I correct in uh in reading your emails that your main point of concern around consensus is around the leap second stuff right yeah yeah so just to then maybe give a quick comment on that in hopes of saging some of your fears is uh we've been uh as an implementor of ntp we've been working on implementing also that part um it's not that far along yet in our implementation in principle with the design decisions we've taken right now in the in anti pv5 which is basically to just all make this a part of the time skills system so just a general system where you can choose to provide other things than UTC I that that feels like something that a lot of people have converged on as a decent solution last I've talked to people about it and it seems to solve all the requirements that we set there as well and it doesn't seem too honorous to be honest yeah sorry maybe I said yes too too soon um my concern is around the noted consensus on specifically leap smearing is that also covered and and do you think that's like not a big deal as far as you you've"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "seen because that seems like it might come back to bite us that we we make a bunch of Provisions to like support leap smearing which I'm I'm not a fan of but this is personal opinion um and also it could just be abolished quite soon and then we still have a requirement or at least a a soft commitment to always supporting leap smearing and and have all clients always support the fact that some servers might be smearing others might not and that seem like a whole bunch of complexity um that maybe we won't want to support in I don't know five or 10 or something years maybe before NT pv6 um and that we still kind of have to because we said we would uh oh I think that that then we might have a misunder understanding of what we mean by supporting leap smearing so for me and how I read the spec is that supporting leap smearing is means that we can a identify that it's happening so that a client that receives leap smar time can identify it and either ignore it or use it as it wants essentially which is what the whole time skill system does it basically allows a server to say hey uh watch out I'm providing you with leaps M time and any of the details beyond that are for the most part then an implementation specifics uh thing so what how you want to smear Etc uh where I'm willing to do the work uh to make uh um to standardize one of the most commonly used over the internet at least time skills for this namely what Google does um that's not that hard to specify out um but the software support could then be yeah you don't support that time scale and which is fine so I don't foresee the problems you for see there then I guess right I mean that that does kind of come my feel calm my fears um if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "like if a valid way for a client to adhere to that requirement that we wrote down is to just know when the server is saying that they leap smear and just then ignore the server then I guess that's really not a bunch of code um and maybe won't come to bite us or at least the bite won't be that bad sure that that that's a valid point thanks okay um well putting harland's comments aside for a moment um we will extend the working group Last Call on this one till the end of the year as well um and um I I I know Kristoff that that you and and Martin are quite busy but we we need to get uh um I I don't want to hold this up forever I'd like to get it moving so go ahead David yeah on that point and also to maybe uh unload James a bit if he feels that it's quite a heavy thing to go through all their comments I have some time tomorrow or next week I'm not entirely sure if it will be tomorrow but definitely next week that I could spend to just going over your emails uh and try to um summarize them figure out what the status of the various things is um which would maybe lighten the load on both Kristoff and James a bit I guess if that's wanted um I I I won't decline any offers for help um yeah for me the big problem here was just trying to gain Clarity"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "over what would need to be changed and and addressing the concerns in a timely manner um I've I've got time tomorrow as well to to uh have a look at this and to also look through the backlog of emails okay um I'm still like at least work and not on vacation until next Wednesday so anything that we've like kind of discussed beforehand I'm I'm sure I can also make time for a web call if like some clarification is is needed and then maybe we report on the maining list afterwards um maybe that can speed things up if you guys have time um yeah like anything that we can get done until then is of course great because after that I'm just on vacation until like way into the next year okay so um given that what I'd like to do is finish the rest of the agenda and um James maybe uh you and David and uh Kristoff can use whatever remaining time we have to go ahead and do some of that real-time discussion today if that's okay I guess you said you hadn't read the comments yet that makes it kind of tough doesn't it uh yeah I'd prefer to do this tomorrow when I've got a bit more time and it won't end up on YouTube okay oh that's that's also true I always forget about the YouTube thing all right so um that handles those uh the there is another uh there is an email from harlon which came in this morning uh who is opposed to this document I have not had time to review this email um I think [Music] um what I'd like to do is um Eric if I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:04",
    "text": "could if I could uh impose upon you to help um with a response to that it would be good sure go ahead and uh shoot me an email or something or we can sync up okay that would be fine um I'm sorry to not raise my hand um but there there is have any of you guys gotten the mail from Daniel as well regarding the NT pv5 requirements draft I'm noticing the one I got was only sent to me and I was just assuming it was going to the mailing list as well I I haven't I was actually trying to find it when you were speaking and I I haven't seen anything from Daniel so I will contact him and ask him if he wanted to send it to the mailing list and if yes then to please do that okay yeah that would that would be very helpful um I I would say with the the resolution of Kristoff's comments and with a Way Forward on Haron it seems to me that there's pretty good working group consensus on this document we just need to wrap it up um any other questions or comments on this document thank you for everybody who commented and thank you James for hanging in there with this um so we have three additional work items I was going to mention just to see if there was any if the authors had any updates that they wanted to provide I know that we're not that far off from the U um the meeting we had in at the beginning of November which was you know almost five weeks ago now kind of crazy um but uh marav do you have any updates on the npv 5 protocol"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "spec no update there was I think just one change in the G repository and okay um I'd like to remind people to please uh comment on this document on the mailing list that would be very helpful um uh do we have any updates on rough time yes so uh there's been some activity on the mailing list uh Chris Pat's gone through and found a bunch of infelicities and what I written um so I'll fix those sometime and submit a new version um but people should look at it and uh we we've we've made a lot of edits after uh San Francisco so it's the the introductory section's now been completely revised and all that stuff's already also happened so take a look because we haven't in a while uh David yeah I've been quietly looking a bit at that draft and we've also done some uh experiments in London around the the cryptography used um in that in the rough time stuff to me it feels like at the moment as a very complicated solution to what is in essence a simple thing and I was wondering a bit to what degree do we want to keep it as a fully separate time synchronization protocol uh which to me feels like Overkill and whether we should maybe also just discuss slash um further explore the options of making the cryptography used rough time that that seems to be its main feature um and and and just add that Bol that on MTP uh and and leave all the timing stuff uh with ntp instead of trying to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "manage two specifications for that but I was wondering a bit what people are thinking about that before shooting in an email and maybe letting the main list on fire again um yeah I know Christ is not here um but Christopher is going to get in the go ahead Christopher hi everybody uh I'm a little new to ntp um but I wanted to give like an implementers perspective um I I work at Cloud flare um and we deployed an an early version uh the the original Google version of rough time um we recently added support for the latest draft um I would I think I think I I'd like to see this draft stabilize and and get to RFC sooner rather than later because there are like a lot of there are real people using this protocol right now um and I'd like to I'd like I i' I'd appreciate it if if if if we if we have like a a consensus like this is good enough this is like not too complicated um that we can start stabilizing the draft um like I I I I would not I would not support like a big change of uh in Direction James um not to open a can of wor but one thing that's not withstanding is the ecosystem um in older there was a draft in the past that was a starting point for um if we're going to be trying to obser trying to observe Mal pheasants out in the wild in in some mechanisms um open question to the working group is is it that something we're going to be doing because that that is a key feature of the rough time protocol as it stands and if we're not going to do that work then there's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "definitely going to be questions raised about whether or not we need to keep a lot of the the Merkel trees and such around so the Merkel tree is actually about batch signing um it's it doesn't actually have to do with the kind of the chaining across uh requests and responses um um I think my personal view is that the draft that like specifies the protocol bits doesn't necessarily need to delve into that I think it would be a good idea like uh to start working on a kind of a separate draft that uh you know either describes in more detail like what how clients could would actually use rough time um uh maybe specify like you know kind of uh like HTTP endpoints for for uh kind of learning about what servers are available and things like that but um I would say I would not want to I would not want to I I would I I I don't think it' be a good idea to do that in the in the in the current draft I think it's just just to clarify Chris that there was a separate document called rough time ecosystem which which was starting to have some of those subjects but there was more to-do blocks than there were actual text my question is is is is what to do with with that expired draw and and Etc good question so maybe this isn't clear to everybody but I prob out Mark the data tracker we're abandoning the the the ecosystem draft because you know having a draft describing things you want people to do when there aren't people who are doing them doesn't really work um so we folded some of that material into the rough time draft and a lot of it is going to be up to implementers of clients and sort of what sort of reporting mechanisms they"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "put in themselves um so you know my hope is that once people start deploying this they'll be like we we need this and we'll actually come together and make make it happen okay just to be absolutely clear Watson you are not planning to continue the ecosystem draft and you've moved content from that into the protocol specification draft yes okay I did put a link to the uh ecosystem draft in the uh notes for those who weren't familiar with what it was before um all right um I I'm I'm sure that the uh so christer who was at the last ietf meeting uh in the hackathon and also in the main meeting also presented at R about this work um so I think um so Chris and James not Chris and James Chris and Watson how far do you think you are from having a document you believe to be stable oh David are you in the queue I'm sorry uh yes and so one of the reasons why I was saying the thing about the uh maybe folding this into MTP um and not not as a main part of npv 5 let me be clear on that just as specifying a uh extension field for np4 is that the current draft does a lot of stuff around leap seconds around time scales around"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "um or or very recent draft at least did all these things um which would need in my view a lot of discussion and we risk having a lot of those discussions twice um one's for rough time and one's for ntp and that's just to me seems like a lot of waste of time so if we want to stabilize this we either I would either think that we would need to be going back towards a far far simpler protocol that that really does only the rough stuff and not all the Precision stuff that seems to snuck in there um or we need to do the or I would strongly suggest that we go for a simple thing but I'm you're saying this is currently used in what kind of use cases is it used and how rough is rough for the these people because the current protocol spec allows a lot more more than 10c Precision I I I think and maybe maybe I did upload this one of the changes we made after San Francisco was removing all the subsec stuff so that that that you know that change has been made we're really focusing on the problem of you boot up on a system with no clock what do you do great did you have something oh no he's no I was going to say the same thing as Watson okay go ahead David yeah then I have one final question I also saw some stuff about uh web use of this and key rotation um that feels like we're moving in the direction that we're basically building a second route certificate system which I'm sure is going to get us some lovely comments from the security people um which which also feels so to what degree um is is that something that we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "want to support and need to support to to what degree it because for me it seems like if you go for the bootup problem then you need long-term keys that you basically don't rotate um so so I was wondering then on that for a little bit no you need I mean at some point if you want your server to have a stable address you you need to have a way but I think saying key rotation is really a misnomer it's really sort of key multiplexing how do you serve how do you know what key the client's expecting so you can use the right one for what you have I bless you go ahead Christopher uh yeah I I think I think that makes sense um yeah I was the one who raised this um um it's not I I don't I I obvious I I I try to make the point that I don't think we should have like we don't want to end up with the same like op like operational security requirements for rough time Root Keys as we have for like uh root certificates in the web pki um that's definitely a direction we don't want to go in um The Proposal is is kind of yeah basically to allow one service allow one like endpoint to support two keys at the same time and I I I I don't think we should like try to Define how um yeah I guess like how because like we're not the the problem that we're talking about is like the problem that browsers have to solve for for the web pki which is like maintaining root stores and um I don't I don't think we need to take on that problem um and I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "yeah um yeah go ahead James um I I think I think having multiple case support is good but I think what is in fact probably more important is having some further Clarity around the temporal keys that are used for deployment in particular um the Min uh the Min te and the max te I think the tags are um seen a lot of deployments that just sort of set those to Wild and Wily values and guidance would probably be appreciated in that as as just sort of one example um because if we're not going to have something as well defined and as huge as as uh you know the cab Forum setting how this stuff is then we need to have something ourselves um even something basic written down so that implementers and deployers don't so so to minimize mishandling of key material yeah if You' like to suggest text uh that would be welcome okay um so back to the my original question uh for Watson and Christopher do you have a time frame for the next update published update um that could definitely arrive in January okay and do you expect this might be the draft that'll be ready for working group last call I hope so but I've hoped that before and been wrong yeah that's true um all right so thank you all for the update on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "that uh NTS for PTP uh deer and I got an email from Martin who is not available for the call he has no real updates but he does hope to have um a solid draft updated for the March time frame all right so that brings us to any other business uh David you want to talk about NTS pool work yeah so over the past month and a half out of the top of my head we've been having some funding to actually build an experimental uh to build some experiments around a potential solution for NTS pools that doesn't require clients to um make any changes so to the client it just looks like there's an NTS end point there you can ask um for uh the key uh that you can negotiate keys with and get cookies and then you get an ex server that you get pointed to um but that allows multiple backend servers run by multiple people with a more distributed trust model where not it's you trust all of them at the same time uh there's still a a level of separation uh of trust between all all of them uh we are now to the point that we've got that working with our in with our own NP software um and it seems to be providing reasonable results um uh the front end doesn't require any edits to existing standards so clients won't see anything about this but it does require a few things from the servers individually to support this um eventually if we were to do this fully um that would be something I would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:03",
    "text": "want to propose a standard four the big question right now is to what extent is the working group interested in this early stage do we want to wait until we have a little bit more of an actual running thing uh or is the the Prototype uh that we've built now where we do Implement a few extensions to NTS uh key negotiation is there interest in already seeing that stage right now I I for one Watson I I for one would be interested in seeing it uh and you know if you need help looking at the security of it I I definitely can do that okay perhaps to also rephrase the question a bit is there somebody who thinks this is is way too early and and we should just not do this because otherwise I'm just going to see when we have time to push out the draft but push out something for people to respond to um um I mean I I personally don't think it's too early but um and I I I think it's an issue that NTS needs to address so um do any of the other implementers or authors of NTS have a comment um um I I I would suggest that it this this changes in the uh key establishment would require an update of the NTS draft is that correct it wouldn't necessarily require an update it's it's basically an extension"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "of what the drafted the draft uh the NTS uh protocol specification specifies so we add some we add basically a bunch of Records On Top that allow us to do this that allows the pool to be a man- in the- middle in a certain sense okay um I I think the earlier you could get more eyes on it the better so I then uh then I'll try to make sure that we either get that out next week or otherwise beginning of next year okay depends a bit on when people going with vacations I can't make promises right now but we're close enough that it probably next week okay all right is there any other business um okay with that um we will be planning a another virtual interim towards the end of January uh we'll get the dates out as soon as possible um James I don't remember where where are you located are you in uh I'm located in the Netherlands oh okay um one of the things at the very end of harland's email was a complaint about the time that we've been having these meetings and so I was going to see if I could move it a bit later um BAS on the people that regularly participate so if we were to move it an hour or so later would that cause a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "hardship for anybody one or two hours later would be okay be manageable okay it's nearly 6:00 p.m. local time so yeah yeah all right um all right are there is there any other business or questions comments uh all right thank you to everybody who reviewed the document so far and everybody else please please send in your reviews um and with that I hope everybody has a lovely holiday"
  }
]
