[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:26",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] [Music] okay so we about to begin actually I\u0027m just waiting for our ad but since we all the time to stop waiting and doing head start anything so this is the ambulance working group meeting in Bangkok this is the first of two meetings we have an the meeting tomorrow morning the second session the next yeah so this is a note well so I\u0027m Lola Anderson this is Nick layman and our secretary Tarek side is up here to the right this is a note well basically I think of it as everything you say do and write in a IEF context this subject to the become black now Rebecca it\u0027s subject to any rules that apply to our death so if you don\u0027t disclose anything you don\u0027t want to disclose that\u0027s probably the advice I have okay so the administrative information is we have an audio streaming that means even if you shout loud you probably have to shout into the mic otherwise the people remotely won\u0027t hear you so speak can speak using the microphones and state your name before speaking we have a data tracker that takes you to the ambulance working group actually data tracker is more and more replacing what we had before us milestones and correct on minute takers it\u0027s okay thank you we will have two presentations suddenly on Amy Tech or remotely that\u0027s actually the first time in doing that I think maybe George did one at one point in time I don\u0027t remember you have the URL for the online again then and the slides and there we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:26",
    "text": "go this is the agenda it is not that crowded but it\u0027s actually feel south to the two and two hours today and one hour tomorrow and I\u0027m kind of eager to get going so is it if no one has a comment on the agenda this is what how we were going to work so no again the bashing okay thanks there are blue sheets they are with the hi Manchu and Tareq sign and move and when you get to the back of the room it turn them back to the working group chairs this is my bad conscience I promised in at the last meeting to actually look at it and I totally forgot so this errata I need to sit down with my co-authors on that Torah see and look at it I think there is a it\u0027s some some type of level it\u0027s true though I\u0027m not sure that I want to go for the take text out I think I\u0027m what it would like to to modify the text but we will discuss that and respond to the errata Stuart in the room no okay you want we have had no liaisons no outgoing no incoming we also have had no new artists ace and that is correct we remember if this is the second time second meeting in a row where we don\u0027t have an URL see they had one lost okay so this is the first time that we don\u0027t have a new RFC on the other hand we have four documents with the is G and st. that at least the LG ping lag multi-port trough should be fairly close to approval and publication we have one document these MPLS RSVP shared labels you\u0027ll get name right yeah and that is actually request the publication for that assault yesterday we have new working with documents the newest is the one at the bottom the draft idea amphilocite assay encapsulation also approved the acceptance of working group "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:27",
    "text": "a little bit earlier but actually posted this week okay and we have a number of document that has been updated so the legend here is that anything in blue will be on the agenda we have a update working group that is still waiting for the right up just for publication request and that\u0027s the MPLS RI RZ p FR are the other ones are either on the agenda or in the queue to I shouldn\u0027t say that the drawtite fm+ SSE is in what group los : it will they end in about a week not a month ago but we fixed that the rest are the ambulance arm or an ampere is next in line to due to working group last call and then after that we will do the MPLS SRO variety so quite busy please review and some comments and then we have a number of new individuals around the all of them are on the agendas and no need to talk about them and then we have updated individual drafts I think Paris so help me alien help me draft sue until SR SR over IP that is a document that actually was submerged confuse the working of document said that should be removed otherwise I don\u0027t have much to say about this they are coming along quite nicely and then there are documents that have been there for a while and has not been updated since last time ah so Greg you had a document in DFT I think that he wanted to give it a heads up to the MPLS work and go yes thank you so this document was presented even if I say yes thank you Hodges Greg mercy CT so this document that we refer to it describes applicability of BFD demand "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:28",
    "text": "mode for MPLS point-to-point OSP and it\u0027s in BFD working group adoption call and call closes this Friday I\u0027m not sure about what time zone working group chairs will consider but I appreciate reviews and comments to be the working group and to MPLS working group because applicability and substance of the document is for MPLS data plane then we have she\u0027s one progress report that\u0027s I kept and fill a summary separar or CBT document has been updated and [Music] okay about Yemen so the draft idea temple a summary fRRR CPT document has been updated authors claim that is ready for working trip last call so we will start the process you will see an IPR follow shortly and all the other steps okay and we have a nama document where we don\u0027t have status reports several of them are because we\u0027re not expecting one like the bf be directed because that\u0027s when the shares so we are still sorting out this is around that document the ML DP mabe I think it\u0027s still what is sixth time it gives too close to expiring and we are trying to push it but it seems like that\u0027s something that doesn\u0027t really work draft IDF MPLS SSE he\u0027s been working group lost cause if not expecting a an update on that and then we had to document on the scene animus flow levels that we haven\u0027t read received a report on okay next okay so now I\u0027m going to take a few minutes - I don\u0027t know what that Concord Road over so we have a document that is RFC "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:31",
    "text": "73 22 it\u0027s called the RFC style guide and it\u0027s pretty much the law when it comes to how you structure a RFC and as all laws it\u0027s not it\u0027s open for some negotiation but if you actually follow that structure define that document you don\u0027t have any problem and there\u0027s some fixed points the way we don\u0027t give so don\u0027t try to beat elementadd follow the document structure and write the technical invention don\u0027t do a document to mention there are one thing that is I have taken as a fixed one that there is only 20 lines in a in an abstract it\u0027s no longer true because I actually seen in RFC being published with 21 lines so but keep keep the earth except shorter than to shoulder than 20 lines or 20 lines but it should also include enough information to actually be understandable this document abstract this document defines a new protocol here you won\u0027t go through a review by working group shares or is the you need something I have said before is that we can if you think about your next management manager in the hierarchy write the abstract so that person actually understand what it\u0027s all about and you have 20 lines to do it okay next and then we have the style guide one of the most common comment we have on any idea is that okay first time he used an abbreviation you need to expand it and it\u0027s amazing actually how often we miss that do you look at the abbreviation list because that has two type of entries if you see mpls star it means that you don\u0027t need to expand ambulance if you see LSP without the star you must expand it the first time you are using it even and the reason that in LSP is not classified as well-known is that there are I think three different other uses in of LSP so we don\u0027t know which one you means you need to expand it anyway so there are duplicates it replicates we actually put "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:34",
    "text": "CID notice a well-known but you could sit in and I think we know how now I have four different expansions or CID so it\u0027s not only a segment ID it\u0027s a couple of others that I don\u0027t remember okay I have discovered that I\u0027m then I\u0027m writing are starting to use to ACTU abbreviations fairly frequently W DLC has been there for some time it means working group last fall and I probably will start using it more frequently we also have working group adoption Paul WG ap I have tried to expand it when I use it that I after I know that I start using the WGA P as a abbreviation in males that goes out to the working group so you should be aware over to what it means so those are not really local to the ambulance and working you but this is how we been probably using it more frequently in the future next one so in we have questions frequently asked about working Googlers call and adoption polls the first one is that I actually got from a long time er former former a D and former IB member and asked me a as a co-author do I need to respond and the author is a co-author does not need to respond to either a working regards call or a adoption Paul it doesn\u0027t change anything I already know that no author actually support the document so I don\u0027t need to have that information twice or six times its rustic stalkers the other question it may a quarter in respond yes you can do that doesn\u0027t work so one reason I heard is that co-authors tend to respond to adoption pause and working with law school when there is low traffic on that on that subject so if you send another mail saying working-clothes lost call on grossie and so then you increase the trafficking the increased awareness hours going on and I say you can do that it\u0027s not very efficient it would be much more efficient if you actually thought about people that has not responded "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:35",
    "text": "having an interest in the area ask them to review and comment because then you catch you get a possibility to improve the document okay i powerboats so we do that twice before adoption Paul and before last called authors and courses are required or is done and you also require to respond ahead Don T\u0027s is not on the list but he also required to respond if you know about a IPR that related to the in the draft that particular raft and also and like Andy should know if someone writes in a acknowledgement second that we would like to thank mr. malice for contributing text that will trigger it mail from working group shares to that to that person in particular Ostia asking him or her to to actually respond to the because I don\u0027t know what text you actually added and I don\u0027t know what type of IPRs you can actually promote that way so that that\u0027s a reason so and we do not conclude IPR falls on time well we do always do conclude them on time but it\u0027s not the specific date and we actually wait for everyone to everyone that this is supposed to respond actually to respond to the area or fall so what happens if someone don\u0027t respond oh that\u0027s a good question okay there is a escape clause but so far the mpls working group has not found it necessary to use it what we probably do is actually send a mail to the what we planned to do last time we were close to it was send a mail to the working group mailing list and say this person has not responded is it okay to go ahead and doing the working group adoption or conclude the work and start work last call anyway one thing that I want to happen it\u0027s not necessary you\u0027re not required according to ITF processes but when we go from a individual document where you have an IPR disclose to a working group document I like to see an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:37",
    "text": "update changing nothing about the name for that IQR it\u0027s fairly easy to do and doesn\u0027t cost that much but it\u0027s very helpful okay and then we have to and I bring in their top because we have a mr. I have had misunderstanding a couple of times we have a preliminary agenda that we need to publish before the working group meeting at a certain date we always miss that very two and three days but its preliminary anyway and then we have a final agenda that we need to post at the 13 dates about the week before the the meeting the this is all done on a best effort basis so the preliminary yonder is an approximation we list all the request was not we have and all the requests thought that we think we would like and so the preliminary agenda doesn\u0027t guarantee you time on only in the face-to-face meeting the final agenda is at the time posted the best estimate that what actually will happen though the final agenda is actually set when we do the agenda bashing at the meeting so the final is kind of semi-final yeah okay anything more ah then we have my favorite list those are the sleeping beauties I have three pages of this so this is document that we have had posted to the working group that has for some reason stalled I know the list is wrong in two different ways first of all it actually include documents that I still are moving and they should probably be taken out it also includes does not include all the document that we could list here so it\u0027s again an approximation what I want you to do or I want the working group members to do is actually take a look at this list and see if you have a document here that you posted like two "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:38",
    "text": "and a half years ago when you find it they\u0027re still relevant I would like to progress it come and talk to us and if you find me there the other thing I post a document like three years ago and it\u0027s dead and it should be dead tell us so we can kill it so Nick you can just go through the young hello hello hello ah a clay of a comment of this document list sure yeah actually on the third row Frieden the previous the previous slide the first slide so um you know that Sleeping Beauty one so you have listed document ml DP multi topology here I think the no more sleeping our Dharma document it was presented to ITF ago we have reflected it Isis presented in London okay so Cameron can you send me a email on that so I know what the status is okay absolutely okay okay thanks are you giving back to the agenda thank you so now we have two remote presentations first it\u0027s an eel just one remark for the guys and the meat equals the update frequency is quite low so it takes about 15 seconds do you see the presentation yes I can see the presentation okay yeah good afternoon everyone let me introduce myself my name is elke Morrison I am delighted to be part of IETF one or three as a remote participant thanks Shay for the opportunity a little talk to you about the new draft LDP identifier name my object today is to get your point of view on this trap will be very happy to receive your sessions and cards so in a scaled-up topology with multiple neighbors it might be difficult to map label bindings received from multiple "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:40",
    "text": "lesser IDs having different name space so having so having human under seven understandable needs map LS already would be very helpful in reading through the information so the purpose of this draft is to exchange LD pairing fail me through TP protocol itself so the operators could easily map the identifier names to identify own name Oh as we all know LDP identifier is six bytes theta four bytes is IP address or towards the level space which is part of every video header so there are multiple ways to derive are obtained independently obviously one needs a static configuration at each device so other one is a using centralized location which maintains a LDP ID is already to label this ready to name mapping and it has its own advantages and disadvantages so one way could be a beginner server or Sdn controller or something a bear NMS so one of the reasons would be like reach ability of network problems to reach the DNS or controller or NFS the response time for Hart and then if there is a device so and one more thing is like operators could want to have a different name mapping to the ID at the runtime so and it is easier to make in this directly on the router instead so so what we are proposing is a protocol to carry a label identifier or name mapping in a TLB so this draft interviews isn\u0027t blue a little I need Appel name plv as an optional parameter as part of LDP holo-message similarly they put address t lv o EP identifier name will clear encoded as a ASCII string which is the swinging will be mapped to both r LS r ID I mean IP for address plus label space together we can give a one string user can be said what will be the string so we just stopped paying clearly so I mean is a simple proposal with a introducing and new optional TLB in a hollow message so we would like to hear from you whether Urbina is this useful or like this extension is a right way right approach or need further sessions to improve the document so I mean this is similar to the maybe put asperatus tyramine so it\u0027s optional so if you are out and you device doesn\u0027t understand this TLV you can ignore this TLB and continue with the process "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:48",
    "text": "echoing Louie yeah thank you for the explanation thank you in particular for that chunk of text you put in about duplicate names because when I started reading the document I was going oh my god duplicates oh my god and then I got down to the bit at the bottom that says what you do if two LS ours use the same name so that\u0027s cool I\u0027d like you to spend some time thinking about internationalization okay I don\u0027t yeah you currently say us-ascii and well where I come from that is a problem but probably in England and in America it wouldn\u0027t be a problem I think we have to be a bit more yeah so then a couple of RFC\u0027s out there that I think if you if you go to the data tracker and search for internationalization you\u0027ll get some pointers hey so any further questions so okay okay thank you thank you and we going on to the next remote presentation cam Rangoon talk about LDP young in ml DP yang hello Cameron do you see the presentation is coming out yeah so just say next if I should skip to the next page but as I said it takes about 15 to 20 seconds so hey hello everyone my name is Conrad for next 10 15 20 minutes I\u0027m going to present an update to the working group for the Jarek data modeler for Hurley p.m. LEP so let\u0027s start with the Lippe first next please next slide peace yeah I\u0027m on the next slide already Hyun\u0027s room okay yeah it takes time okay so what is coming up right so so we have been presenting LDP number of DP yang model drafts almost every ITF and update to the drafts at least last ITF at Monte ah we skipped it because there was not much activity so we are back to present and present both of them in this idea so LVP dropped just two remaining never even very quick history we presented this in Singapore we updated and refine a draft a bit and present it again in London in London view calls for the working group last call and call was initiated thanks to Cheers "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:48",
    "text": "in July 2018 right after the Montreal idea and we also received the working group last call review comments from Tom fresh they were very useful and we had where does those comments and posted the new revision 5 before Bangkok and I\u0027m just gonna take you through the changes we did in revision 5 as part of the working class to call comment really from Tom next like piece so while the next slide is coming actually let me I have my own version too so I can keep speaking in yeah so so basically as a part of revision 5 there are two two main things we did a couple of main things one was working to blast all comments we received from Tom yes those almost all of them I dropped an email to Tom and the working group to take a look some of the comments from Tom are pretty generic and not specific to this model and he has noted that some of those misses as well as you know missus as well as some of the the incorrect use is holocausts the many routing area yang models so I have a slide on that later on we can go through that and lower has asked me to maybe touch upon some of those generic comments which is useful for many other as well so while they\u0027re present a manipulator you\u0027ll notice that we also to apply some of those commands and MLD yang all the comm has a reviewed them but we proactively have applied doses blah blah so so this is what you know Pascal my a comment from Tom and we also added some of the data JSON that examples in our model that was first part of the ML DP review by AC and we back ported those attribute to LD P as well so these are the main two changes major changes in this region 5 over revision for next like this me yeah okay so so I\u0027ll go through general comments that tom has in the draft I\u0027m just summarizing some of them so one main comment I think as observed was that specification of the common language that we have it is still using old boilerplate we were not referencing the RFC 174 and the actual language which I have highlighted in italic later on so this is the actual text that we have to add in specification of the requirement so I found it all across my yang another documents in ITF so anything that I\u0027ve touched on bacod I have updated but I notice and I looked at around all of the documents are still using all boilerplate is gone so I think this is this is in general true for many documents in working area so we need to fix that second main comment was that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:51",
    "text": "although we are using an NMDA based yang and we have an explicit call out an abstract it is important enough to be call out in abstract we were missing notes to RFC editor especially this document is close to a you know publication I think it\u0027s time that a doctor should have a proper RFC editor notes so that to make the job easier to replace the text like for example G number text llamo dealer file names a revision of the revision the date of the revisions of the module with the deals of the publication and whatnot so in general model got yanked as well as our document is missing those notes and then we did not have any revision or version statement at all in our yang so by default it becomes yang one dot o all the we were complaining to young 1.11 so these were few comments and excite this hmm right and then few more comments that in our imported modules in over yang there was no reference statement and then of course since res reference was missing we were also missing the respective RFC\u0027s or the document from the Normandy reference list we were using tree diagram but not referencing instead of see a security consideration section was not conforming to RFC sixty eighty seven base and Iannetta consideration section was either missing in some cases or in LDP cases it was actually missing and we have to add the fully under consideration section so these are all comments on the work and all the eight over l DP p-- working of last call and as you can notice that most of them are pretty much applicable to any other yang which may or may not have you know which may or may not have mister some of those so that\u0027s these these little comments from tom hello you wanna add anything now you\u0027re at the questions they\u0027ve drawn for this one question for you I know you sent mail to people making comments have you seen a new responses I don\u0027t recall it thing I had to also work private email to Tom I was asking something I think has seen response but I don\u0027t think I have seen any airs also under the alias this was posted right on I think I\u0027d live cut off yet this draft revision so any comments from video questions okay so I think we\u0027re ready to go out okay sure next like this so so so I think the previous slide I tried to cover what tom has you know captured and of course we addressed all those comments in over revision five we added "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:51",
    "text": "power references at a loss of RFC editor notes but it you know treat diagram references executed consideration section is much in house now he might still be lacking uh some of you know some of the text that might you know we might have to might have to revisit an update as part of the security review but right notes is in much much better shape than the or original security second section e NR section was totally missing so that has been updated and it looks good and we added proper references to the to the latest revision of the the normative references informative references you\u0027re using and next like piece so JSON example this was not part of the review comment from Tom but this was a review committee ml de Quito aft only review by AC so we have added there so we also kind of applied that to LEP draft as an example this is just an example but we have more more just an example in our or document so this just shows that you know how how you see a purely state different parameters of the peer this is so we have added this as an appendix in the document I just for a reference and I think this is a this is useful information to have in a yang model to people to visualize you know how how the yang will look like and last slide please so as a next step I think we have addressed on the working to last call comment we haven\u0027t seen an explicit act from Tom or others that looks good but at this point in time authors believe that I think this document is ready to ready to next ready to go to next step which is basically publishing unless there is more review comment we would be happy to at the stores and RESPA and in eurovision but for now from oversight I think they\u0027re waiting as an extract for the publication little bit more detailed next steps what happens is that we will see a shepherd right up but we actually let the author\u0027s review and approve before we had to request publication and then they will follow a ad in ice-t review before for approval yeah yeah sorry I should have said that when I mean but because I mean go to the publication logistic for the first lap which is you write the shepherd review and whatnot so I\u0027m clearly biased on this document but I have one question that I actually need to ask and that is are the changes we made to the document within what we normally do as an update "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:53",
    "text": "to the working route last call or are they that big that we actually should do a short working group gloss all again in your opinion I see people shaking their head anyone that they want to stand up and say we are ready to go Canadian name please hi my name is on the way to Mike so he mind you from Siena I will be biased as well because I\u0027m also a co-author but it\u0027s ready to go okay any other opinions okay thank you so Nick has the right they chef is right and the next document is the MLB one yeah next like peace I\u0027m not on the history slide oh okay you already there okay so so let\u0027s go to the second part of this presentation so it\u0027s ml DP yang it\u0027s also division five so LD PNM LDP yang are going hand in hand with respect over of grace and revision so just again reminding everyone history about Emily P recent history these documents have been around for a good four five years now at least since Hawaii if I remember correctly so recent history is that we posted ml DP revision three IDF in Singapore we received yang dr.ali review by AC around December time and we posted sorry I I don\u0027t see that slide anymore but I can continue okay I can see how we both shared a vision for before Montreal where you guys still hear me yes yeah the slide somehow is gone what I was seeing but I can continue on my own version I guess okay yeah so right so so we posted the revision for but this was a minor update somehow we have missed AC email and we did not update it until later so we posted a revision 5 right before ITF 103 in Bangkok and we addressed basic comments and actually on that front I replied in detail to AC comment and took comment by comment and reply to AC and I think I had seen acknowledgement from AC and taking and acknowledging that the changes I made and the AC has done a wonderful job he was very detailed he helped improve the document quite a lot so on behalf of author I\u0027d like to thank you ac for verily kill the a young doctor "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:54",
    "text": "review of the document it\u0027s AC in the room but I don\u0027t think so no all right so so next slide please yeah so as I said we basically division 5a addresses review comments from AC if you do the diff between four and five you see quite a bit of changes in the text as well as in the dot yank file and I also alluded in LDP presentation that we also applied comments generate comments from Tom that were that were LEP on the LDP document we also applied those an ml EP document so we believe that ml DP document working group last call and and the next next level of revision will be much better because we have already proactively enhance a document for the reviews going forward next slide please so basically as in terms of what we address young actors we revised the security consideration section add a JSON example for configuration operational state over the script descriptions were not very clear so we in yangyang module we clarified those we added missing automatic references renamed some of the the Leafs which were causing some confusion to the reader and also clean up some grouping as as suggested by AC and we also took loss of a C\u0027s updated text and applied to the document next slide please yes and then the second part of the changes are we we applied Tom comments on ml DP as well proactively added proper references and it knows to RFC editor mission that we are using I agree vision 1.1 we added references to the tree diagram RFC and and other other updates to the document next a please yes so as a next step for for this document for MLBPA you\u0027re looking for any further reviews of the document on this this other reviews and and then there\u0027s some some more revisions we have to update but I think we believe that says you have applied very detailed comments from AC on the document as well as actively applied only people capable assed call comment on MLD PDF as well over Emily P yanked off is also in very good shape and authors and co-authors believe that we should be ready for ever king of past call in this document as well I believe up to chairs to discuss this either now or on the mailing list but uh but this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:55",
    "text": "is acting it from all sides this is an extra for this document that was my last light any cautious questions we\u0027re not really willing to discuss young models here sorry so next step is probably you\u0027ve seen IPR poll and run being run through the working group discord process and I would like to say something it\u0027s a pity that Tom patch is not here when he\u0027s normally not here so he\u0027s not surprised but I would like to say that we very much appreciate the reviews that Tom patch is done across the working routing area and a number of gang models in actually work to kind of make creating confirmation well they look the same now because we applied the comments that I think everyone actually applied the comments that they got from Tom and it\u0027s very much appreciated okay we\u0027re done Thank You Cameron thank you thank you no it\u0027s turret [Music] good afternoon you can hear me well okay my name is tarick and I\u0027m giving you a quick update on the two yang drafts the first one is the MPLS base yang draft the puts the cornerstone for other augmentations of MPLS protocols and the second one is for MPLS static Ellis fees which is augmenting the MPLS phase so I don\u0027t have many slides but as I go through I will describe what we\u0027ve done in terms of the updates to the drafts and then I\u0027ll close with some next steps so okay the drafts have undergone a yang doctor review and we got quite a few of comments we did clean up the document in general meet editorial changes and some myths that were pointed out by the by Tom patch basically I did mention his "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:57",
    "text": "name in the next slide but it was found that he reviewed our yang model as well and the drafts and we did proactive job of you know we we did notice that the LDP model and the LDP model they\u0027re being reviewed and there were generic comments as Camryn was saying that are applicable to pretty much all the ank models that are being published at IETF so we took care of those comments that are applicable to our drafts and we addressed them although they were not called out it\u0027s basically the ones that were called out and we did put references where it was missing for imported modules we did migrate to the nmda so we\u0027re not compliant with that and we put reference for an MVA as well which was missing and we added and updated actually the security considered in sections one detail we did import this common type that is defined in their routing rerouting common types MPLS label stack so we found no reason to redefine it in our model and we\u0027re reusing that pretty much the the what Cameron presented the generic comments where applicable to our model I\u0027m not going to go through them but we took care of those so in terms of next steps we sent out an email to Tom patch the yank doctor who gave us the comments to acknowledge that he has no further comments once we have that acknowledgment we think the grafts can progress for working route last call and make its way to the publication any questions I\u0027ll be happy to answer thank you thanks Thank You Terry [Music] actually who who requested the gang doc to review Ian I was my ok it\u0027s such a long time ago that I\u0027ve forgot about it ok so those four documents are basically 80% of the gang models that we can as they have in the ambulance work if we also have a document that is well LS beeping gang and the authors of that document has actually requested work group adoption so we will start that process well shortly after this meeting we have many such pros Paulson working group lost Costco announced that there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:57",
    "text": "will be a slight delay so next up is Chara and we actually give me your five minutes more than you requested if you want to use and then I\u0027ll be presenting two drafts one is on the EP eom and another is TTL handling for SRT parts so this the signal routing Santilli PE draft defines sits for the EP use case so here we have different aliases connected with SBR links between ASPRS and the central a PE traff defines different types of suits to be able to use you know send traffic on these links and choose either load-balancing or single links or set of load balancing links so when there\u0027s a deployment that that uses this EPE sits if there is a there is a operational requirement that to be able to do ping and traceroute across these is these links and these validates the control plane and data plane for these sets so it\u0027s useful to have this cross yes for localization in case you know there are problems in in control plane and forwarding plane programming for these sets so that there are we trying to see two use cases one use case may be the two a SS belong to a single operator and they have been segregated for because of you know easier and operational and maintenance reasons and there could be another use case where the two guesses belong to two different completely two different customers so so what we really need is the fixed stack definition for EPA six so we have the spear no suit and pH since he said so for OAM to work we need fixed AK "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:58",
    "text": "definitions so the definition looks like so we have new target fixed at TLV definition so this one defines the tech stack for both note said and I Jason C said so the information to be validated is pretty similar for both no sets and adjacency said so I thought probably you know having just one for them is good enough so we have the localized number remote ace number locally at the face address remote interface address and advertising bgp router ID and receiving BGP route right that\u0027s the definition of the effect for here no set energy since I said so it supports both ipv4 and ipv6 and and the the length would decide what exactly is being used whether it\u0027s for ITV 486 Sapir set said which defines load balancing require I mean see the label would load balance across multiple names belonging to different aliases the the links could belong to could be going to different aliases so the there is this number of elements in the set the the link representation is exactly the same as before but you could represent those links multiple times in this target effect so validation so there are two kinds of validations that may be necessary one where we can you know operator can allow the cross is validation case where the Clausius validation is not allowed because the OEM packet is not allowed to reach the other side so that can be that can be controlled by a configuration so the in case where the local configuration allows crosses validation the validation would be exactly similar as defining the eight two eight seven whereas if the cross validation is not allowed then the the local AAS would return the tie the written code has egress while validating these six so next steps request feedback from working group especially for the target fixed AK definition and then probably working group adoption because so very simple and basic extension to any comments any questions so I have a question on the last slide and that is probably yeah when you say working group adoption question mark what do you mean is it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "actually request to start looking if you should go through the working group adoption process yeah and we started questioning okay yeah can I ask how many has actually read this draft there are a handful or little bit more how many of you who had read it has read it I think it\u0027s ready to start things like MPLS r/t review and the general process to make didn\u0027t go to working group adoption about the same number a little bit less okay so this is a draft about handling detailed procedures for srt8 paths so the problem that we are looking at is we have to trace a srte path so let\u0027s let\u0027s assume the path is represented using two labels on the label stack 1 0 0 4 and 1 0 0 5 so we have this network with R 1 2 R 5 and then with the intent is to send the traffic from R 1 to R 4 and then our 4 to our 5 so those are represented using two loads so it 1 0 0 4 and 1 0 0 5 so when when MPLS trace or procedure has to be supported for this label stack so based on RFC 8 287 it suggests that the when you start tracing this this SRT if this tunnel you have to start with all the outer label the topmost to start with 1 and then they all the inner label set to 0 so so the step one we set 1 0 0 4 2 1 and then 1 0 0 5 2 0 and then packet is sent to R 2 so on our to the TTI check fails for the out PL so the packet packet goes to R 2 and then our two cents an and pls eco reply which says so so based on what is programmed on R 2 it says I am the transit for 1 0 0 4 so the next step when 1 this is a echo reply that r2 is transit then it increments the the TTL for 1 0 0 4 so now in the second step it becomes [Music] okay if the second step the TTL becomes two four one zero zero four label and then packet is sent out from our one so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:03",
    "text": "our to reduce decrement the TTL it goes to our three and our 3 again decrement the TTL which which makes the TTL for label one zero zero four two zero so our three gets the packet and then it sends an eco reply so our please be PHP for label one zero zero four so it sends the echo reply as I am the transit so the next step are one increments the TTL of one zero zero four two three and then against thanks back the packet on the wire and then now it in this step it reaches r4 so it reaches r3 so r3 is popping the labels or one zero zero four is removed from the label stack and then packet is sent to r4 when it comes on at four there\u0027s only one label one zero zero five and the TTL here is 0 because the initially the TTL was set to zero four nine one zero zero five so in this case the packet may be pointed up to the re or it may not be based on implementation it may be dropped or it may be rate limited let\u0027s assume that you know packet gets to are for our four processors and then see what what what will be the problem even if our four processes so our flow process processes the packet and it says I am the egress for this fact which is holdout 4.4.4 and then sends that return code to r1 in the MPLS echo reply so our well now implements the layer the TTL of one zero zero five two one and then it starts tracing and sets the outer so it has reached the egress for that that tunnel represented by label one zero zero four so it such that 255 and then it starts sending the packet so in this case when the packet reaches our four it\u0027s again because the TTL is one so it again expires on our force the packet gets punted to our four but our expectation was package should reach our find in this step so that\u0027s the problem in short pipe model the short pipe not aware the TTL is not getting coffee and the question really I can I do a question about the short pipe before you go on to the other ones on the on the on the three step three that one no then you have to step three is the next step three that one yes why do you you\u0027ve established the top label TTL span because you\u0027ve got to the end of it so you know the the TTL for the top label that will always work why do you suddenly change that up to 255 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:04",
    "text": "and not stick with the number that you know so that if something changes for some reason in the network you\u0027ll get some more information that yeah but you you already had traced up to the end of the tunnel right so you know that you know up to this point all your all that you have programmed the control plane and data plane is just fine right so it\u0027s it doesn\u0027t really make any difference no I guess not except now you have to actually change two things in your sauce packet rather than just one thing so if you if you look at the previous slide of also up step 3 there the the setting the TTL to three you gets you all the way that you needed to go so there\u0027s no need ever to change that three again in any of your processing yeah that\u0027s true yes I have CA 287 I guess specifies that you know top the outer tunnels are set to 255 and the inner tunnels the tunnels your tracing it goes from one two starts with one and the inner ones are set to zero so the problem with uniform model so we have first step same no difference comes to r2 and then gets an eco reply step two comes to r3 gets an eco reply same no difference step three where after he pops the label and r4 gets the packet so uniform model generally copies the label from top label to bottom label but in this case it does not get copied as we see the top label that one zero zero four has a TTL of one when it is just just just to be parked and the bottom level one zero zero five has the label zero so generally MPLS TTL copy mechanisms from top label to bottom label they do not copy the outer tunnel TTL to the inner TTL if the inner TTL is lower this is this is done to prevent you know packets getting looped so if it\u0027s an MPLS data packet so you know that you know if you are set a TTL to one then you expect that it\u0027s only one half so that\u0027s the reason if it doesn\u0027t get copied to a lower label label which is inner label and which is which has a lower TTL I couldn\u0027t find any reference in any of the standards probably didn\u0027t make it to any standard but its general practice followed by all and pls simple implementations so the so the problem we are looking at the same as with the short pipe model because it\u0027s the basically the the bottom label has a zero TTL so all we need as in a solution "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:08",
    "text": "is is for PHP router to say that I am PHP and then when when ingress knows that it has reached the PHP it has to increment the inner label TTL to 1 instead of waiting till the packet reaches the egress so let\u0027s see what happens when we do that so in this the step one remains same no change step two means change the only change asked is are three will inform our one that it is it is PHP because it\u0027s popping the label and then when when it does that our one will increment the TTL of the next label and and so when when the packet reaches our three the even though the top label is popped we have the bottom label with with the TTL of one so it it goes to our four and then gets then gets punted up to tre and then our four says I am egress and then when it\u0027s a secret seven will increment the next the next label TTL to two so so it all this works fine so so they there are there could have been two possibilities how our three would inform that it is PHP so one would be one could be the return called introducing a new return code but that would make it backward incompatible so is if some are one does not understand that return code then it would not it the behavior you know it it would cause in throw up issues so so the proposal is to put the in the da\u0027s flats in the DD map TLV that are three sends that it\u0027s a penalty mat hop router which is a P bit new bit introduced in the penultimate hop router and then that indicates to r1 that you know it\u0027s a PHP doctor so these are some of the alternate approaches evaluated to solve this problem so PHP router itself sending egress written code instead of new code it\u0027s PHP itself sends return hold that\u0027s one of alternate approach evaluated and then setting all inner labels to 1 instead of 0 and then setting all inner labels to 255 and then setting inner label to 2 on reaching egress those other coaches so setting as a the PHP router itself sending egress written code that you know the tunnel is not actually being traced in the egress so you know the intent is to make sure in the entire MPLS path is fine so you have to be able "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:10",
    "text": "to verify it control/play and data train till the actually dress and then PHP itself sending egress from it does not validate the last hop and it also does not effectively detect the problems like artoo had programmed a pop operation for one zero zero four and if I have four had something programmed miss program something all those cases will get missed if we do this so this this solution was discarded and also you know the intent was when we created the label stack one zero zero four in one zero zero five the intent of the operator was to figure out that that traffic should hit 1 0 0 for our four and then go to our five and and if you do this that that won\u0027t be guaranteed so this is not the best way to do it and next option evaluated was the setting inner labels to one so this this works fine when you know the the MPLS path the asahi path is the all the nodes on the path are programmed correctly so setting inner label to begin with if we set the inner label to one this mechanism works fine but the problem is if there is something wrong programmed for example R 2 is prematurely popping the label for one zero zero four then it may not detect the this problem immediately so for example in the first step the one has on one zero zero for n 1 zero zero five both cetera TL 2 1 and in this step to the by mistake let\u0027s say by mistake our two removes the label 1 0 0 4 in this case packet reach three and then defect stack still contains 4.4.4 our four which is a valid effect and it\u0027s a transit for that fact and whereas the incoming label map is one zero zero five so the the factors are validated the incoming label map is validated and if there is no validation across these then it won\u0027t detect I mean it will detect ultimately but not in the first step so it will go on like after he says I am transit car one will just increment the increment the TTL and then keep incrementing the TTL to reach r3 and then and then keep getting transit so the another option that we evaluated was setting all the label below the stack to 255 this mechanism obviously doesn\u0027t work well because once you reached r3 your label stack would contain 255 so you wouldn\u0027t even receive the unity will heat to the router r4 to trace that MPLS path so this won\u0027t work and the last option is the so when when "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:12",
    "text": "the egress is reached instead of setting the inner label TTL to one set it to two so this also works well in if the MPLS path is programmed correctly so it would reach our four and then once our four is done the next step it would reach our faith but it has the same issue that that is described for same as the setting inner labels to one so so tracing the society paths there may be already implementations that are doing one of these like setting label to the the mechanism described in this slide or this mechanism described in this slide because it kind of works if though works well for works fine for you know correctly programmed path but may not optimally detect the wrongly programmed paths so if somebody is using those mechanisms so the Karam that we\u0027re proposing is is not going to you know cause any problems if somebody is already implemented if there are already implementations that are doing any of these mechanisms yes so that\u0027s all I have pretty much okay Sam Waldron from Google I have many questions let\u0027s start with so white is written code returning a new value will be incompatible because the d router which is on the eat on the ingress may not process that return code and because the entire mechanism is sourced to them right yes so if you have to support this you will have to know that this written code is to be validated so you don\u0027t have to rely on the whatever is in the network so thing is let\u0027s as you some of the intermediate node is upgraded to this mechanism and then if it is itis PHP designing a different return or and the ingress is not upgraded so because it\u0027s sourced events are you expect the source to be always up to date yes protect may not be the actual deployment scenario right here you are just pinging sure but even in this case right you are expecting the DD map or whatever a new economy is has to be yeah up to date right you don\u0027t have the capability to know that particular transit or egress is update you have know which one the ones who don\u0027t understand that bit will just ignore it they won\u0027t anything is you you not be able to solve the problem yeah that\u0027s true but today it\u0027s not solved right that\u0027s what I\u0027m saying so by just fixing the source you should be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:12",
    "text": "able to at least yeah well instead of expecting all of the nodes in the network to actually get upgraded right so not necessarily so so why I am trying to say is mechanism can be incremented deployed incrementally like you upgrade you don\u0027t have to take you don\u0027t have to worry about you know some load is upgraded some node is not upgraded so there\u0027s going to be in therapy shoes right if you you are sending something in D s map let\u0027s say you\u0027ve upgraded the some of your core routers and then headend is not upgraded it\u0027s just fine it just works how it works today like if you have deployed already deployed srte in your network it just works the way it is working today right there\u0027s no problem so in respectively so the the the major question I have right so we can actually discuss offline about this my major concern is your why don\u0027t we just use the TTL label for the the very next label TTL equal to one not all of the labels but just the very next level TTL equal to one why it doesn\u0027t work if all the nodes are programmed correctly not really right because you are actually sending the FET TLV right or the fact TLB stack so you are actually going to validate so if you are going to pop up in any node which is not the right node the Falla Dacian will fail so you will be able to catch them so in this case the effect is valid right when it comes see if the speck validation and as incoming label validation so incoming label is different from what is feck and this is if your in your network if it\u0027s a peer shapiro this will always happen right the incoming label is different and your fact is different because you have already hopped the label right so so your validation will fail no if it\u0027s it has to pass if it\u0027s correctly you know even if it\u0027s in a correctly programmed because in the RFC what are 82 whatever right so in that you will for the r3 node in your future you will have to you are not supposed to send the the fact or the fixed IP lv for the outer tunnel will only be sending the my understanding is effect for 444 will reach up to r4 which is the real regress and then we need to on our 4 we need to verify that you know the four four four four is actually below those actually belong to that router that\u0027s my understanding but we can we can discuss offline okay so totally different question whether the be sim falls in the picture [Music] so let\u0027s see so you have a b-side from R "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:13",
    "text": "2 to R for let\u0027s say so for besets right so the TTL when you start tracing the TTL from R 2 so it\u0027s a separate tunnel right so you would start tracing that tunnel from R to starting from R to right right so what\u0027s the TTL kind of in mechanism your described that\u0027s for binding sites there is no difference right it would be same like how so so the way the binding site is supposed to work is you are going to self extract change from that point towards your so when you discover that you know this label is stitched to a set of different labels you signed up extract change but the TTL value it just same as in 8 0 to 9 right I mean you just continue incrementing the let\u0027s take R 2 is the pieces how do you get the dot 3 so so there are different modes defining it 0 to 9 there are there\u0027s one more where you can trace the contained LSP when you are doing the effect stack I mean when you are when the fixed at change is happening there\u0027s another mode waiting you can skip tracing and you can trace both options and then RFC l0 to line defines how exactly the tracing works right so the TTL for the TTL value if you want to press it it would just have to increment for the bindings if like you start from but binding cities has no meaning guitar 3 yeah so when you when you switch binding site from it\u0027s a swap operation basically right so what do we do for swap operation for the TTL values right so I think we copy from this label and then reduce it by one and that\u0027s how it gets for the swap labels so generally if you if you just just forget binding site for a movement how does this TTL get copied from flick are to there\u0027s a stack like this fat right it\u0027s going from like you have 1 0 0 2 it swaps to 1 0 0 2 and when it does that it decrements that utl by one i think that\u0027s the same way the binding said for the binding seedling first stop it just copies from the previous one so it just it and and how TTL will be reduced by one and then that\u0027s and if continues from there and then wherever you\u0027re late popping the label the same procedure would apply can\u0027t discuss offline yeah sure so any "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:16",
    "text": "further questions Bruno do you have anything when you look at knowledge anything about a boot what those two drafts not for me on Wynnum I meant on those two graphs if you have any comments so for the latest one currently there is a significant extension to arrastia so I think it should be discussing in empieza working group it\u0027s also also in NZ a journal of spring Jennifer coming from adrene adrene is at rest on the extensions removal we could discuss regarding the first presentation it\u0027s some student zipping Angela to be fair there is another draft from Zafar which is a very seminal which is in spring original or so and nebulous a Dada in a different slot so next wanna so clearly buzz draft are redundant so what you basically say that we need to do some type of into working group coordination err yes okay but spring meeting is tomorrow so maybe two more we\u0027ll have more more data so chatter on Chandra will you be in the spring working group meeting tomorrow okay so that\u0027s I will make sure done for today we have second session tomorrow spouting it I think 11:20 yeah so if you there thank you and if there is a break soon we should be um on this floor I think and then okay so tomorrow "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:29:46",
    "text": "[Music] "
  }
]