[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "i don't see anything yet i think nope check your permissions it's not the permissions i'm trying to uh to actually i manage the slides ah there we go they just took some time to process and they're out of order that should show up now all right well we're short a chair but uh it's 7am my time noon utc so hank if you want to kick us off i guess we'll get started yes another problem so uh i anticipated hello everybody uh this is our ietf 112 joint ops area and ops area working group meeting and we have some logistics prepared for all of you uh just there's a red text here that tells you everything you say and post and utter here is being recorded i hope you're okay with that so if not well non-participation i think is the only option next slide please so we have the note well i think this is rather well known if you're not familiar with this everything you say here is agreed upon about the iitf process"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "and policies uh please be aware that if you are uttering anything that is about uh ipr and and and some other controlled content and ip here uh be aware that that uh disclosing this here might create a conflict so take care of that uh we will record everything like the chat and and uh the uh own or something is happening here on my side the chat and um uh the participants and everything and there's a lot of links at the bottom of this page now so especially i would like to point out bcp 25 which is basically be nice to each other which is also complemented by bcp 54 how we should actually conduct that uh next slide please so this is the in addition uh recently so uh um my assumption is um some discussions in the past three months haven't been as polite as they could have been so uh so i think we are striving towards a constructive uh discussion and i think that we all expect each other to behave accordingly uh so there are some professional standards here and i think um i'm just stating the very obvious and i haven't seen anything here that is uh um the question about that but uh this is an addition to our our notes here right today and please be aware of that again and there's a copyright and the patents guidance as a best practice if you're not really sure how that works please look that up next time please so uh uh yeah as this is uh all our"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "online meeting we are really hoping to get back to the face-to-face and the i don't know uh screaming in their faces like uh at hand uh at the moment this is not possible is there so we have a jabber room um if you're if you're familiar with java please make use of that there's a participation guide how to use the meat echo if you're not familiar with that but apparently you're here so until now i guess you've crossed that threshold already if you're experiencing problems with that there's another link i think that's more important that's about issues if you find something really annoying here please uh raise an issue on this uh link below here at the bottom of the slides and otherwise when you're not speaking uh that might be obvious uh try to mute uh video i think is not a big of a problem but if you don't want to be in the center of the attention also turn off your video because all of this is recorded next slide please yeah now it's us our tyrann joined us so we have three chairs here in the uh up say uh wg and uh um we have uh i think prepared people to take uh individuals to take minutes and to read the java scribe so this is a call to the group now are there any designated minutes taker for today elliott said he would do it i see him on and i see things being typed into the the notes so i guess the answer is yes excellent yes i prepared a skeleton uh minutes so so insert something here is my my fault so i guess it's a small kind of guidance um yeah if anybody wants to follow this meeting on the note side please uh follow the notes link here in the the slide deck it's also on the data tracker"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "of course and you're with us in the mid echo so that's apparently clear uh next slide please okay so now in the past four months we made uh yeah there was progress and this is a busy group as uh most of you are aware so we published a new rfc which is uh 9105. i'm really happy to see tacx plus being something you can now read and rely on thank you for guiding that through the gateway function that is isu and r48 i think that took a while and congratulations to authors and editors here so on the other hand here we have something that is already an irc editor q i think uh that that's just uh now let's work anymore so so your thumbs pressed that there's nothing uh that is a threshold there we have something recently being moved to uh isu publications which the telemetry id i'm hoping to see progress there and but i'm not really concerned and i can i'm happy to announce that i think that we agreed on uh consensus here in the working group with the l2 and m and uh just now adrienne is in the queue i guess you might have some comments on this as an ise uh no not as the ic as the shepard for the l2nm i am working on this it's a uh a stunningly long document so um sorry it takes a while to review um uh and i'm pleased the editor is working with uh tom fetch also addressing some comments as they go along so i i'm hoping to complete my review of this by the end of itf week provided that the itf meeting is suitably boring"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "which is um i'm not commenting on this so probably but uh yeah i i'm i don't see any hard blockers there thank you adrian for um taking your thorough time for this as a shepherd i know that not from the text box and from mad the vpn the vpn common model is also in the rfcq is it though okay so that might be a error on my part because i didn't see the editor queue for vpn in the track card to be honest but okay then we have two options for this so thank you for uh adding that taran and um so so where we are so this is a busy pipeline as you can see uh we have multiple stages all of them are populated and utilized and we recently uh adopted two other ids uh upon the licensing content and about the historical content that is pcapp and we will have um specific time slots assigned to that uh looking at the time i really have to go far faster here please go to the next line so these are just agenda items so pretty much you can see this is a recap of the what we're doing here today we have uh we're going with administrative first this is like one minute left for me basically and uh then we go through the adopted items next slide please again a lot of more adopted items and i am not sure how elliot is going to do this in two minutes but uh sure let's try that out and then the next slides we have the related work um there's also a lot of packed agenda here the agenda really had to be uh let's call it uh orchestrated um there was a lot of demand for time and i think it's it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "great to see all of this contributions but we really have to make sure that time next time please um is is taking care of so as you can see we might uh interrupt uh when you are taking too long and typically we we we'd like to have a good discussion here but today i guess we have to be more strict than usual so sorry for that in advance but sometimes we will just interject and say next presentation please so uh there's in the end a a a ephemeral number of minutes for warren rob to talk about the uh office area agenda i think they might uh um compress that a little bit uh so uh do we have uh so we can have an open mic in the end and wrong yes so so the uh um just real quick um the the ads have said that if they need the time if anyone has something and we'll remind you an hour into this if anyone has something just put it in the chat and we'll make sure there's time to discuss that if not we can use some of that 10 minutes to um as buffer as needed um that's that's what we we kind of agreed to ahead of time yeah cool exactly so so if you have something uh addressing to the uh ops area directly which is the joint meeting of course but the joint means a little bit lopsided thing to the upside wg today so with no other words from my side let's go to the first presentation here and i guess it's take it away very good can you hear me yeah excellent so let me give an update on those two drafts that are serious assurance for intent based networking both architecture and young module on behalf of dan tangam paolo uh paolo"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "so next slide please in a one slide summary what we want to do is when a service degrades where is the fault and what are the symptoms and we want to discover the root cause but also the reverse direction when a network component fails which services are impacted so let me go to the next slide in order to buy you some time this is a picture of a prototype that was done some time ago on this assurance graph let me tell you that with the second prototype of this now so okay enough for the intro next slide something that we added in version two of the architecture draft is that we made it clear that we have a dag directed as a graph by adding arrows to to the edges there so i think this is clear now on the next slide we received the the feedback and the right feedback actually from elliot and and and kiriti telling that in some situation you might have some circular references circular dependencies into your graph the example that was mentioned was like okay specifically in case of cloud native cloud native applications right so you might have containers and vm they might depend on dhcp or dns so we we thought about uh thinking we thought about having a simpler example so typically an engineer a is defining interface depends on the link but an engineer b is defining the link depends on the interface whenever we need to merge those two smaller assurance graph well we will have an issue there or circular dependency and that that's a problem so first thing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "is that iliad and kiriti were right it could happen the the second thing is that they should be avoided right and the orchestrator could and should detect those circular dependencies so we added an entire new section on that concept and on the next slide we propose a graph transformation proposal where if you see on the left hand side the c d e and f is what's called a strongly connected component and we could rearrange the graph by having like an extra top service here and uh d e c d e f will depend on the top so from a point of view so from the top of the graph we would have the same set of dependencies and the same node for c d e and f so this is not part of a standard this is a proposal to mention that whenever the orchestrator detects the circular circular dependencies he should not allow that and there is a way to uh to to uh to change the graph to accommodate the problem on the next slide the yang module was untouched we discovered an issue in the previous itf but based on the prototype no more issues this is completely unchanged so what's left to be done in the next slide the one open issue we have in mind is to align the the technology was the two nmrg draft specifically the one about the concept and definition of intent based"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "networking those drafts are finalized now so we were good on that front so there's something we're going to do and i see a lot is in the in the line let me go for the last slide and then uh get elliot's feedback so i'm sure that you guys the chairs are going to ask right but what is the situation next steps so first points let me report on the non-results of the non-hackathon meeting that we were not having but we were thinking about having a hackathon about the how to combine the house of different subservices and how to compute the status of the service so typically whenever we got like an mbls vpn it could be hub and spoke or it could be fully meshed so what do you report as a combined health in those two different scenarios well it's not that obvious basically the answer is it depends so i'm stressing this because we we still believe it's something important that we want to do and it might be part of the next hackathon the next thing is that it's great to think about okay i report a symptom okay like the interface is flapping right but if we're sending yet another type of syslog message with plain english text we're not going to solve the issue of closed loop automation because we're back to square one we need to do a graphing slot message now i'm not sure if those two would be part of the same draft or a different one or even solidized but these are things that we that we're thinking of now to answer the question that the chairs might be asking okay so uh what is the status i believe that by the next ietf if no more issues are discovered it would be time to last call those two drafts"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "and i'm done so eight more minutes to go any questions or feedback i see one from from elliot thanks thanks very much benoit uh i think the strap remains incredibly important um actually really incredibly so i just i can't i can't emphasize it enough um thanks for the changes um just in terms of the graph transformations i think one of the things that would be very useful would i'm not sure if the draft has it yet would be to show what those transformations mean operationally um in terms of giving maybe an example or two and um we talked about dns maybe maybe follow through with the dns example as to what that means um search for you said very good we could do that i maybe i need to have a brief call with you because hopefully information will not mean anything from an operational point of view except maybe in the mind of the engineer a and b that in the future might have to design their their graph differently but can we have a five minutes discussion and to make sure i get your point and get the the right text in there yeah that's just a just to make i'll be really clear right the graph represents where the services are situated and so if you reorganize the graph you're reorganizing where those services reside and so all i'm saying is um and we can follow through on an example as to what that means and i'm happy to have a call with you always okay perfect so where the grad representative service resides not in all situations it also shows the dependencies for successful service"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "so you know if you say i need to have connectivity between a and b and c and d etc just organizing this those dependencies will still give you the same requirements but let's discuss it i want to make sure i catch your point completely okay thank you thank you i had a maybe a related question as a as a just an individual contributor um on your level of indirection as michael put it how is that programmatically determined how do you decide what needs to be inserted is that top level service to remove the to remove the loop or remove the circular dependency and if you're talking benoit looks like you are you're muted i can't hear you at least right so sorry my bad so if you go back a couple of cases a couple of slides back you're asking how do i know that i need to introduce this top sub service here which is how do you how do you know and and how what is it how do you like what what do you yeah concretely what is it very good so uh let me let me add some more text to it uh now this is just a proposal on how to solve it but i agree with you uh what i call an empty shelf in there should be more specified i'll take that nighttime to solve this one thanks yeah this is saying uh as a contributor also um this is a composite service problem right so uh uh identification of uh subservices and and composition"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "of sub-services seems to be uh of essentially here so so that is something that should be uh uh transparent around uh all the consumers of this information and you're going to do telemetry and and and i think it's very important to have a uh believable and and and sustainable trustworthy assertion about what these services are and how they are composed but that might be a a orthogonal problem but maybe maybe think about that okay i will let's not forget we made this framework open so that let's see multiple controllers with multiple part of the graphs then they could just combine these and if all of them depends on you know dns or dhcp this is the same one so it's actually a feature that you could combine graph from different sources and i understand what you meant thank you and uh elliot you are still in the line uh are you there deliberately okay robert sorry rob sorry this is as a contributor i guess i'm speaking it's just one i haven't read the latest version of draft benoit but i've noticed in terms of removing the circuit dependencies rather than forcing the graph to change did you consider the option of just having some uh rules effectively to break that the circular chain so rather than changing the graph you could put in some or some annotation to say at this point i want to break that chain but keep the graph the same but does that not make sense what you're trying to do right so that's something that we couldn't enforce telling you shall not add the dependency regular dependencies and engineer a or b"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "or whoever just behave we could always do that right so the first thing is to detect it to see if in practice we've got many of those currencies right if we go back to the uh the previous slide uh it might be just a question of educating engineer a and b so that they design their their theirs their part of the service they're the same way so yes we could have rules this could be in the draft this could be you know you shall not accept regular dependencies uh sure so my suggestion was actually slightly different was maybe and again i haven't looked at it maybe you want to allow the circular dependencies but put a mitigation in the processing so that they're not an issue to have some other way to say actually at this point if you get to a circular dependency with the the changes the events have been propagated you then break the chain at this point or something like that i was wondering you considered that rather than forcing the dependency not to be there it's just a thought okay thank you i'll i'll see what i could do in a draft um some of these things been while now back as a chair might be uh useful to bring to the list to because in your your um next steps you you want to bring it to last call some of these would be good extra discussion items to to get more people thinking and talking about the sane architecture that makes sense sure okay then we got one minute uh left here so we can move on to the next item if there are no other comments or questions excellent i see the deck is being shared"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "uh maybe it got a little a little out of order ah i see it there we go perfect michael uh now it's your turn and i get my my timer reset i really like the timer it's really nice okay uh so i'm here to talk about uh final throws of this document on mud and iot and dns uh we talked about it last time at ietf 111 as well i'm just going to mention that that very briefly there is a different document on acceptable urls and my belief is that it's completely ready to go forward and i think the chairs agreed and that's why there's no presentation on it today next slide please um next slide please i just said that no real change from one one one okay um and we had a conversation and i went actually back to watch the video to remember what happened and i tried to to reengage uh a thread on the working group about this um and so my take is that from the feedback is that we just need to not do this that that the biggest problem here is iot devices that do dns requests that may not that may receive geographically specific answers that may not be the same answer that the mud controller gets and therefore the access control lists would not be set up by niem uh correctly um so when we discussed this last time elliott came to the mic and said he thought that it was solvable um i'm i'm not sure uh that that's the case um i'd like to have more of a conversation uh on the list to figure out whether we can say anything at all other than uh don't do that um and that's really the only open issue i did open it finally as an issue uh on the in the github um and uh next slide i think that's the last that's it so i would i would really love to have a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "little bit more conversation in our three minutes here as to what's actually uh whether we can say anything in the end um and the the the major thing that i want to emphasize is that while there might be mud environments and mud controllers that are very sophisticated that have integrated dns controllers and this kind of stuff where it's possible the question is for a manufacturer is can he rely on that and i think that's the conversation that we need to have is is what what what was there go ahead elliot i'm not sure how strongly we're disagreeing but i think it's worth elaborating that just a bit into the draft and then um you know i think as we do it will kink out the the sort of issues that you and i were discussing and i'm happy to i don't want to engage in it directly here but i'm happy to to do that on the list okay so there is a message where i about three or four weeks ago where i tried to bring that up again and i'll reply again to that message and maybe we can have a bit of a larger conversation about what kind of text you think we can put in because i think this is essentially um a question of uh if you do this then this is the consequences i think that's what we have to write down perhaps in the draft um and the question is to whether we want to make normative uh um normative changes to the mud controller in this draft is i think uh an open question and i'm happy to do that but i'm just not sure that it's meaningful at this point uh to do that anyone else want to make a comment no okay so i'm next as well so uh you want to bring up the next set of slides changing that to the uh uh p-cap presentation thank you michael there we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "go all right now you'll know it's a different presenter because i have a different hat there we go um and uh matches my shirt today um okay so we went through uh working next slide please uh we went through an adoption call in october for these uh documents there's two documents one is pcapp one is pcapng i'm a little bit confused as to which one was adopted and which one was not i think it's really a document set i'm not sure you can adopt one without the other um or it makes sense um and that's really what this co this presentation is conversation is about uh we had a proposal in the thread about the conversation about having a third document which would just create the link type registry um and to do that in a in some new document um so i guess i don't have a strong objection to that um there's about 280 existing uh link types registered and they need to go into the iana registry somehow um one there's many different ways we could do this i believe that the document creates the registry uh should initialize it um and had a conversation some months ago with ayanna about how they would like to ideally receive them and they said they'd be happy to have xml attached and uh it it's pretty much pretty much we could do that easily to make their life easier um if you did have a third document that did this and that would remove the requirement that the pcap document go through a ietf process because the registry we want to create needs to be created by an ietf document it cannot be created by an independent submission stream document if you remove that then the historical pcap could go via ise or could go via 80"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "sponsor um i i don't particularly think it's easier harder for any other particular way at least from my point of view it's not um but the the goal really is that pk pcap ng would be on standards track uh for that um and if the working group decided that pcapp should go directly to historical actually i think that would represent the reality okay is that it's out there it's happened it's just uh not there next slide please and hank go ahead yeah so what i think what we just uh agreed upon in the working group and this is saying as a chair um is that yeah pcapp should be uh uh polished and go direct into historical i think that is the plan and and sometimes the messages though don't convey that message very well but uh i think that was its initial goal i think that is what we're targeting here for from uh jazz point of view um i i uh tentatively agree with the notion that p cap ng is kind of attached to that but uh that's a different kind of work so uh um i think uh the only problem here was a procedure one uh that uh people who were discussing this a year ago did not raise their voice uh in the adoption call so i think that's a logistical problem not a intentional problem so i assume optimistically that that there is actually enough support but when we do the procedures i think people have to follow the procedure so uh that's i think the only reason why this did not cross the threshold yet and uh and we can we can reconciliate that here by by by by highlighting yeah if you really want to do the the uh um future work that might be annoying even for c or anything like that yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "just voice your opinion and then then we're good but that did not happen on the list and unfortunately procedure-wise that is not enough elliot asks in the chat why not put the link type registry into pcapng and that's certainly possible um it does mean that the pcap document would reference it um and uh uh that's fine there it's unlikely that they're going to proceed through the rfc editor queue uh separately um so i don't have a problem with doing that um if that's what the working group would prefer um i think that a third document for third document's sake is you know it's a good it's a good cs layer of indirection to do but i think it's a bad optimizing uh ietf resources point of view to do so if if you want to put link cap link type it into pcapng uh we can do that that's okay yeah this option should be simply put on the list and i think there's not a big uh con this is not a contentious topic it just is a topic of uh what what what's what's the what's the solution on on where to go it's like two options maybe do the pizza upon this question to the list and then we go from there okay wonderful thank you very much yeah moving on i hope that beau is on the on the queue or jin can you hear me yeah that works oh oh that's good uh thanks uh hello everyone uh this is paul and i'm going to present"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "uh the updates on this uh network and vpn service performance monitoring draft slide please uh here is some quick summary of the status of this draft since last ietf meeting we haven't updated this draft since we the most the authors are also the authors their three in them and they're two of them and they are very occupied by these two drafts uh working group last call and and this draft is uh the purpose of this draft is to uh compliments uh layer three and then m and two and they're two of them and uh after uh in a figure uh we show that this uh this model is to used uh together with their three in them and they're two of them after provisioning using that two models uh this model can use to collect status of this vpn uh performance monitoring and then exposed to the service orchestration and the modeling approach of this draft uh is to augment uh ietf network and topology model uh in in this case the the the network and vpn performance monitoring can be associated and to uh and then that helps the the two uh understand why the uh vpn performance monitor better related with uh vpn uh with the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "network um uh status so here we right now we uh in the github we only have one open issue and uh that's uh the next uh please go into the next one then i'm talking about this open issue uh yes this issue is uh is from last ietf meeting and joe made the comments on uh why we uh defined the performance monitoring source to use a string other than uh other type it proposed to use identity type so we after investigation we think uh and also at that time there is some other suggestion to use some list as the this performance monitor saw so uh the authors had some discussion and they proposed to use identity to define the different performance monitoring uh approaches that uh the the controller can use to collect the performance metrics so uh here in the draft we mentioned we could use bgpls or some other om methods to get this uh monitor information and so we propose to use identity to to define this type and next step please so so in uh we propose to use uh identity"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "to define this pm source tab we define a base uh type then we uh use uh like we define some typical method to to get this metrics like uh pgpls t-vamp and uh what dot 1731 like uh each for the layer three uh vpn the two-way pin and also from the network like bgpls is from to collect to collect network uh performance matrix so next slide please oh it seems i can uh yes this one uh there's a discussion uh with the the authors the authors uh thought that under uh right now the term uh network only shows the termination point uh performance statistics but we should also add some vpn network access although uh specific counters to to see uh what's the difference with these two uh like uh to know like uh how the termination metrics and how the per vp network access uh statistics so we propose to add a vpn access statistic list so i show here uh some new notes we are proposing to add in in this way we will add some specific statistics"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "and in the figure i i show the uh what's the relationship with this weapon access network access and termination point next slide please and this is another issue about the link specific metrics information that right now we only have for the logical link or the uh like uh the link uh in uh layer two or layer three uh network link then uh the uh mad uh proposed that we may add some class id specific uh counters to to show different uh metrics uh even uh they are in the same logical link for network link so here uh this is another uh issue we want to uh we think it's uh useful to to solve so next slide please uh here is also uh and some uh proposal to to change to uh the cont to change the container right now it's a a container and we we think we may change to it list and use class id as a key so that for each link they can show different class ids performance monitor statistics so next slide please right now uh this is all the uh open issues but uh since we also uh got some comments from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "the mailing list that greg uh proposed that uh please go back to to this previous slides a little bit yeah grad also made the comments on this delay statistics of this link performance monitoring statistics he thought that the direction definition is quite confusing because uh this link uh it's uh it's supposed to be unit direction but uh we we we define direction seems quite uh quite confusing because uh because in our definition it shows its uh will be a one-way or two-way uh for this direction configuration so i thought that uh this is quite confusing because unit direction only shows this is a can can only have one-way uh delay so he proposed we we change uh change this direction to some source but we already have some pm source defined for this link specific one so we are thinking we are so we are proposed to remove this direction to to make it clear okay uh next night piece so that's all the issue pending issue and we we are planning to solve this pen after meeting so we'd like to hear other comments from working group and to see if you have an any other suggestion on this modeling i think we have time for just one question and elliott is in the queue so elliott yeah hi sorry for taking up the the question slots so much if we could go back to slide five for just one moment this is just a point of clarification um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "is the the new um are the new elements under vpn networks uh access statistics are those meant to be aggregates of uh the of the pm uh uh statistics or art or or am i or am i misunderst or is it the content inside the vpn or i'm not quite sure what what is meant by those objects can you say just two more words or two more sentences on that okay actually this vpn uh network access definition they are from layer 2 or nm and layer 3 and m and here uh because it's only showed in vpn uh overlay uh topology and but actually uh since the one termination point may be related with multiple vpn services so the authors think that we may show some vpn access specific one counters because they they could be different there could be some physical one represented by termination points counters but we could have some like vpn could use sub-interface in that way they have their own counters so can i answer your question uh sort of i would just say um in the interest of time that it should be really clear where the statistic where the counters what the counters are counting in terms of the ascii art and i think that would probably help that's not something we normally do but i think in this case because there's so much virtualization you might want to just give an example of where those counters actually are and what they're counting okay we can add an example to make it more clear"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "thank you bo and and thanks for your presentation yeah thanks and elliot uh you sacrificed maybe some of your time but we will accommodate you two minutes um on discovering retrieving software transparency okay so so many times somebody had a timer this is a draft from scott and myself that we adopted a little while ago uh next slide please um the uh this is all about uh what software is on a system and what vulnerabilities does the software have next slide please we talked about this all the same time there is an entire architecture around this but this extension is mostly around the upper left side in terms of how we learn where an s-bomb is in a deployment and so it's an extension to mud um to to basically point to uh where and where one could get an spdx file a cyclone dx file or a csaf file for that matter it's format neutral next slide please okay so we've done the yang doctors review what we've done is we've removed the ability to have csaf local information that's because vulnerabilities are generally announced elsewhere that and not generally on the device itself um and so that's the the only change really in in terms of substance um and it's worth discussion on the list i'm not sure if i have a next slide but maybe next slide um yeah discuss so the only thing is i think we need some more of the reviews before we go to working group last call which i was hoping to do i'd like to see a little bit more implementation on the part of the open c2 people and i'm talking to them uh already and then we're discussing this in other contexts as well so i think there needs to be probably one more update but the reviews should continue so security review uh an apps review for dot well known still needs to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "be done and the chairs i would appreciate if you guys could facilitate that okay this is i guess a chair uh thank you for your update i think we will press the appropriate buttons there to give you a review in parallel to the ongoing tasks thank you which moves us to the end of the adopted work and we can go on to the life cycle management operations item folding up next oh sorry thank you it's uh marisol palmeiro here um working in cisco cisco systems i'm based in madrid bienvenidos uh uh is the part of um we are really uh happy uh to present and introduce this draft uh we submitted this uh draft in august this year and now we have been publishing a revision two together with frank brockners slender kumar switovandari camilo cardona and with that we can go to the next slide data model for life cycle management and operations and the purpose and what we envision is to facilitate life cycle management and operations of an asset in order to enhance and improve the ability to quantify user experience and with that i want to reiterate what we mean with an asset and when we refer to an asset it is not only referring to a hardware physical device but considering as well any viral instance of a software including applications system or service also when referring to life cycle management and operations we would like to we want to cover on the draft the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "different states since we as users could select this asset that we have been defining and there are different options right depending on the features and the capabilities that that specific asset can offer there is a selection process on it you can buy you need to place to do the placement of the asset and the installation with this we are getting into that life cycle you need to license the asset and even the feature you will need to select with features or capabilities of your network device or software application you need to enable you will need to start measuring and here will come more on operations data you start start using that specific feature and you will start working on the operations it might be false it might be performance issues that you will need to open support case management or incident management incidents with your support escalation team or from your third party vendor as an user and just to close the lifecycle management you might need as well to renew and update those assets at a certain point right to make sure that you can continue working with that specific assets in the best way with that we can go to the next slides where i will i would like to highlight on the motivation right and the problem statements on the data model for lmo today we have a good number of standards looking at operations that will allow us to have a good reference and metrics understanding how our networks are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "behaving measuring performance capacity and even detecting faults all this is the work of our network and engineers but we don't have to forget that we could collect other metrics that might not be that relevant to the day-to-day but will help to analyze proactively our networks as well and um with this we have new roles uh as well that come into the pictures data science teams business leaders project managers and architects and even developers right that could benefit for some business data that are not really related to the operations and this is one of the main objectives of this definition of lmo and the data model defined for for lmo i want to reference the work done by even atlas and frank brockners that they presented into itf in the in march 2019 and you have the reference there where they were addressing the linkage between networking [Music] data applications data and business data with that we can go to the next slide where we are highlighting the uh in this draft we are covering a few use cases we understand that it might be for much more and we could address much more use cases but this is an example of the motivation to get to write this draft if we have been adding the revision and two assets in use but if you allow me to refer just to the risk mitigation check as an example proactively depending on the features and capabilities that are running in a certain assets you can proactively understand uh based on on the hardware"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "and software that is running as well on your uh different uh networking devices of software applications what could be a risk right that it could benefit to run better those networks and this is an example of how this motivation check might be implemented going to the next slides and just trying to go to the next steps as well but we have been identifying four main data sets uh with different attributes on it highlighting assets as a main centric point of our draft but also covering licensing's licenses usage as part of the features and capabilities of of that asset and incident that might be linked to an asset or even to a feature that we upgraded as well in the revision co2 and finished with the next slide our asks and next steps we welcome and appreciate feedback for for the from the working group and at the moment we are looking how to improve the attributes that we have been defining in the young modules evolving some of those attributes like it could be assets in use address how we identify from the management point of view and asset with that mark an ip address we have been introducing new attributes for it considering additional attributes to cover concepts like combo options for features and assets within licensing and also we have been addressing in version 0.2 and we have still to reiterate on that how to identify an organization and the hierarchy for it with that i know i have only three minutes for questions but i open the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "floor for questions thank you very much so uh i i believe in the past this draft make love sense i still believe this makes a lot of sense that could be very important in the future obviously one small detail about the naming convention uh it's not really about life cycle management and because everything is collecting information right all the things in your young modules is read only i've not been thinking about good name it's not too important but just something to observe and even your abstract mentioned collects now in the industry this is the third point in history is that we start to see many inventories right so you could get things from the network elements you could get things from the young catalog and joe and i wrote a draft on you know how to retrieve how to even mention what is a platform what is an os etc we start to have capabilities discovery in the context of telemetry you'll see a draft about a data manifest uh later in the session so we start to see more and more of these inventory high-level information that are network-wide more business-oriented so really want to make sure that we align on the definition of all these right because if this drive becomes very important it will be a success if it's multi-vendor right because in the end most networks are just multi-vendor so this is something that you have to work on and there are things that scare me in their like licensing right trying to get multi-vendor and licensing model in there it's like it's a tough one so happy to to help you on this one perfect thank you benoit and really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "appreciate i i i the comments that you made you were right right on the naming we were discussing internally how to get to an a good name and uh we are not close to change that if if it's required internally within cisco we call it differently but uh yeah i really appreciate on the comments as well to align with other drafts we have been already doing an exercise with elliot on considering his bomb and yeah it would be really good to align and make it multi-vendor this is our purpose as well yeah to consider that marisol you have quite a few um steps here and benoit touched on uh a couple of others um these are would be great things to bring to the list and discuss as you you look to make these decisions um again assuming you want to take this draft further in ops awg having that those conversations and engaging the the broader operations and vendor interests would be extremely useful and i think you've got some good items here i'm particularly interested in the last one but we're out of time so i would like to hear more about what you're thinking there and and hear about it in the public forum perfect point taken yo i will make for sure follow up on the forum on the questions thank you very much okay we have kenneth i believe up next and i think these are the slides ken i just saw you and you went away there he is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "take it away well he went away again we can't hear you if you're talking ken while uh ken gets set up here um remember if you have any items for ops area the open mic please just let us know in the chat so we can know to budget that time we're kind of on schedule but we're having some technical difficulties it seems if need be we can we can push you ken and if you're having trouble we can move to uh the next speaker i don't know let me see if there's anything happening in the chat i don't see anything let's um let's move to uh the inband flow learning i don't know sorry we'll back to you benoit we'll go to uh manifest for streaming telemetry which is next because dan needs to move to the um the end and ken will come back to you right after benoit's presentation here just so we can keep things moving so i need manifest something there we go so benoit and ken will hopefully you'll be sorted out and we'll come back to you very good let me just put my food away okay data manifesto streaming telemetry so that's a draft on behalf of jean my colleague diego lopez telefonica and thomas graf swisscom"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "which uh who i believe are in the call so if i see anything wrong feel free to correct me next slide please okay so uh what is the issue we start to have an industry money capability discovery from routers even the per node recovery discoveries like the first two drafts are in there to uh you know tell you what you could do with uh streaming telemetry the third one tells you what you could be doing with uh you know whether a per node as the quality of unchanged or not what is the current or the minimum cadence you could get anything like this the big question that we're asking now is what is actually how is this actually metered under what circumstances right so if you go to the next slide let's say that you've got in your data collection system which is by the way generic term it could be the collector the controller the orchestrator a big data lake and you've got the value 42. what does it mean the bare minimum is that for this object which is stored in xml or json is to get the corresponding yang object to get some sort of semantic behind it but is this sufficient uh we don't think so because if you receive the value 42 and a single value can you assume that you receive this as unchanged maybe not maybe it was simply the only value that you are receiving or if you receive a collection period and in your time series you see the value second 6 11 17 whatever what was the initial cadence that you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "were actually requesting what was the cadence that you received maybe because the device is busy maybe because it's under stress maybe because it's unsupported whatever even the the router os like you receive 42 but from two different routers an old one with an old os with a bug a new one with a new os without a bug so it's key if you want to interpret the data it's key to get the context so if you go to the next slide the proposal is to get like two young modules the first one would be one about the platform manifests and the second one being the data manifests i'm going to cover what it means but just to make the link with what i said too to marisol in the previous session is that we start to see many of those type of inventory or context information so this information about the context must be streamed with the data and store along with the collecting data so if you stream the data somewhere else like in the end maybe in a big data lake for further analysis the context must follow now this must be and we just i just showed in the previous uh slides the instant draft which is right now in the rfc editor queue which is a draft that gives you a file based on the yang format and this is the way that this information should be stored so if we if we go to the next slide so two young modules one is the platform manifest so typically what is the hardware model what is the os type what is the version and with the old draft that joe clark and i wrote which is the yang module behind the yang catalog"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "we have identified we have we attempted to model those values and since those values are used in the catalog and there are people introducing you know with a file called platform metadata they're introducing information about those device we could be reusing it now we also want to send uh or to link the information about the available yang modules but also deviation that are on that device again if i take the example of router 1 old and router 2 new without the bug maybe the deviations are different so that's also something that we need to interpret the data when would you change its platform manifest when there is a change in the platform typically a reboot a new os something like that in the next slide slide you would see the pian3 of all the the information the first curly bracket comes from the yang model behind the yang catalog and the second one comes we just reuse the yang library module okay in the next slide we speak about the data manifests so in there we we want to show person surpass the information whether polling or change is used remember if i receive the single value of 42 what does it mean whether suppressed we don't see is used meaning that it's a feature where if you're going to send the same value well actually don't send it the value has not changed it's still 42 but it's still important to understand if you're having polling with super presidency or change the requested collection period and what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "is the current one maybe because it's not supported maybe because the routers are stressed whatever and we update this data manifest whenever the collection condition changes you've got a new subscription or a different collection or something change now we speak a lot about ai and machine learning so if you want to analyze the data it's important to get all the context so in the next slide we see the pian3 uh for the information of the data manifest sensor pass requested period current period unchanged presidency and we might be having more in the future okay in the next slide so this is the basic idea i've been showing you so far what are the improvements that we've been identifying clearly identify how data manifest should be collected well telemetry makes sense right you just push this along with the data but do you want to acknowledge it do we want to set on a regular basis is this per subscription id or person surpass and we also want to to include a source of data well if it comes from the router we might trust it if it comes from the young catalog maybe if it comes from a controller maybe but there is some some some importance to flag where it's coming from and on next slide we still have some open question so feel free to discuss that on the mailing list or wherever how to map data manifest the corrected data let's say you are in influx db how would you tag some specific objects with a time series telling well the data manifest is the first one or the second one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "so the other question if i stream from a line card do i need to send the like information and maybe a one which is maybe foot or fart let's say do we want to handle data manifest for non-telemetry value so uh in conclusion in the last slide we propose to normalize the way contextual information about data collection is stored it should be safe with the data moved with the data and would allow us as a later reusability or later contact information to sorry let me rephrase that it will allow us later not to use the context to interpret the data so there is github which updated in the data tracker so feel free to give me your feedback on this thank you that's it for me we have elliot and rob and hey oh my we have a lot we're not going to be able to take everyone but let's uh elliot let's start with you what i've talked enough i'll skip me go to the next guy actually i've put my question in the chat so then i can see it there my quick comment is have the platform manifest have you considered using yang packages as a way of describing um what the yang modules are supported which gives you hierarchical capabilities but i can discuss something on the list describe it if that's helpful very quickly that's a great idea yes thank you so this is a chair um so so we we have this uh there's this s-bomb effort and and now you are trying to do manifests that are literally the the contents and the provenances of the things you want to uh uh run is there overlap that was my point to marisol uh in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "precession that we start to see all these type of inventory and we would need to harmonize all this okay so that should be an a dedicated effort and i i would happy to uh to contribute to to organizing that thank you frank is that a quick question if not uh might need to take it to the list yeah it's a quick one um i think that's to the earlier comment i think it would make sense to go and delineate pure inventory type things um that you have in the draft from things that are again about runtime information uh because um collection cadence actual collection cadence in those settings are again about operational runtime information and we might want to go and treat them differently because also the accuracy of what you can retrieve from an operational perspective collection cadence been a really a big can of warmth as opposed to things that are kind of static like hardware id uh router version and the likes and i would agree that i think we want to go and merge certain pieces with murray salzburg thank you i obviously agree with your statement that there are two different types of data thank you very much benoit seems like there's great conversation to be had on this work and ken says he's back um now i'm trying to ah there it is okay i can hear you great um so i am gonna discuss a little bit about what we're doing in its and how we're using snmp and the reason we need to update it to 1.3 for tls so next slide so within the its community intelligent transport systems we are using this as a primary standard for exchanging information with our field devices both back to central"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "and with other field devices classic examples are what you see here with signal information being controlled back and forth obviously we need this to be very secure next slide so the cisa among others definitely recommend using snmpv3 over uh basically dtls according to rfc 6353 that all makes sense as of oh two years ago and then there were some problems with 1.2 so they've updated those standards now to 1.3 what we're looking for is basically an update of 6353 to clarify exactly how we implement snmp over tls 1.3 now or dtls 1.3 either one next slide so with that the its community realized that no active effort was being undertaken in the ietf right now so we looked at different things we looked at changing protocols completely we recognize that among a lot of people snmp is kind of out of favor now uh but nonetheless when we looked at different options the its community decided that it is much better for us to stay with snmp given our investment today given its features uh it does what we need it to do so the plan is to stick with snmp and ideally create the update to 1.3 within the ietf and that's one of the reasons that i've been asked to come present to you today we have put together a draft and we would like to have that draft adopted by the ietf uh and we're very interested in working with you um the alternative is it would probably be developed as our own internal standard but it makes a lot"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "more sense to work through the ietf next slide so um just as a quick summary of the changes that are needed the driving changes i alluded to is updating 1.3 tls 1.3 uses a 2 octet identifier for the cyber suite now sorry cipher suite now rather than a one octet for the hash algorithm and another one octet for the encryption algorithm that changes the fingerprint that's recorded within the rfc 6353 mids and that creates some ambiguities of how all of that should be handled a couple different ways to resolve this we're not really too concerned which approach we use benefits and challenges either way but that's one issue to be resolved and and that's really the driving issue there are other clarifications that should be made such as updating references clarifying authentication privacy are always provided next slide and then some more subjective changes uh such as whether we use zero rtt and other issues so if we've identified all of those in our draft we've made proposals but we're willing to negotiate any of these the key is reaching consensus so that all implementations do it the same way and next slide so uh that really brings us down to three major questions the first of which is you know we presented this actually at the last ietf meeting to the security dispatch group they liked the idea they ended up pushing this over to the uh to this working group as its natural home uh so does yapzog wish to adopt this work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "and then if we assuming that we do do that then how do we best address the fingerprint issue do we revise the mib which ends up being a fairly significant revision or do we just simply require iana to maintain one hot hash identifier which might otherwise go away and create problems the other big issue is the document format do we make this an update to rfc 6353 do we obsolete that document and replace it with our new one or do we create a new parallel document and they both can potentially exist in the future those are all things that we can discuss via the reflector but i'm happy to accept comments yes hey uh thanks thanks ken for the for this presentation um i just have a question for you which is how well fielded do you believe rfc 6353 is in its somewhat limited right now uh it is um our security is not where it needs to be uh there is a major effort within the federal highway administration to improve our security and this is a part of that effort okay yeah if um i think that goes to what we do with the document format just from my purposes i think uh we should stop playing ping pong with this document if um if it seems reasonable to get us to tls 1.3 it's not a small effort we just went through this with with an emu for eep it takes a little bit of work you're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "doing the work uh you seem to have a community of interest to do the work you know assuming that uh other participants are willing to step up and say yeah i'll implement then i think we should adopt um but i also think this work needs to be really closely brought back to the tls working group just so that they know what's going on because ops area doesn't have tls expertise the tls working group has tls expertise so you know without getting into inside baseball in terms of the work being done like i'd say yeah as long as people are willing to implement we work on the logistics to make sure that the tls experts are paying attention yep that sounds great got a few minutes left any other questions for kenneth rob um i'm just going to make a comment uh i don't know this is with lady hat on not really but i do think it's important that the itf should do this work um in the sense that i think it's important that we keep our protocol secure so i think it's a matter of finding what the best path through that is in terms of one of the questions here about updating or obsoleting i think that that depends on the size of the changes if it could be done sensibly as an update that might be um might be a better choice potentially but that can be worked out i think that has been brought up on the list already when kenneth raised this and um with the chair hat on uh i think it is worth bringing up the question of adoption i agree with elliot's comment that uh the ping-ponging probably isn't needed anymore we've got snmp expertise here and and if we can get the collaboration with tls and the working"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "group wants to work on this we can certainly raise the question and see where to go from there and and rob i agree with you i i think the more tactical type change would be beneficial but that's going to need to be evaluated i don't see anyone else l.a unless you're in the queue to ask another question nope uh well kind of thank you very much uh we'll take the action to raise the the question of adoption uh to see what uh what the working group wants to do with this work since you've clearly put initial effort into it and see where we go from there all right thanks a lot so next we've got in-band flow learning uh let's see what's this one yeah i think it may just be me minshu but i cannot hear you at all unfortunately it's not just you it's also me you're very chopped up here again see i was presenting is it minzu yep yeah okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:04",
    "text": "i'm moving from train number five okay um thank you chair so on behalf of other authors i'm going to present this draft of problem statement and requirement for in-band flow learning so this product is also proposed in ippm wt and and the authors discussed um we think it's more uh related to the operation and management functions um for flow performance monitoring so um today we present here to uh hope to achieve more suggestions okay so next time please so the objective of this contribution um is first to analyze the challenges of in-band flow learning identifications for the flow performance measurement in the operators networks so a large skill deployment of 4g and 5g wireless base stations and enterprise services may cause problems for us to deploy the implant flow learning and second are the requirements of inventory learning to solve the problems for deploying event performance monitoring and second to provide scenarios for the inventory learning including ingress flow learning egress flow learning and hope by hop flow learning and also auto flow aging so next next please yeah next time please i'm slide three now do you want slide four"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "oh i can i can only see this two so that's okay okay okay step three so for the problem statements and uh first it is always difficult to get the flow informations in our real networks so including the characteristics like ports ip addresses dscps etc to set up the intense instance for the flow performance monitoring um for example in 4g and 5 t2c and 2b is nervous because of some entire effects or base station adjustments and uvf extensions which are always hands in our networks so it will cause problems for us to gather the in flow informations and then for the enterprise services because of the difficulties to get the customers information so we will get problems for the deployment of the performance monitoring and second it is always hard to deploy and maintain the flow monitoring and the statistics telemetry in the static mode in large scale network so for the open um data by the end of march 2021 so um china mobile has already deployed 404 410 000 uh 5g stations and also we have 400 000 slicing packing networks equipments for the backhoes and enterprise services so it is really a large scale of networks and and the third the traffic forwarding paths is changed because of service flow switching and the service protection and route"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "convergency so when a hub by hub flow monitoring is required by some critical traffic for the deep soa investigation and the monetary instance are each nodes and they need to be redeployed on the new path so this is our problem statement and next step please and make sure you have uh your over your five minutes so if you can okay finish quickly i will quickly finish the requirements so uh the requirements for the uh implantable learning may involve ingress and egress for learning and how by helpful learning and so also the auto flow uh aging to uh recycle the resource okay so um because there's not enough time so i will just go next slide so the next step um so where we will update the draft according our feedbacks and later will propose more contributions on the mechanisms of the impactflow learning functions so also we want to discuss whether this kind of draft is can belong to ippm or obs awg okay thank you that's quite true um and i would suggest you bring it up on the uh on the list or question there about applicability and we can have a discussion thank you okay okay thank you all right uh talo i believe you are next on uh data model for optical network inventory somewhere yeah thank you can you hear me okay we can but i can't find your slides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:02",
    "text": "shoot let me see if i can sorry about that i think i didn't have them processed all right there we go sorry okay go ahead and tell us thank you thank you mr chairman uh i am from hawaii and i'm presenting on binary of uh quarters this rough that we have submitted to the second working group and uh but i think we could be interested for the observer working group as well that's why i'm presenting here next slides please okay this is an eye-level overview of what are we doing and why do we need this model so we have uh i discovered from some work we have done with operators that inventory management is a key function in their oss system and today is performed through interfaces like corba xml or restful but what is missing is a standard young data model that could be used to retrieve the network inventory so the inventory information from the whole network uh through an an mbi interface of a network controller and the rfc 348 that we found is actually limited to the hardware management of a single device so it's not a network level model because you measure a single device and that's much more than just inventories just do the whole hardware management so what we need is something which is just inventory and for a network model and the intention that we have is to to come up with a model that is generic and applicable to multiple technologies including ip not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "only optical but also ip and microwave devices and that's the reason why we are asking a question for the first version what we are checking as the young model that we provide is useful is able to cope with the optical network inventory requirements but we need more work and input on what to do with the ip and microwave and next next slide please them so the key question that we need to discuss is which working group should we go for for the next steps so we with the economist we have an initial draft but we want to improve it to make it more generic and we would like to understand which are the working group so at this point we have a three candidate c camp net mod and observer working group and any other opinion is also welcome and the suggest my plan is here to discuss here is more where to to continue this work for the technical discussion we have a longer slot in c camp on this thursday so if you are interested to do in the technical discussion of the first draft please join sika but focus here on whether ops area or another working group should be the right place thank you elliot hi again thanks for uh taking my question uh italo and thanks for the draft um i think you have the misfortune if if my account is not wrong of being the fifth draft today to cover something relating to inventory and um so the word is maybe getting overused uh or it may be that it's being properly used but unfortunately with five-minute presentations it's really hard to tell so my suggestion is um that this is a good opportunity for an interim to bring these all to to bring a discussion around where all these what the map of the world looks like with regard to inventory"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "so that we know which draft is meant to cover what purpose what drafts need to be combined whether there needs to be a working group for this or or whether it happened a new working group or whether it happens an existing working group some of that is for the iesg to decide but at least having it a healthy discussion about the map of these different drafts and where they fit together i agree with benoit we're we're all we're we've got a lot of inventory to cover as it were thank you okay thank you uh makes sense to me just to clarify this inventory of the hardware so what are the boards the racks the shelves and the ports you have deployed in the network i understand an inventory is overloaded terminal yeah it might not be a bad idea given the various maybe maybe overlap maybe not overlap to to have a deeper conversation on that um it doesn't have a lot of time to pull i for one i need to uh read this one to get a better feel where it might go but certainly discussing or asking on the list to see who here in hops awg is interested wouldn't be a bad idea and the chairs we can talk about maybe we do want to do something to bring together uh marisol benoit your work and get more of that holistic approach to uh inventory well thank you for the presentation in tala thank you okay uh let's see if chin i think leave you and then we'll go to dan lee for the final presentation so this is on uh service attachment points hi can you hear me we can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "okay great uh hello everyone this is ching uh thank you chair to accommodate this topic as the last one and uh i'm like to present this sap network model next so this is another new job actually used to be the uni topology chapter that will be proceeding in the opswg and we actually derive from the l3 nm and l2nm so this model actually can work together with lcm and l2m to provide a close-loop lifecycle management for vpn service so these usa use cases has been documented in the opswg automation framework which you can publish it and actually we revive this ui topology draft because currently l3 nm lgm are stable so compared to the previous version we make a several change actually first we haven't abandoned the ui topology terminology because this uh technology uh a little bit confusing because it mostly represents a demarcation point in online network between c and pe so we rename uh as sap and to uh add a clarity and in addition actually we clarify how this model relates to the other model for example t topology model nano topology model and this detail has to be uh can be seen in page 10 and also we actually make several changes first actually we we actually augment a nano topology model uh actually it is a network model with a new uh theological uh type list to indicate what a service type we can support for them or errors or vpn or nano sizing and we also add a service type list and a service description for each"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "service attachment pawn in section four and six and we change the type for service attachment to the interface type because it is more reflective what it is in section four and six and in addition in section three we clarify one service multiple view and some other changes including reference update and we also add a new also vector from nokia so today i want to have quick discussion two uh question one is how these work together with l3 nm how it reflected into the lsu and ltm and the other is actually written on the list about what is the usage example look like next so the key elements in this model is sap we call the service attachment point so it is a general concept in the deployment of the network service for example vpn service or html service and actually this sap will use decide where you can attach or where you can deliver the service and actually this model really designed for the service orchestration layer so it provides a capability exposure to the surface oxygen layer so soviet architecture uh layer really want to know the capability of available end points in the connection resource in online networker so in the end to end the connectivity service that may span across the multiple domains so you may need to know uh what is the uh sequence of the domain what is the point of interconnect connection to use so uh the the model design actually we augment from the network model which is rc8345 actually we argument with sap attribute next"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:05",
    "text": "so how it works with lc and m actually uh as we know actually l3nm can be used to configure a vpn service and we can use this sap nano topology model to expose the capability so this can build a closed loop so take a l3 vpn service example so we can provide one vpn service but a multiple view for the custom view it is the first of you uh actually it will relate to the l3 sm and what is the custom view it will tell you how many sides you can create and in which location you can create this side what a sle between the site and in addition actually it will translate into ls3 un actually srm will provide an actually operator view or nano controller view so it really mean actually you can know where you can allocate a pe based on location uh selected by the customers and what rtid are located for the specific pe and in addition we want to provide another third view actually we call the sap view this really helps you to to know where you attach the service in the service topology on overlay topology where you can deliver this kind of service so what is the related physical interface or software interface for server interface which service associated with sub next so here we give a simple example actually they really show you for example soviet oxygen can send a capability query you want to look up some node capability for example take a p x example they really want to look up uh what service we can provide for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "specific uh interface for example g064 or ge06 for so you can see actually for uh g061 actually it's not active but it is ready to receive the service configuration other for the uh the interface g0464 actually it can you know support two separate interfaces one is associated with error vpn the other associated with l2 vpn so we can use this model to represent this kind of node information and expose it to the service operation so they can build this uh automated management tool to know what a service project looks like where the service is attached so it also can be supported in the antenna connective service spanning across malibu domain you know where the services attach in the middle that's it next question comments there was adrian brought up the the work happening in teas in the chat and rob asked is coordination required it sounds like you might already be talking to them but it's it's an important point to raise are you are you collaborating or coordinating with the tease working group yes uh for nano slicing actually there's a design team we actually we do have uh actually met actually follow this activity try to align with another slicing activity aligned with the technology terminology yeah sure good uh okay so um on the working group adoption call this is something we can bring up uh to the list you've presented this before and i know this work has happened in conjunction with the various network"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "models um so to if we can raise it and see what the broader working group feels okay thank you thank you chin and i think this is our last presentation on source address validation uh use cases and gap analysis so uh banching i'm a lantern team can you hear me we can oh okay hello everyone i'm lan chanting from chinghoy university i'm going to present the draft source address validation use cases and gap analysis next one the traditional internet architecture lacks the validation of a package source address a sender can fold the source address when sending packets which is also known as source address spoofing with source address spoofing attackers can carry various attacks such as reflective ddos so source address validation save is necessary mutually agreed norms for routine security manners is calling on network operators to implement save however it's difficult to solve the source address spoofing problem at a single level or through a single save mechanism first is unrealistic to require a sim sieve to be accepted by all networks second the feeling of a single sieve"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:02",
    "text": "mechanism will completely disable save okay next page therefore source address validation architecture server device divides sieve into three checking levels and miners also follows this architecture they are access network sieve intra-es sieve and intro esc there are many save mechanisms for different checking levels for the access network sieve survey was proposed to force each host to use legitimate source address although it provides a host level validation it's fully effective only when deployed by own access networks it's difficult to require all access network networks to deploy sally simultaneously so intro asc and intel esc are more encouraged by miners next one the left figure shows the use cases of intro es and intel esc the four issues belong to the same customer coin and es1 is the stock es the topology of as2 is presented while other asus inner structures are hidden for gravity p1 is the source address prefix of router 3 p1 prime is the spoofed p1 by router 2 p1 double primes is the spoofed p1 by routers in es3 intro esc aims to avoid spoofing from inner es in as2 route 1 and route 4 should drop"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:03",
    "text": "the package with p1 prime from router 2 where except the package with p1 from router 3 inter esc aims to avoid spoofing from external pieces as1 and as4 should drop the package with p1 double primes from es3 while except the package with p1 from es2 next page ifch704 summarizes the recommendations concerning save mechanisms for intra-esc ecl business and strict uips are recommended ac air acr based receive configures matching rules to specify which source prefixes are acceptable but it requires manual configuration to update strict uips takes the source address and the destination address to look up the field and requires the forwarding interface of the field matches the incoming interface of the package for intel es save efp urps is recommended to be deployed at customer interfaces it maintains a rpf list at each customer interface while loose uips is recommended to be deployed at provider and peer interfaces it only requires the source address appears in the field however existing intro and interac mechanisms have inherent force positive or false negative problems next"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:01",
    "text": "strictly urpf xdb is forced positive in the case of routing asymmetry the left figure shows an example the access network owns a prefix due to traffic policy it splits the prefix into two sub-prefixes it advertises one sub-prefix to router one and the other to router two when router 3 forwards package to 10.1.0.0.16 the forwarding path is router 3 router 4 router 2 and access network the reverse path is access network route 1 and router 3. when router 3 runs strict uips the save rule is packaged with source addresses of 10.1.0.0.16 must arrive from router 4 so the reverse data flow will be dropped in general existing intro esc mechanism has forced positive problems next page for inter escape mechanisms efp urps and the loose urpf have inherited force negative problems we take as4 as an example as5 is its provider s3 is experienced as1 and s2 are its customers when s4 runs efp uips at customer interfaces the same rule is packaged with source addresses belonging to es4's customer code can arrive from every customer so it says in es4 customer coin converts"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:02",
    "text": "each other when as4 runs lose at provider and peer interfaces the received rule is packaged with any source addresses existing field can arrive from every provider appear so this is outside es4's customer coin converts any source addressing fee in general existing inter afc mechanisms have forced negative problems next page an ideal save mechanism should guarantee accuracy because force positives cause traffic disruption while false negatives give attackers the freedom to forge source addresses however as aforementioned existing save mechanisms cannot guarantee accuracy the root cause of their inca inaccuracy is that they are achieved based on local fib or rib information which may not match the real detail forwarding path from other sources next page in order to avoid false positives and reduce false negatives as much as possible save should follow the real data forwarding path to this end a path probing method can be taken that is the source router sends probing packets carrying source information then each intermediate router can generate safe rules based on source information and the incoming interface more specifically when interfaces cannot learn complete forwarding information a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "combination of allow list and the block list can improve the accuracy besides design designing a practical probing method needs to consider many practical issues such as high skill ability the design should not induce much overhead and high deplorability the design should get generate seal table automatically and support incremental deployment the high security the design should guarantee the integrity of each probing package next page so we are to promote this work we have three candidates into area since sawa and savvy are adopted by inter area rtg because intro asc and the intro asc are related to routine opsec since efp urpf is adopted by opi sec or others we sincerely said comments to refine our draft and seek collaborators thanks any question or comment uh we are out of time lynching and i i adrian mentioned that when you discuss this in um interior the recommendation was to discuss with opsec which i think makes sense so i i would suggest bringing it up over there would be a good next step okay thank you thanks and well with that we are just about two minutes remaining um i don't know warren rob if you want to say any parting words uh and then we can let everyone go"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:01",
    "text": "yep i guess i'll quickly just say something so first off thanks again to the ops awg chairs for you know doing this and um we let them have the extra time if anybody would like to come and talk to robert about any ops area stuff we will both be looking in gather town so um you know that will be basically our equivalent of the normal ops area open mic so see you all there if you would like to come along and chat with us thank you everyone have a great rest of ietf 112 and a great rest of your day however long is left thank you very much thanks everybody for attending bye"
  }
]
