[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "they didn\u0027t know why we were even asking I had sent invitations out to the ietf liaisons list and some of the feedback I got was wait why this is not the kind of information we share with our with our points of contact and and they didn\u0027t no one came to any of the calls and there were other groups that I tried to reach out to what we ended up hearing was that it would be more powerful to say okay you don\u0027t have to sit there and make sausage with us but could you at least join us at breakfast and see how that goes okay the third and final of these meetings had six people so we had this great step function as we went through and this group also said that IAD involvement is critical for all sorts of reasons this is where there was a suggestion to bring in past IAB and ITF chairs as core membership because they presumably would have a longer term vision now part of what made that funny is the person who suggested it at the time also said that would be me but I don\u0027t want to do that so but the idea was out there they really wanted the group to look to the the long term structure of the RFC editor this is not about short-term tactical things this is a we need to come up with a model that will actually survive for more than two or three years we\u0027re looking at more like eight ten twelve we\u0027ll see some of the long term structural issues that they felt this group really need to clearly focus on this group being you know whatever program or working group is put together would be things like business issues where where funding should come from administration who and how hiring and firing should be handled and editorial control how does that work who gets to say no to publishing something and under what circumstances it was fairly clear that one one of the things that the IETF community is really good at is developing heroes people you know you you you you get these individuals and the rolls are built around the individual and what the individual can do because the individual is really good at that but then if that individual changes people want the role to change because they\u0027re not sure they\u0027re going to trust the next person as much as they trusted the original entity um that makes it really hard to actually define a role and if you put something out for contract you can\u0027t say well here\u0027s what the contract is and we\u0027ll add more later if we decide we trust you trust me that does not work well so there were there are meetings here\u0027s you know basically the summary we\u0027ve got consistent you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:06",
    "text": "know open and open participation as a fundamental necessity something that looks like a working group including the the potential for an initial design team did I mention the open participation and making sure this is as transparent as possible that that was a pretty common theme throughout and focus more in the long term in the short term so the proposal and this was put together in an internet draft how many of you have read the internet drafts I love you guys you\u0027re awesome thank you was that this proposal is that this in fact become an IV program with open membership strong support for remote participation and a group that would produce regular meeting minutes and community updates in whatever forum makes the most sense the scope of work would include you know just determining what is the full scope of responsibilities within the RFC editor in particular that those for the RFC series editor to consider and propose business and administration requirements funding management that kind of thing and also to actively solicit input from organizations that are going to be impacted by changes in the series whether or not they want to actually have anything to do with with guiding that one way or the other they\u0027re still going to have to consume what comes out of it and therefore they do have a certain stake in the game there\u0027s been some discussion on the RFC interest list about the draft and also on on my advisory group which is a very unofficial group of folks that that I use as a brain trust periodically but I suspect there are things that could be improved in that draft there are things that could be improved in the proposal of how to run this and that\u0027s what I was hoping we would discuss today we already have a jabber scribe Thank You Adrian and we have a note-taker Thank You Sara when you come to the mic if you would say your name slowly and clearly I would appreciate it as wit Sara and for the folks who are on me deco I apologize for not being a working group chair I will do my best this is Adrian on that meet echo point since you weren\u0027t in the jabber room while you were talking me Tech has only just come up so the remote people have missed apart from your slides they\u0027d miss hearing your wonderful voice but hopefully I\u0027m not doing all that again hmm wait a minute I need I need to see who\u0027s on me deck Oh if the me deco folks do have like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:06",
    "text": "specific questions about stuff let me know I guess the one thing I would really focus Terry much on talking about the process of making decisions we\u0027re not talking about the decisions themselves and the different possibilities for how they the RC edit or model could go that\u0027s that\u0027s out of scope for today okay and with that I will open for discussion hi I just one comment so I mean we have an RFC that describes the RFC editor model so is the output what you\u0027re proposing revision of that I would expect that would be part of the scope yes so if if the group decides it necessary I mean I it would be also perfectly reasonable to say the RFC editor model to still should make sense it just wasn\u0027t implemented well if that\u0027s if that\u0027s what the group decides that\u0027s also perfectly reasonable well I mean so I mean I was involved in the BIST that is now in the RFC editor for the LLC changes and I think there were some issues there\u0027s some things of the documents that kill you don\u0027t match the current reality so I don\u0027t know if this is the right so I think this would be a good place to yeah that work yes there we go okay Ted Hardy speaking I just wanted to reaffirm based on the discussions the IB had earlier the summer that were clearly happy to do whatever the community wants here including spin up a program according to the lights that the draft suggests think you did oh hello Brian crock and sir I keep annoying Ted with this but I think I\u0027d want to say it here because it\u0027s my fault that the IB Charter doesn\u0027t actually describe what the IB does in respect of the RFC editor because it has some very specific wording in which possibly was originally written by Christiaan actually in the previous version of the Charter saying that what the IB does is approve the appointment of an organisation to act as RFC editor and and its general policy or words to that effect I think reality is for the last 10 years at least the IB has done more than that and I think one outcome of this process should be that the IV takes it upon itself to propose an update to its own Charter to make sure the Charter actually describes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:06",
    "text": "reality you\u0027re all we just reality to match the Charter in that you know the discrepancy shouldn\u0027t shouldn\u0027t survive I\u0027d also make a request to the IB that it will be very helpful as this process goes forward if the IAB itself affirms the independent editorial status of the RFC editor because to me that was always obvious we didn\u0027t write it down and we should have done no it\u0027s okay uncle I just wanted to know if I needed to go to the other line right i-601 happening another um please yeah okay this is a general in preparation for this meeting I not only read reread the RFC editor and I asked at 2.0 and I read your document so this is a reflection on both since you\u0027re proposing a since bob was talking very generally about a revision of that document there it seems to be someplace in all of this for a respect of trust that seems to be missing in the documents in in in modern oh you\u0027re getting coffee that\u0027s a very important thing to listen with tell me when you\u0027re ready okay good there have been numerous books read about written about the speed of trust and and a respect for professionalism and the startup model and I find this lacking so when you talk about there\u0027s just feedback when you talk about orchestrating such and such it appears like you\u0027re treating the RFC editor like a bureaucracy point when by the structure presented in both documents the person there\u0027s a highly skilled professional and should be treated as such so it all of this discussion I know it\u0027s about process but the thing I find missing in the process is the place for the respect of the professionalism that we have and all of us are here are professionals most of us have advanced degrees a person who comes with library science is an equal professional with equals standards I I the feedback is I don\u0027t see that in this and I find that a missing piece because in a contract it it\u0027s under at-will employment at-will employment says we\u0027re both working together for a professional goal if we both think it\u0027s not working we discontinue because it\u0027s not working and no harm no foul we\u0027re gonna go home and play in our corners by ourselves that\u0027s that\u0027s not here at all in this in these documents or in this dream or in this discussion and I find that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:07",
    "text": "problematic since that is the essence of what makes startups go fast and I think we want to go fast with our publications and with our with our work Thank You Ted Hardy I wanted to go back to the process issue that Brian raised and I\u0027m sorry go ahead I was supposed to give my name\u0027s sue Harris Brian was requesting that an output of this process be that the IB adjust its Charter to match the reality that resulted from the end of the process and well I think that\u0027s a valid outcome it can\u0027t be through an IEP program because the BCP because the IB Charter is a PCP it\u0027s an ITF output and it needs an IETF process to approve it however one possibility here might be that the the results of the IB program could be a proposal that could go to the recently minted gen dispatch process for figuring out how it became an actual DCP but just I think it\u0027s quite important to note that the the IAB doesn\u0027t update its own Charter it doesn\u0027t have that right or power Thank You Leslie Leslie Nagel and I\u0027m gonna I\u0027m not sure that I agree with what Ted just said but I\u0027d have to go digging um I stood up here because I wanted to talk a little bit about in that and talking about the process the how I think we also need to make sure we\u0027re clear on the what what you were articulating a moment ago included you know talking about how do we fund the RFC editor how do we do this how do we do that and I\u0027m very concerned that we start a process that looks like saying hey let\u0027s define an a document publication system let\u0027s do it all from you know table Raza which I don\u0027t think is the ask so maybe part of the how is to first articulate what are the top order problems that we think we have to solve and stay focused on those Thank You Becker yeah it\u0027s Erica scroller I mean this overall plan seems generally sound I I think I wouldn\u0027t there have been the document about how did we should I shares my view could candidates first in this I think probably that\u0027s not a good plan okay excellent I guess I I\u0027m restraining myself oh no but I guess I\u0027ve asked others written those would probably don\u0027t have to have discussion about the substantive outcomes right here I\u0027m sure we also at them but I think right I think less whose point about what\u0027s the scope is relevant I think certainly we should be he\u0027s read that money from this comes from the LLC and light that\u0027s sort of that sort of stuff but I think you know the the a from from from my perspective you know that we should be assuming that but that the overall question is at what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:08",
    "text": "best serves the needs of the community I\u0027m going forward into the next as you say ten or whatever years thank you I think Mike st. John\u0027s I\u0027ve got three things let me hit eckers first one of the problems were having is who gets to call consensus the reason for suggesting the chairs was a passed a level of expertise with respect to the IETF and the community and some measure of crust if you will so that was the set of P set of people that might have made made sense for that so I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s where we\u0027re gonna go but at some point in time somebody\u0027s gonna have to decide what the consensus is and we got to figure out to do that in a way that\u0027s neutral between the sides that are that are currently lining up here with respect to with respect to the output of this thing I think we\u0027re looking for eventually a BCP as the output of this of this process which means it will be a community consensus not an IAB consensus on the IAB program that we\u0027re standing up okay people may disagree with that but I think if that\u0027s where we\u0027re going that\u0027s what we should be looking at and the third thing I think is the IAB ought to think about what it wants its role to be in this thing and actually come forward with a consensus document from themselves about what their what they think the role should be going forward so okay thank you Suzanne Suzanne Wolfe I think I\u0027m just like lead to my surprise I\u0027m about to reinforce what Mike just said the critic the critical point here might well be who calls consensus or what do we do to guarantee the process terminates if consensus turns out to be as difficult as it looks like it might be because we did all of this not so very long ago I mean I feel old saying that but it doesn\u0027t seem like it was that long ago and we did have as I recall a fairly hard-fought plan to basically reuse existing process in a way that meant that we were in a situation then where the process the process of figuring out this model had to terminate decisions had to be made in order for the function to continue to be performed where in roughly that situation now which means we do need a forcing function because we can\u0027t you know we can\u0027t let this drag on indefinitely and sort of putting on those kind of constraints and figuring out how to reuse existing legitimate process to make sure that this process terminates seems like a really important first order priority Thank You Leslie Leslie they go again just following up my side remark about Ted\u0027s comment on updating RC 2850 and and not to grind down on a detail but because I think it\u0027s an important point about what the IAB "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:09",
    "text": "should feel it can and cannot do so RFC 2850 as a BCP is indeed subject to is G approval it is as my exceed John\u0027s articulated a question of getting community consensus on any changes but speaking as somebody who used to sit in the ivy chair role and went through many years of you know feeling me what can we do but what can\u0027t we do if it comes to updating the IAB charter first order priority is to do the right thing and make it read the right way and if the IB has to you know have a glaring match with the is G over you know approve this or not that\u0027s the job anyway my point being really that it\u0027s in some of what Ted said and I\u0027ll be glad to have him clarify so that I don\u0027t walk away out of the room feeling this way it sounded a little bit like well we\u0027d like to do that but we\u0027re not sure we can or you know whatever the IB is not subject to the IAS G okay since I think this is a direct response why don\u0027t you go ahead Ted Hardy speaking so I think that the point I was making is a process point we\u0027re here to discuss the process and Brian\u0027s point was that he wanted to see a change to the IB Charter to reflect the reality that comes out of this community process and I\u0027m happy to agree with him that that\u0027s a value a valuable output but I think I wanted to make the point that once it has come out of this process that output then has to go through the ITF process because it\u0027s updating a BCP now if you want to put that as a ESG approval of it sure I think it\u0027s more important that the community is a whole approves of it and so it has to go through the ITF last call process and the other processes Jen dispatch has been created for mechanisms like that where some other thing has been created externally that\u0027s more or less ready for ITF discussion and that\u0027s the point I was making I continue to think however that if the if the folks in this room agree with Mike st. John that the output of this is of ECP and that therefore it\u0027s something that reflects that sort of consensus then running an ITF working group like process in the IAB and then bringing it over to the ITF to create a BCP is an extra step you could simply run the ITF working group like process in the IETF because you\u0027re still gonna have to have the isg come to consensus on the output in order for it to become a BCP so I think there\u0027s a there\u0027s a real question there of whether you want the the process that runs to be just IETF like or an IETF process if if what you\u0027re doing is updating the current documents the way "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:09",
    "text": "Bob Hinton put them then an IEP process that runs with open participation and selected chair from the community is perfectly fine at doing that because those are IEP documents and the IEP can update those without then going to get the is G\u0027s approval but if what you eventually want is the aSG\u0027s approval then the simplest way to do that is to run the process the IHG manages okay well we\u0027ll have one more on this topic but then I want to get to the rest of the line um I think Ted misunderstood me or was conflating a couple of different things I\u0027m I\u0027m suggesting that the output of this thing is a BCP which means it\u0027s community consensus I\u0027m suggesting that the IAD separately look at its role and provide input into the BCP and then as its own action figure out what it needs to do about its Charter okay aeryn aeryn Faulk full disclosure I served as part of the IRC editor at one time currently a member of the RFC series advisory group two comments and I have to say my thoughts are still kind of forming on this but one when we talk about sort of creating this activity and it is without sort of talking in a detail about the what it\u0027s a blank box I feel like it would be important as an early output would be sort of a statement of principles right I think that one of the things I think that\u0027s defined the RFC series advisory group has been a sense of stewardship there\u0027s a lot of history here there\u0027s a real attempt to have continuity in how our documents are handled and I think that that\u0027s the kind of thing that there should be some sort of guideposts for whatever the the output of this activity comes that it\u0027s is you know the things that the group believes it supports as principles that would make me feel a lot better as a participant or just an observer of of that activity and the other thing is kind of an it but it really got to me that in one of the calls the third call I think the summary said the group should come up with the process for the long term six to eight years for a 50-year document series and then somebody else maybe it was Ted said our baby was eckers ten years I think that we should believe whatever we come up with can survive at least 10 years preferably longer but I think six to eight years is if too short I\u0027ll just leave it at that Harold Harilal lustrum I\u0027m thinking of Einstein Colt or attribute Einstein which is saying that you cannot solve problems by the same means that you used to create "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:09",
    "text": "them thank you so in this particular context I am worried that we are we have a discussion of substance of getting to the right decision and we have a decision of formalities which is getting the result of that decision through the process to be published and we\u0027re mixing them the basis for this whole shenanigan was that our recent escapades starting with our fc+ person some well before and after that have shown that there\u0027s a disconnect between leadership and community in what we should do therefore it\u0027s a process that needs to come up with the right solutions needs to be outside of the current established procedures an IETF working group which shares approved by the eius eius tree is not appropriate however when that process whatever it is concludes we will run the standard process of the IETF to have the resulting documents stamped with whatever stamps they need to have um if at that point someone wishes to refight the battles I am sure that the recent discussion about recall possessions will become significant again I hope will not get there because I believe sincerely that this community has a strong will to get to do the right thing no matter what our differences of opinion have been in the past Brian I paranal outgoing IAB first thank you very much for running this process in this document I think the the principles of the process that are laid out here are perfectly reasonable insane and like everything here is just a tweak to that I want to reiterate what Erin said I think it is very good guidance to say we should split the principles from the process discussion first year and then in this program because I\u0027ve seen through this entire thing we get we get really tied up on the details of the process and we can lose track of what it is we\u0027re actually trying to do so I think we should come to agreement on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:10",
    "text": "what it is we\u0027re trying to do and then let\u0027s argue the point to process having said that I\u0027m gonna nitpick the process here a little bit one so this I\u0027m a manager now actually so I will take that as a compliment this this document is essentially a recommendation to the IAB that it should create a program I\u0027ve noticed through this entire discussion that there is less trust of goodwill on all sides that I have seen in many other discussions in the IETF space so a mere recommendation to the IAB that it create a program which the IAB can create and destroy programs that will may or may not be enough for the community I would caution in saying in taking a document like this and making it more than informational like so that the framework around the earth Sauk essentially says the IAB you this program the IB can\u0027t close the our sock that if we have a process document that then you know creates the program separate from the IEP as well to create and destroy the program it will um which I think is possibly a good idea just to make sure that you know that can\u0027t happen that it be time limited in summary in some way because otherwise we will for this particular run of the process create a little bit more bureaucratic technical debt and I think that would be a bad outcome so just one caution I think that\u0027s I mean seems pretty reasonable but otherwise thank you very much for this and I look forward to participating the program discussion Thank You Leslie um Leslie Daigle and I think Harold articulated it well in terms of making sure that we make it separation between how we achieve an articulation of what good looks like and improve our future from what is the process by which we will produce the output so I think that\u0027s important to keep in mind because my earlier comment about scope top order priority I think is that to address the fact that the problems that we have the ONC\u0027s that we have felt about our FC series over the course of the last 18 months has often circulated around the concern of whether or not the RFC series is an IETF document publication stream only which it historically has not been arguably should not be going forward so unless it has already been decided that the IETF that the RFC series is an IETF publication series period the location for the discussions of what is necessary for the outcome should not be uniquely within the IETF which is why a working group is not an IETF working group is not the appropriate location for this discussion even if the ultimate documents have to go through the IETF "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:10",
    "text": "process for approval Ted that hurt I believe that the key question here that people have been going back and forth on is who eventually has to approve the document that will describe the new state of play I think the result of that may actually be something we want to delay deciding until we see what the new state of play looks like my view of the document Heather is written is that it suggests a process for coming out with an output and if we want to say okay we\u0027re we\u0027re all happy enough with the open process under the aegis of the IAB with the trusted chairs managing the consensus then we can decide later what process we need for the publication of its outputs because the publication of its outputs might in fact turn out to be from a a different view of the world than the one we have now I think that if we\u0027re willing to consider that then we don\u0027t need to decide now whether a BCP or an IB stream document or some other stream document is the eventual output of the group and that since I would like us to make progress today I\u0027m gonna suggest we consider the question of the stream of the output separately if folks are willing to do that I think we may end up in a situation in the future where we get multiple streams to agree we\u0027ve certainly had documents in the past like the an a transition documents where more than one body indicated its assent to a document as it went through the process and that we may be able to move forward that way but I think I would very much like to get some agreement today on the process that we want to use moving forward while we still have this group gathered together and Heather\u0027s advice on it and I don\u0027t want to to concern extremely much although I think there\u0027s been some valuable discussion with what the output documents stream is because I think the output of the of the group may have an impact thank you um Wes the Necker West heard Acharya say I like what Ted just sent but to rephrase it in a different way it was just how I was planning on phrasing it is it feels like we are trying to come up with the results and how things are going to flow without even gotten through the design phase of knowing what it\u0027s me and it\u0027s very hard to go I need to figure out how "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:10",
    "text": "to get to point B my final conclusion and this this architecture without knowing you know what we actually want as a result so in terms of trying to walk through you know what process steps do we need it feels way too early and what we need right now is a is a to formulate how we can have that initial design discussion and you know where that should be and I think the you know the proposal of an IV open IAB works work area or an IETF working group I don\u0027t really care because I think the process steps are actually gonna occur after that and once we know okay we want these outputs and that may be changing charters to all sorts of stuff and as an IAB member not speaking for the rest of the IV I am more than happy to change the IAB charter to reflect the needs of the community because that\u0027s what I want right I want the entire community to be happy with these results and that brings me to my final point which is that calling consensus is not nearly as important as getting the community to agree that that was the right call right if one group has to call for consensus and then there\u0027s gonna be a fight over it that\u0027s a huge issue because that means that there is it there is a disagreement and it\u0027s much more important to get into a forum where consensus is gonna happen anyway and that the the end result of the groupthink will be yeah you know maybe not everybody agrees but but everybody does agree that that you know the majority of the opinion went that direction thank you Hecker yeah April yeah I think there in a couple sort of process and trying to keep my my thoughts about the process issues were raised here I think one is what is the forum forum for discussion and trying to bring about some sort consensus and the second is you know what is the minimum threshold of people who must have a cent to these other changes once they\u0027ve come about working backwards from that I I agree with Ted that like we\u0027d have to like knowing what the changes are would kind of tell you who had to have a cent and you might find later that you know as a concrete example you know say that the proposal is that we know we spent over a million dollars a year to like you know spin up a new publication how it\u0027s the stamps things I\u0027m like the whole tablets then presumably that we want the old see the sign off on that even though otherwise wouldn\u0027t see wouldn\u0027t have seen like a process like a change um I think you know it\u0027s pretty clear like the idea she\u0027s gonna have to sign up on this like actually is all the representative the ietf and like what do you think there\u0027s a night if only thing or like an ITF important thing it\u0027s clearly I gives an enormous consumer of the service as the idea that like we may change that in the I issue we hate it just off not something a function what kind of output may be people differently about that actually screws didn\u0027t say that the in terms of process um you know I don\u0027t say like a huge amount of difference between like functionally between like an IETF working group and um and what suggested here I think wasn\u0027t perfectly fine um you know um I guess what I would say I think in particular the primary difference seems to me to be like a points to chairs um I certainly would like Mike want this to be run at least somewhat like an ITF working group and it seems like we might as well voiced the mechanisms we already have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:10",
    "text": "for trying to have like consensus legitimacy out of the ITF process don\u0027t we can I\u0027ve been on a number of IV programs they tend to be a tiny bit chaotic um and if we\u0027re looking for a broad community consensus we already have a core set of processes are designed to do that that the IEP program is really designed to um but IIIi don\u0027t know not to say like it has to be like MIT or working group in the sense it\u0027s like on the data tracker in this bitter place or you know or that it has to have like a it be in the general area and with that but like let\u0027s not spend like a year like reinventing all our processes for like for like having discussions and committee consensus um also we have to thank you pitch yeah rich sauce Akamai I guess um I\u0027m also like I share the concern of the previous five people who spoke about let\u0027s not get wrapped up in process um because I think we have a time line that we need to consider working groups are not good at meeting timelines and I think also there\u0027s an acknowledgement that it this is bigger than just the IETF therefore bigger than just the iesg I found it really interesting that the readouts from three sessions you held over the course of time the opinion of the quality or the word the value of the IAB went up significantly right no no never - yeah maybe - yeah we should so I yeah let\u0027s first get some documents written I don\u0027t care maybe get just a mailing list on the you know on data tracker that\u0027s fine and then we\u0027ll then you shop appropriately thank you : hi : Perkins I just like to echo some of those previous comments the the RFC serious publishes documents for much more than just the IETF so while the IETF is send me an important body I don\u0027t think this should be an IETF working group because it\u0027s a broader discussion although a working group like process seems very reasonable Aaron Aaron Falk again so I have a question I guess for you and for the room so we\u0027re creating this new thing but there\u0027s a bunch of existing things we have the RFC series Oversight Committee we are we are acquiring a temporary caretaker manager something and I\u0027m wondering if as part of your proposal you have any thoughts on how those roles or individuals would engage in this effort automatically included excluded you know what do you think what do others think I actually mentioned that in the draft that I felt the RC series Oversight Committee should focus much more on the immediate operational issues while this is running and and not while our sock members "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:11",
    "text": "should absolutely be you know a part of whatever program comes together that it\u0027s not their purview to run it or bless it or share it or anything like that or participate in no I they they can participate but I would see it as participating as individuals who happen to have experience because they\u0027re on the are sock and in the other role that the temporary thing if that person again wants to participate as an informed individual I don\u0027t think there\u0027s a problem with that just ask Aaron do you have a concern with the are sock participating as in do I totally agree this is not a statement for the are sock uh previous disc on don\u0027t know take or Sarah charity are sock I know Aaron did a good job so I\u0027m not speaking for the are sock other than for myself and I totally agree with what Heather\u0027s proposing but because you asked the question it makes me wonder are you concerned if the are sock as individuals participates in this process I guess if I would be uncomfortable if folks who are in a in an administrative or oversight role in how things have been operating were in a leadership position for this sort of reforming activities so I don\u0027t have any problem with participating I think that it should be open the more informed members of the community the better but I think when it comes I think that the issue of like getting agreement and calling consensus and you know somebody invoke the ITF process so that maybe there\u0027s appeals and you know I think that there\u0027s I think that the that and I think this this is kind of a principle that comes out in the proposal that the idea is to have this be kind of a community driven thing and that it will feel more like a community driven thing if folks who are sort of in the current administration and leadership aren\u0027t in the administration leadership of the effort so you\u0027re saying the are sock members should not be up for consideration as chairs of whatever this is going to be that would be my personal opinion yes would that extend to the IB members as well yeah yep and I think that was also in in the draft that these need to be community members not IAB not our shot Martin yeah so I\u0027m Alan Thompson I think a lot of this discussion has been really constructive and and good I think it really goes to the center of the question which is how do we build this process that has legitimacy to the extent that we can rely on the decisions that it makes and the question of whether I be members are chairs of this processes is I think critical if if the IAB are going to be for instance on the appeals chain which is something you haven\u0027t mentioned in your document then I can\u0027t see that any there being any way of putting them in both tiers of that chain I don\u0027t think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:12",
    "text": "that makes any sense at all for the legitimacy of the process we don\u0027t put area directors as chairs of working groups that they oversee themselves and generally speaking we don\u0027t have area directors as working group chairs period because of the requirement to have this sort of second level check which gets me to the next point a lot of this rides on who we put in this critical consensus calling position I assume that the responsibility for assigning those individuals will also be on the IEP as a whole is that the a group is that what people in this room are assuming because I\u0027m hearing a lot of assuming and know not a lot of saying explicitly so I can clear that up thought I had put in the draft that the IID would I didn\u0027t write it down I was thinking it really hard that the ID would appoint the chairs but they would appoint the chairs after like sending out a a call for both volunteers and feedback on on the individuals to the community I think that would be the responsible thing to do I couldn\u0027t find it just scrolling through the document I did find the fact that I passed ITF chairs would be a good one you said you removed that don\u0027t they okay then I pulled my bo3 that I haven\u0027t posted yet maybe there\u0027s some draft sitting around some way that has the text it\u0027s right over there all right Thank You Steven hi Steven Farrell but I think any member who wanted to try and chair something I this would be a total lunatic in just one point I thought rich I almost touched on it but I think it would be good to give some clarity to the IAB as to when you\u0027re if the ivy is picking chairs are doing something in this space are forming a program I think it would be good to get some input as to plain you would like that to happen because I just don\u0027t want to see the I be surprising the community yeah so telling us when to do stuff as well as well so we don\u0027t kind of think we know to do it now and other people don\u0027t think that would be I think a really good thing to do okay so yeah avoiding the IAB surprising the community again is a really good thing to do words to live by Randy Randy Bush I know this is not an ITF meeting because I did not see the note well no it was well I did I\u0027m sorry I thought this was the social engineering task force nope I did it and I think we have a tension between it was the I star that got us in this pickle but we want the wisdom of some of them to get us out of this pickle and I don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:13",
    "text": "think engineers are fungible I think that assumption is part of what got us in this pickle and sorry further its obscure English term fungible means exchangeable you can just take a senior person and throw them out and issue a contract and I think what sue said I don\u0027t need to repeat it Thank You Annie mark hi I\u0027m Mark Nottingham I like I think the gentle approach outlined is fine and I\u0027m rereading it and then reading some parts the first time perhaps from at least my memories bad it\u0027s apparent to me just by listening between the lenses that were here that that you know there are still a lot of strongly felt healing feelings here and I\u0027m a little nervous about the proposal in that it\u0027s it\u0027s saying that this is a program of the IAB and it\u0027s gonna run on consensus as defined rough consensus as defined in Pete\u0027s document which is it not standards track it\u0027s it\u0027s informational and that\u0027s a process that I personally I love that document and it did perhaps I love it because it puts a lot of power in chairs hands high you know the chair has to make a call sometimes and the document explicitly lays out that you know there are cases where there are five people who are correct and there are a hundred people who are wrong and you go with the five because they\u0027re the ones who have made the technically correct argument and I think that\u0027s a again a fantastic document but in the dynamics of this situation that puts a tremendous amount of power in the chairs hands and what\u0027s making me nervous is not necessarily that but that in combination with the fact that the appeals chain is very fuzzy I am worried that we\u0027re gonna get to a situation where this group comes to some rough consensus by that definition and it\u0027s gonna be rough I don\u0027t think everybody\u0027s gonna agree and somebody\u0027s going to be unhappy or a group of people are gonna be unhappy and they\u0027re gonna want to take it forth and it\u0027s not defined explicitly but because it\u0027s an IB program it\u0027ll probably get taken forth to the IAB and then passed that because it\u0027s an IAB program it gets even fuzzier and so that could be a recipe for a really bad situation so I would ask you to think a little bit more carefully about explicitly laying out how that kind of situation would play out at least so that we go into it under standing that\u0027s a risk mm-hmm what I was hoping with using a little bit of author license is my my observation of the community over the last eight years is that it each group as they try and define you know what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:13",
    "text": "consensus is going to be it gets squirrely and I wanted to just cut that conversation right out and say look you know this this is a reasonable way so use this don\u0027t have that conversation about what what is consensus in this forum and that in a way that\u0027s what the role of the I be would be is when consensus is called by the chairs if there\u0027s any issue with how that was done and if it wasn\u0027t done according to the guidelines as set that\u0027s where the I be should be stepping in and saying wait something broke and I think that\u0027s good I think maybe just spell that a little more explicitly that you know the IAB is that has that role and if there is a role beyond that it would be good to say that and if there isn\u0027t it would be good to say that but but let\u0027s not get into a situation where it\u0027s unclear and we\u0027re already in a crisis sounds good Martin and then I\u0027ll try and sum up yeah so I\u0027m not insulting I\u0027m worrying worried a little bit about the level of formalism we have around this specific document so what I what I\u0027m hearing here is that we\u0027re getting what in in my view at least this room is largely coming to the conclusion that the document that you the proposal that you have is sound might need a few tweaks but is basically sound the process by which we formalize that agreement is a lot of what the rest of this process rests on and it suffers from exactly the same problems as the process that it\u0027s trying to formalize so I\u0027m going to put out there that this document is updated maybe one more time maybe two more times and we talked about it just a little bit more on the mailing list and and and and so we can flush out any final problems but then it goes no further than that listen this is not an RC this is an agreement that will not be formalized to the extent that it requires we answer the question of which stream it\u0027s published on I am right there with you and actually on the are sock agenda on Thursday I point-blank asked you know the are Sox opinion they don\u0027t they don\u0027t know this yet they haven\u0027t seen the slides um do I publish this document you know do I request it be published I agree with you I\u0027m not actually sure it should be published as an RFC I think having it written in a familiar structure as an internet draft makes all the sense in the world but I don\u0027t I don\u0027t see it as an RC yeah and and and the reason I say that is that it\u0027s it\u0027s an awkward position to be in we\u0027re going to be depending on the procedures that are written down in this document and if we do for instance cite the consensus and humming ROC there now that may be part of the formal process that this follows and if there are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:13",
    "text": "appeals those appears we\u0027ll have to consider that document so it\u0027s a little bit awkward but as long as everyone here and and on the mailing list are comfortable with that I think we can proceed I think it comes back to you know first order of businesses do the right thing and then the second order of business is make sure that the process match is the right thing to do you know if needed if it needs to be changed Eric\u0027s role um since as we mentioned twice I feel compelled to mention that document has no normative force whatsoever so will be a concrete decision to adopt that document is not part of idea process in any way yes yes and I guess I should say I wouldn\u0027t be in favor of it so you think it must be published as an IRC wait I may have misunderstood that\u0027s right what I\u0027m saying is the consensus of humming document which Martin is referring to it\u0027s not a BCP if there\u0027s no is not a consensus it\u0027s not a consensus document of an ITF process and I don\u0027t think we should adopt it as a process here okay I just want to go on the record as saying I agree with mark I\u0027m a little surprised that we are there was such brouhaha over our sock and IAB and all this good stuff in the summer and yet we\u0027re back following trucking down a process that puts things back in the hands of the IAB and so that\u0027s fine we can totally agree to do that but I think we should be extremely crystal clear as to exactly what that means and what that doesn\u0027t mean so we don\u0027t get halfway down or into the homestretch and went consensus is rough and I totally agree with that too everybody\u0027s not freaking out over whatever they\u0027re going to freak out about because it was clearly painfully stated at the top of the hour okay as I said earlier I think the IB is totally willing to follow what the community wants to do here including following the process you\u0027ve outlined and one simple way to do that might make might mean taking the meat of what you\u0027ve written and the I be agreeing that the output should be the program description and that means that we have the community process that led to it in forming the description of the program that the IB will then use to guide its understanding of it as it goes for it and that\u0027s particularly important because the IB will have a large change over this year there are several people who are not returning and so the result of that will be it would be very useful to have this community process any IAB program description so that the new IEP coming in is firmly aware of what the community expects sounds good what\u0027s her Tucker is a I\u0027d like to propose that all meeting rooms have only one microphone "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:13",
    "text": "so I know where to walk through because it keeps switching yep sorry the offhand comment doesn\u0027t need a loud echo anyway I\u0027ve been thinking about you know how one of the things that keeps sort of reoccurring in this conversation is the notion of bias and the fact that we have all of these different parties that have a very vested interest in this outcome and the reality is is that all the people that want to contribute to the discussion likely are coming from a source of bias regardless of whether they\u0027re on a board now whether there used to be on a board whether on their committee now you know everybody has a notion of where they\u0027re coming from and and the only way that you can get around a situation where almost all of the participants in a discussion have bias is to make sure that all of the biases included as a balance point and so one of the thoughts that I came to is we you know we typically we\u0027ve been we\u0027ve been talking about chairs but we haven\u0027t talked about number of chairs and so when you look at other models like Supreme Court\u0027s and various countries you know they include lots of different viewpoints with lots of different bias so that when a decision is made like calling for consensus or something like that both sides get to you know to declare their opinion there\u0027s a some sort of vote then they you know there\u0027s dissenting opinions published and you know the United States now has nine Supreme Court justices they used to have five and four before that I don\u0027t know what the right number is but it sure seems to me like one way around some of this this processes that actually include a lot of different biased viewpoints so that when a decision is made and hopefully it would be unanimous you\u0027d have a much better faith in that final decision that that\u0027s an interesting idea my first concern would be of course ending up instead of coming together as informing compromises and whatnot is you end up with this logjam of too many people who just won\u0027t let go we\u0027d have to see all right Mike your last person okay Mike st. John\u0027s what\u0027s popped up something and it\u0027s actually not the worst idea I\u0027ve heard I I\u0027m sorry I didn\u0027t need to say it that way there\u0027s a model that\u0027s used for mediation sometimes where each side picks mm-hmm they\u0027re their person and then the two people agree upon a third that may be a model for this particular thing where we we we bring that down and then the vote is on those three people Harold it better be short because I want to sum up chairs are supposed to be facilitators of reach finding the group consensus having voting chairs would be a completely new process in ITF contexts okay I don\u0027t want to have a 5 to 4 volt cage match at the chair table is not a good idea agree okay um this was a really really "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:14",
    "text": "helpful conversation I think and and thanks everyone to for keeping it fairly on point what I\u0027m hearing at the end of it is you know the as I as I said before first order of businesses is just everyone putting their heart into doing the right thing and figuring out some of the the you know not trying to define the process end to end right now because we just don\u0027t have enough information to do it it does sound like an IEP program is is still more or less the way to go it\u0027s it\u0027s got some legitimate concerns and if we document what those concerns are we can at least say we we consider this this is where we are worried and as future Ivy\u0027s look at the community discussion they can say oh well this this is something we need to be particularly sensitive to because of how the community is approaching the whole thing I\u0027ve got some work to do in the draft to be a little bit clearer about what the appeals process will be and just in terms and that one I think is kind of okay to to define earlier rather than later and I can certainly work on that I will have that done possibly by the end of this week if folks want to talk to me on the side about anything further that\u0027s totally cool too and I wish you all very much the best as you move forward with this with this program as you participate in it as you define what the RSC editor model may look like far into the future thank you for your time this morning and enjoy the rest of your week [Applause] "
  }
]