[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:14",
    "text": "well a couple more people have uh wandered into this room hopefully fully aware that they're in the right room um and we've had a few more join in the participant list here i don't know what do you think antoine should we get started all right so welcome everyone thank you so much for uh coming to the registration protocols extensions working group very glad to have you here um uh we have our co-chairs uh both present here at this meeting i'm sitting at the table i'm jim galvin and antoine versuren you can see the uh giant head on the screen over there on the other side um so thanks everyone uh we we only have an hour today uh we do have a a couple of uh discussion topics one which might be a little bit lengthy um but we'll just uh jump through our details here so um let's see let's just move forward one in the slides this is the standard note well everyone should be very well familiar with it by now uh even if you're a newcomer you surely have been to a meeting before this one so i won't really belabor this point uh also just a reminder we now have a whole set of code of conduct guidelines um and a reminder you know treating each other with respect and speaking slowly and limit the use of slang a couple of important things to uh put up there but also like to take this opportunity"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "to remind people that uh everything is recorded here uh make sure that you're aware of that and keep that in mind when when you're speaking it to participate in the room you can use the qr code which is not on the screen anymore but i believe it's on the back of a couple of chairs you surely know all of that by now and in any case you can go to the agenda the the full agenda page and for each individual meeting there is an icon over there on the right on the line for choosing to join the meeting room you must join the meeting room at least at the local tool to speak please so that you can properly get yourself in the queue put your hand up and we'll call on people to come up to the mic uh you'll see the cue list you can you know one extra person can stand up behind whoever's speaking just to keep things moving along but we're going to try not to crowd folks as much as possible and yes the important thing about signing into the room is of course it's the blue sheet uh reference and that's where all of that comes from so uh thanks for that and last point here is masks are required unless you are speaking at the microphone and strictly speaking i guess i can wear mine it's supposed to work just fine even at these mics right um people have had some issues at the mics in the center of the room so the reminder is to please make sure to get very close to the microphone please do eat the microphone and you know speak in a normal or slightly above voice so that your sound can carry into the room properly all right thanks very much and i can see that everyone in this room has a mask on and we appreciate that all right here's our agenda for today it's a pretty pro forma agenda uh what we normally do so we'll just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "kind of zip through some things here pretty quickly we've kind of already been into the welcome and introductions and we've covered the note well just a reminder in general that we very much like uh we're trying very hard to move forward with document management and reviewers you know we we have been trying to make sure that although this is a low volume group and not a very significant set of people we're trying very hard to make sure we have at least five independent people who acknowledge that a document should move forward when we're looking for that doing during last call and we're also trying to be in a place where we get document shepherds early in the process of a document if not at the moment it's adopted preferably we've just had some issues with that going along so just trying to make sure we get all of that along the way and appreciate your help in that respect finally uh we do need a minute taker someone to take notes i know that someone has graciously already put a copy of the agenda there so anyone who would be willing to volunteer to um step up and take some notes okay so we just see rick here in the front row so thank you very much to rick wilhelm you know our notes taking is not as complex as some of the other groups you know fairly straightforward just uh collecting some bullet point summaries and and actions of course alongside the agenda that's already in there so appreciate that rick thanks much okay so let's move to a look at the documents we've published since the last time sadly none um but i expect a banner year to be coming up as we move along here we have quite a few documents that are very close to the end and uh we also have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "moving along here we have a document in particular one that is currently with the iesg we have our internationalized email addresses in epp extension there's been quite some discussion in the ietf last call i think this is probably our first document that has really gotten this much attention in the community at large so that's much appreciated by the rest of the ietf we've certainly had the folks who are much more expert in internationalization issues who paid a lot of attention to this i think it's in a pretty good place i'm not going to walk through all of the issues that have been discussed but thank you to the document authors and the document shepherd you know who've been carefully tracking all of these things and making sure that all the details are covered um and i believe the document is getting very close to being released from the iesg um that all the issues have been i think all the issues have actually been acknowledged at this point and taken care of so i expect the isg will do its final due diligence and that'll move along into the rfc editor queue so that's a good thing no material issues that had to be handed back to us to address so yay for us okay and with that we're going to move to walking through a few of our other documents and status of existing work and i'm going to turn this back over to antoine who's going to walk us through the rest of this antoine if you want to just take over the slides there you have to you have to do that for me right ah you just removed them okay i'll open them again no problem so here they are again and i think this is where we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "were going right and you can all hear me so this one you already did okay existing work no presentations well the first one of course is a simple registration reporting it's still in our queue um so i think the chair rule but jim do you want do you have anything to say about your document no thanks to uh jim gould who provided some detailed comments we've provided a revised document and uh we're just frankly kind of holding back at the moment because there are other documents that are kind of in front of it rather than pressing on getting it published but no new significant updates at the moment and we expect that we'll move that along as soon as something else moves up into the queue first thanks okay great then we have existing work with discussions and documents and we have a document registration there's a dictionary header is going to talk about that so header i will take up your slides do you want to have the control yourself or do you want me to progress the slides uh there's only there's only two two substantive slides so we might as well just keep on keep holding on all right next slide please all right um so we've been slowly updating this draft and the the main feedback we've received um there's sort of two two camps here one is there's um some folks that have an ongoing concern that the draft will drive policy which is which is not what um it's intended to do but there is a concern that it will just by"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "its existence that said there is support from for example the rir space uh folks i talked to on that side of the world said you know they saw some potential overlap um with some existing work but uh there was value here that they could see having a data dictionary of common terms would be would be helpful so what we were thinking is you know with this draft this is you know if you're going to do something if you're going to be using terms and the ietf is where you take that to say here's how you do it but we're really not trying to set the policy here so i'm looking for feedback as to is there any language that we can add that would relieve some of that concern i'm proposing to add some additional text to the introduction and abstract being very explicit that this is not intended to promote policy development it is uh intended to be broadly applicable this is not just for of course the i can't contracted parties it's supposed to be for rir or cctlds really anyone working in registration space um there are a couple areas in the document that if you could go to the next slide please that still needs some definition and that's really the next thrust of work that we'll be doing between now and the next ietf meeting if you have thoughts feedback uh commentary both on the question of how to relieve the policy concern and definitions to put for these tbd items i'd love to hear your feedback steve is there anything you would like to add there was something that was occurring to me and then it went away and i'm hoping it comes back momentarily so um let's see if we get anybody else to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "engage while i recover the thought that i was going to share okay we have a question from richard richard go ahead please uh sure thanks um pir um so i'm i'm one of the folks although i haven't put this on the list that this this document really is not helpful for um icann contracted parties whether they be registrars or registries because the terms that it define overlap strongly with terms that are defined in in registrars and registries contracts and frequently icann refers to rfcs as a way to anchor things in the technical realm and the concern that this is going to be that kind of a document is going to be hard to get away from especially when it defines things that are that are not necessarily as technical and it's a data dictionary so i don't know what really to do about that um other than to maybe limit the scope of the things that are defined um also there's overlap with other documents but i think that's that's one's already been been brought up uh thank you can i um can i offer two comments um as as uh as you noted uh icann frequently refers to rfcs as a source uh to draw from in their definitions this is intended to be exactly in that line um it's the the awkwardness that i think you're implicitly talking about is that these definitions had not existed in rfc"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "form before i can start putting these into contracts ideally the all the terms would be all the terms that i can is interested in would be aligned and uh in any case as is always the case for ietf documents that there's no force behind them they're adopted or used or referenced as people find they find them useful to do that so a very sharp division between trying to have a neutral external uh generally useful set of definitions and then how any group whether it's icann or any other group that implements things makes use of those so that's one comment that i wanted to offer up and i uh it's genuinely not intended at all to be driving icann policy it's intended to actually provide a if you look at it from an icam perspective a more solid basis for the references for the terms that they use separate point we've envisioned and expect that uh when this dictionary is put together that it's accompanied by a suitable set of experts that um then are are the um i don't want to make it sound like control but are the are the um source of of of expertise expertise and sanity with respect to new terms that get added or raising questions about whether there's conflict between you know two different terms that mean"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "the same thing and such so um you know heather and i are neither of us are volunteering to be part of that expert group but one of the things that has to be done downstream at some point wherever it's appropriate in the process is to find volunteers from the community who are willing to be part of that okay thank you steve and richard you have another comment to make uh yes please yeah go ahead um so so thanks for that steve i appreciate the the feedback thing comment um it's precisely the variability of that of the dictionary and the fact that it's going to be starting to be leaned on by contracts that makes it unsuitable because the contracted parties can't have the definition of what a registration is be open for interpretation by an expert group the the contracts need firm language upon which to be built and having the these kind of definitions that are contractually important be rested in an rfc that's open to malleability by an expert group no matter how expert they are is not the kind of contractual certainty that contracted parties can live with and so while i understand that it's that it may be interesting and useful for a population of certain groups a key constituency in this whole thing are the icann contracted parties and this makes their lives their contractual lives much more difficult than the benefit that it gives i would offer thank you yeah i i think you're putting way too much emphasis on uh the role that this dictionary would play um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "i mean to take simple examples where it says name um there's i don't know what what the contractual issues uh and certain definitions that you have in mind in the icann contracts that would have any issue about what a name means but you know i think we're going sort of imagining more force than is intended there um also the icann contracts although uh they cover half of the world uh of the domain name system they don't cover the other half and they don't cover the numbers community and so if one wants to think in terms of whether or not the fields that are defined might be common across the entire spectrum then the question is how do you get there the itf is the place ican doesn't do that or in other words steve i think you know when it looks like a car when it smells like a car when it sounds like a car it's probably a car right yes but i didn't quite understand which word you were using it looks like smells like what a car a guard or domain name an automobile or whatever yeah all right okay one more point not in just to kind of this is serious business our talk about cars and ducks notwithstanding just to bring the point home the contracted parties when we're working with rfcs we are very careful about which urls we use so as the urls that go into the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "the urls can't be variable in later spots that we nail down the actual reference urls with the text that they can't later refer to something else so the contracted parties contracts are serious business they incorporate and reference rfcs for very important things because the ietf makes important contributions to those things their firmness and their quality is important and when we've got something like this it's a data dictionary that could be moving underneath that could be incorporated in the future it sets a bad situation up for the icann contracted parties precisely because the itf rfcs have such standing so it's not to denigrate the rfcs it's direct i'm pointing out the fact that they carry a lot of weight in the icann community thank you yeah yeah but the the the point is exactly to nail these down and put them in a um a solid position we're talking about an iana managed registry that is intended to be to have exactly this solidity that you're talking about and not be mangled or changed arbitrarily over time it's the same as any other protocol definitions you need them to be quite stable can i george michaelson apnea can i talk briefly to this i i actually have a great deal of sympathy to the problem a contracted party would have in this space and i don't think your response from pir is silly in any sense at all i think this is a rational response but i wanted to observe the nature of an rfc is the post publication they are substantively immutable and were there subsequent change to a data dictionary we might call it a 9999 biz process in draft but when it's published the number it gets will not be 99.99"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "it can't be the nature of the document is that it becomes an immutable state of the data dictionary at the time it is published but your substantive point about the contractual and legal issues i think that's a genuine concern i think you're right to wear it but i don't think the mutability of the dd is material because if you embedded a url ref it would embed to the historically consistent state that was my only point thank you george very well stated and it reminds me of since i invented the rfcs 50 years ago uh as genuinely requests for comments i've observed that we passed the 1984 mark of george orwell and that the words don't mean anything like what they used to mean requests comments are no longer requested by the time an rfc is published okay thank you steve and um i want to say the record well my remark was not so more about that perhaps uh steve you might be able to explain what the um the experts are supposed to do are they going to change any of the definitions that are in the data dictionary or do you envision that they are you know reviewing new additions for new terms that need to go into the data dictionary well the the the essential role is on the latter uh as gatekeepers and you know curators and and managers of sanity for new entries and to and to make sure things remain stable not to go fiddling around that that was also my my fault and hence i thought you know when there is a definition the definition remains"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "stable otherwise it's no sense to make a definition right precisely exactly okay any other questions on this document if not then thank you heather and thank you steve and i will go to the next slide let's first a little bit share slides again thank you okay so that was extreme decision and then we come to i think the major part of our discussion here today will be about the art up extensions uh and identifier conformance um as most of you seen there has been quite some discussion on the mailing list recently about this topic uh firstly i want to follow i apologize for not entering the discussion immediately uh i had a pretty long vacation so i had to read it all back and it was quite a lot and i think many people have had the same issues um the result of the discussion um was that we have four rtf documents which are being held back by the outcome of the discussion so jim and i thought it would be useful to have a um a summary of the discussion and try to resolve it here and discuss um anything about the uh the extension identifier and art up conformance and we have a presentation for that and jim will jim has done a great job in some summary so i will give the word to jim ah you brought them up already yourself so you can control them so go ahead and try to explain the discussions that we had"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "okay thanks very much uh antoine um and yeah there has been quite some discussion um on the mailing list about this work uh and about the issue so uh what we're gonna do here is i'm gonna very briefly uh just kind of look at a summary of the discussion that happened i'm sure that most of you have already looked at the slides here so you know what the punchline is i think the most important thing to say is that we're not really going to try to review the technical merits of any one of the proposals or another so we're going to come at this from a slightly different direction look again a bit at the problem that we think we're trying to solve here and we're going to put a proposal forward so this is just a a chairs proposal for um you know how to proceed and and where to go from here and so we'd like to focus the discussion on our proposal not on the technical merits of one option or another and the path forward so with that in mind uh this slide really is i i owe thanks to uh jazip zing who actually produced a document a multi-page document where he did quite the technical analysis a summary of all of the issues i want to thank him for that i just kind of picked out a few things here just to put it in for the historical record so that we can all see what's there again i really don't want to dwell on on the various technical merits of these different things except to say that frankly there really isn't anything wrong with any one of them you know if we were starting from scratch i think that all three of these are perfectly valid paths forward and and we'd be having a slightly different discussion we'd want to dig in a little more on on the technical merits of the differences between these things so that we could"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "think more about what our future looks like from today as opposed to what was done you know when epp was created and looking forward and how it put things out there so our particular choice here and the proposal that we're going to get to is not intended to undermine any one of these options i think they're they're all uh good choices they all have their advantages um disadvantages but you know we're just gonna we're gonna move on from that at the moment okay you know and clearly the other thing to keep in mind is that we're a relatively small group really those who are very active in these discussions really are all experts and so the opinions about each of these individual options are very solid and stable opinions you know i mean these are people who who really you know do command the respect that they've earned in presenting these options and talking about them but as chairs the problem that we're faced is we don't have consensus which is kind of interesting in our group consensus usually means just finding three to five solid people who are not an author of the document or or otherwise engaged with its movement um who agree or don't you know at least explicitly don't have any objection to it and we don't even have that it's clear that we we've got you know the people who we would normally turn to to help steer the group in a single direction are all on on different sides of this so on the one hand you know what we have here is is a technical problem but we have an internet standard that has a defined solution for what we're doing we can certainly you know have some discussion about how clearly defined all of that was but what the chairs are putting forward here is given that we have an internet standard we really do have to fall back on on the process point of there's a pretty high bar for changing what already"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "exists there has to be by definition that's what it means to be an internet standard so you know with respect to these options we we you know got to thinking about okay well if that's the case then you know what do these things look like against the standard that's already there and we took a step back to ask ourselves you know what problem are we really trying to solve i want to call out a couple of specific sections which have appeared on the mailing list i believe scott has scott hollenbeck called out both of these sections as part of the discussion uh but in any case you know in the rdap rfcs the first one in the series in the extensions does in talk about the fact that the rdap identifier itself i'm sorry the extension identifier for rdap in the registry should be unique against all other identifiers and so that that becomes in our mind as we we look at how to think about these things the critical characteristic that we're looking for um in defining extensions in any extension in in our dap and another thing is in 1983 which is the response specification which talks about responses look like it also explicitly talks about what goes in the rdap conformance is a unique string that's a literal value in the rdap extension registry so all of these things you know keep us to a first principle of uniqueness whatever identifier is there you know that is the principle by which we're restarted that's where we were when we started and you know that's really where we should stay and so the question is you know have we really motivated wanting to change that particular property we're also sort of mixed on this issue of head what's your metric for evaluation of some of these changes a lot of the discussion we've noticed focuses on programming"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "as a metric for you know which which option to choose some things you know require more programming work than other things taking a step back and and maybe this is just our point of view but it's certainly i'll say for myself it represents my experience over time in the ietf you know programming is not really the first order metric that's not to say that complexity is not important but what we really care about is protocol behavior and protocol performance i mean to a large extent programming is a one-off thing right once you figure out what you want to do you put whatever effort you have to into the programming and then you move on so you know judging a particular option based on the amount of effort to get it right uh doesn't feel like the right metric you're really more concerned with how it's all going to behave and how it comes together so in the end what we think is you know have we created a problem is there a problem out there that um does something different in terms of the first principles of uniqueness and optionality we think that extensions in general have to have those two characteristics those are the things which are most important in this space and in deciding you know whether or not to change into any one of these options the question is is there a problem that exists that um is beyond what these two properties uh actually provide okay so have we found a bar that we've crossed in order to change the standard because we believe the standard has those two critical properties and these options really don't have those two properties in the same way all right so what is our particular suggestion here focusing on the fact that we want to keep the uniqueness and optionality and we also think that simplicity is preferred then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "the observation we make is these discussions about the options are about finding some way to version extensions and supporting a versioning option of some sort in the extensions and it is our belief here and our assertion that support for versioning is not an integral part of the base standard it's not part of our dap as defined and while it might be interesting to solve that problem as part of you know our working group here we honestly have not heard we don't believe any of the options have motivated the need for changing that particular characteristic focusing on uniqueness and optionality versioning is not part of those two things it's a different thing entirely and that wasn't covered in the base back it's just not present and not intended to be there now we do observe that certainly you could choose to provide optioning inside of your extension definition if you're so inclined arguably option three in that list is kind of like that option three is essentially describing a mechanism whereby an extension itself could decide in its own specification to provide a means for versioning that would be fine you know i mean that's an independent object it can do what it wants to do and you can see if it gets tractioning but it doesn't feel like something that should rise to the level of being handled by the extension registry and it doesn't rise to the level of something that should be handled by the rdap protocol itself at that level and so that's the observation that we make um and you know that really is the point so i think that you know what we're proposing is probably closest to option one um but in principle you know we just want to focus on the fact that uh none of these options really um you know they haven't made they haven't motivated a change to a full internet standard"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "and so we believe that versioning is not something that's covered and we should not open that door and open that topic in this in this uh working group at this time that uh trying to challenge the base specification doesn't we haven't got consensus to do that not at all there's been no uh technical motivation for for doing that so that is our uh response to all of that discussion um [Music] not sure how that's gonna going to sit with people give people a chance to think about that a bit more um i've added a little bit of color oh we do have someone in the queue here so let's uh take that question so jim gould go ahead can you hear me yes we can okay good thank you well first off i i wanted to say i i appreciate the passionate debate on the list it's uh i really enjoyed it um and i want to appreciate the uh the work that the chairs did in uh coming up with this proposal i know it's difficult um and i can get behind it um i do have a couple caveats that i want to point out that i i really believe that version is an important element that we should look to add in the future in some way so that may be something for us to uh look for the opportunity to do so uh the other is that uh we do need to support versioning of uh policy identifiers uh for example the pro the the rdap profile identifiers um version and those scenarios are important there are not extensions with actual elements of of an extension so i want to ensure that that version can continue to be supported in the extension register so that's it thank you very much so thank you jim appreciate the comment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "um under the the second bullet here even on this slide uh the second bullet under the second bullet where you make the observation that you know there probably is an opportunity for additional clarity regarding versioning um i put it there on the slide when antoine and i were talking and left it as kind of a question mark because whereas the change of the lunar neck level zero to just lunarnic really isn't a rada change and that's a fairly straightforward and easy thing to do it's not clear that this is a straightforward and easy thing to do so jim you just brought up the issue that versioning is something that we should approach and and you know pay more attention to and bring it as a topic forward and certainly don't object to that i agree it's it's a very it's certainly a technical topic within the context and within scope for this working group so uh you know there's an opportunity there if someone wants to press on that and have that discussion and it is related to this question you know should we have some additional clarity regarding versioning um i don't know i i was we were looking anton and i trying to decide if there was an editorial point somewhere along the way where we could add some changes that might make this a little more clear but it just started getting really kind of uncertain i felt like we were crossing a line between editorial and material and figured it was really a question to bring back to the group here i mean if there's interest i think i'd i'd like to see us do that as a working group but i don't want to we don't want to force the issue and i don't know i'm going to put you on the spot there scott if you have any thoughts about that offhand or if you don't want to say anything that's fine oh you just put your hand up so go ahead go for it sure thank you jim scott holland back here uh first i'd like to say uh i do support this proposal um i it's it's actually something a suggestion i made on the list several weeks ago uh basically be kevin i because i i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "agree with your assessment that there are some places in 1983 where the wording is a little inconsistent you've got the one example there where there's one example that talks about the string lunar nick being used as an identifier another example uses lunar nic level zero uh those examples should be consistent and i'm actually going to suggest a slight change to this proposal and that we should change lunar nick to luna nick level zero because rdap is itself is identified with the identifier rdap level zero i but it's uh just for the sake of consistency right i think they should be the same um and there's also one other place in 1983 where it talks about these identifiers as uh those that are returned in the rdap conformance data structure uh as being a hint i think that word hint is a little bit soft and potentially leads to questions of interpretation and confusion and so uh i've got a sentence in mind that i'm thinking about that i'll probably throw out to the list or you know in the creation of an erotum report for this so we will have something to discuss on list in terms of the way the erotic is processed and so for people yeah if you're wondering well how is that processed someone actually you know goes to the rfc editor webpage and fills out a little report saying hey i think i have found a technical issue with this rfc right they describe it in detail and then that report is sent among other places to the working group mailing list where the suggestion for the correction um you know and the merits of that can be discussed so you know this isn't just a slam dunk you know one person says something and then the rfc editor is noting a change someplace we will still have an opportunity for discussion um and as i said i think uh you know changing that word hint to something a little bit stronger and less open to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "interpretation is one other place where we should probably look at 1983. so thank you for that uh let me first say that um i certainly take your friendly amendment of reversing my suggested errata thing here that's fine you know i i think that um it is important to make the uh examples consistent um and your suggestion about uh the hint mechanism um well i see antoine came in the queue here there's a discussion that he and i were having as we got into all of this about rdap conformance i'm sure he's going to ask that question so why don't you go ahead and do that i actually want to do to have a different question and the question is actually directed to james because you know what we what we're trying to do here is that the or what we said about the versioning is that the extensions at the moment don't have a method for versioning um but the comment that james made what it was and they made it again now in the chat room is that you want to ensure that the version of the policy identifiers uh that they have versioning and i think there's no question about that right so you thought jim that we wanted to have a discussion about versioning of extensions but um i think the the versioning of policy identifiers is with without any uh discussion right and i see scott first in the queue so scott go ahead uh thanks antoine scott holland beck um in the ca yes i should also note i do support the idea of having a discussion around versioning version negotiation right and i will note that there actually is text right now in 1983 if you look at the description of the help response it does say that among the other information that can be returned is information describing extensions now unfortunately that's as far as it goes which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "means there's an awful lot of room there to interpret well what exactly does extension identification look like but i think that that does mean we have i don't know if i'd want to call it a foundation but at least we have a rough idea of where we might look uh for a possible method and a mechanism to add these kinds of capabilities to our dap so before you before you sit down and step away um the question that i thought antoine was going to ask is he and i got into this discussion about why does rdap conformance even exist because it doesn't seem to have there's no there's no material processing requirement on the part of a response or a client and so it the only real purpose that it had as far as we could tell was about the help because in in principle the suggestion is that all of the extension identifiers in use or supported would be listed there so that's its only real existence but it's interesting that all the examples say that rdap conformance must exist right but there's nothing that says what you're supposed to do with whatever's in there and then as you just said you've got the hint question right so it all just came to that larger question do you want to comment at all on that or yeah sure because 9083 does also say that you know in the context of returned values uh of an extension that a that for example a client might not recognize uh this is why extensions register and use these identifiers they are intended to tell a client that hey here is for example a data structure that does not exist in the core spec and you can match the prefix on this data structure to the identifiers that returned in the rdap conformance section to tell you where the specification for how to process that extension exists yep so yeah it's i don't yeah i'm maybe i'm not expressing myself well that's not getting to the question i'm asking as as i understand it even when the when the server provides the response it doesn't have to tell you what extensions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "that he used because that's an option and so and in fact a client can simply ignore objects it doesn't recognize right an extension that doesn't recognize so the presence of rdap conformance you know except for the help thing where i'm trying to find out what a server does it doesn't seem to serve any purpose any material purpose and as documented yeah i mean i think the intention of that rdac conformance data structure is that the server should return information describing all of the specifications that are represented in that response to include you know rdap level 0 core rdap and any other extension that is represented in the response and i the intention is not that that is an optional thing right but now we're back to being a hint on the client side and all that but all that's fine okay um oh it exists so a client can know which career parameters to use when sending the requests well sure that makes sense to me uh andy in in the sense that a client would do a help request to find out what's available and then it could go do things then it would know what to do so i do understand the idea that the in the help response the the r adapter performance would list all the extensions it's just interesting that it's also there in all responses um and it's suggested that it can be there but it does not seem to have any material value in a response certainly speaking it's just a hint so to speak um that's just an observation i guess it's not really a complaint um okay jim gold you've been waiting quite patiently ahead can you hear me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "yep great thank you very much all right it's unusual for me to be patient so um yeah i just want to ensure that we uh don't disallow a version of the policy identifiers that's all um so as i understand it that version is not a feature of art app and that the registrations of extension and the structure of those extensions will not include version or don't have to uh but as long as we also are don't disallow the inclusion of a versioned policy identifier i think i'm fine thank you yeah i think that made sense to me and i'm okay with that but rick is jumping up to the queue sure i was although scott was first but now that you're there go ahead thanks rick scott holland back uh yeah jim i agree with you completely right i mean we already have registered identifiers in the iana registry uh for example the rdap profile that was developed by icann and there is nothing that that modifies in the context of changing data structures and response right it's all about what a server does in terms of constructing the response within the confines of standard 95 already right so it tells the client hey this is kind of what you can expect you know in terms of your response and how it's constructed um but as i said you know nothing was extended it's really a more more of a processing oriented thing and yes i want to make sure that we continue to allow that for very important reasons that this this is definitely needed from a policy perspective okay thanks scott okay so um i think the proposal here to um just you know stick with these things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "are unique identifiers and they match one to one between the rdap conformance element object and the rdap extension [Music] identifiers they're just opaque strings as far as the protocol is concerned then there's a one-to-one mapping there and it's always a unique specification that the extension identifier maps to and all of those extension identifiers need to be unique and so we're just going to kind of stick with that and that's we're going to go i accept so the proposal here about the errata that's you know that's fine wherever wherever you take that scott and that goes to the list and that'll get properly reviewed and so that's fine and george go ahead please so just george michaelson ap nick just so i understand the formalism we don't make decisions in rooms right so what you're saying is this is the chairs making a proposal it's going to the list you're seeking consensus on a chair proposal thank you george for uh reminding me that i should be a little more careful about that very good yes uh we certainly want to make sure in in the minutes that all this is captured and we should close out the discussion there are multiple threads on the mailing list um should try and pull all of them together with it with a closing message uh which points to this discussion and these slides and what we're gonna do so uh that's where we'll end up okay any other comments or questions about this not seeing anything else in the uh room here let me just take a quick look through the uh chat here at the end thank you andy that hint was bad language yes i think they're just a couple of interesting things it's amazing what turns up as one goes through this process over the years and thank you for uh supporting the proposal um okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "so we are all good i think with that um antoine i'll just turn this back to you here yes i'm trying to preload the slides but i think you uh you first need to drop yours yeah right share because i think that was the last piece of our agenda or at least we have eight minutes left for any other business does anybody have any other business i'll just comment in general i mean as antoine had said in the beginning there there are several documents which people were holding back because they wanted to make sure that we resolved this question of these things and uh so we're hopeful that all of those are going to move along here uh quite smartly um there's a couple of them that we really do want and need going forward and george you know you should be raising your hand in the queue really yeah yeah screw the queue so i don't often do this but i would like to thank the chairs for their intervention into what has been a difficult conversation almost acrimonious and i think you added a lot of value i think you helped so thank you well thank you george um i know that i certainly appreciate that i see uh antoine nodding too it was tough for us we he and i had a several hours of conversation trying to figure out where to take this and what to do with it so uh thank you for that it certainly was a difficult topic and difficult thing to do so um but yeah so just a an outreach to the authors of those other four documents you know please do take this opportunity to make sure that you are aligned with all of this um i i think a couple of them have a little bit of wording changes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "editorial work to do and then let's move them along i think i'm most interested in the rdap in the uh redacted document would like to see that one move along very quickly that's just a personal observation but there are quite a number of them people should push them out as quick as they can jim gould go ahead please yeah i wanted to speak about the redacted uh draft uh where we do have a dependent we do have a dependency on the json path uh graph that's not an rfc yeah i believe they have a milestone going out to november um so i believe we're gonna have to wait for that just want to bring that up okay thank you and i'm sorry i was sort of ticking over the cue from uh antoine but yeah go ahead squads uh thank you guys uh scott holland back again uh so yeah just bringing the proposal conversation to closure antoine if i heard i think i heard you correctly one of you will send a note to the list yes just echoing what george had said say hey look this is what we discussed in the room this is the proposal and the idea would be that working group members would you know comment on the proposal at this point right so right the idea would be that will give you an opportunity to measure the consensus of of our approach to the proposal okay so jumping ahead just a little bit if we do agree that we have consensus on adopting that proposal i will volunteer to craft the errata report for 1983 all right but i will wait until we i get to go ahead from you that yes we have consensus on this approach yeah and thank you for that scott but i think what i just understood from you it's not 1983 that needs an update"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "but it's actually uh 74.80 right because you wanted to change dunanic into lunar league's level zero uh no no no that actual example with the lunar next stuff it's it's an example in that's why okay yeah and that hint wording is also in 1983. now that doesn't mean there isn't something someplace else it's i i just haven't seen anything anyplace else that i think rises to the level of adding to this confusion that we've had okay because we were when we were discussing this we saw that you know the extension identifier for lunonic is in rlc's 7480 section 8.1 and um so that's where we thought all the confusion came from you know there's one rfc that talks about lunamic as an extension and there's another irc that says lunatic level zero as an extension but okay thank you no you're right uh we will uh um draft a um a conclusion for this discussion we will send it to the mailing list and thank you very much for volunteering to um to do the errata that are needed after we reach consensus and since we have three minutes left i ask again do we have any other business if not then we are perfectly on time and it's time for me to go to sleep i want to thank everybody else as well for especially for the people there who still have a whole day ahead of them and with that this meeting is adjourned thank you all thanks all and thank you to richard for taking the minutes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:08",
    "text": "later michael brothers good stuff yep thank you all right yeah i know this this one i mean i guess i can turn it off but"
  }
]
