[
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:39",
    "text": "[Music] so those who are standing up can you find your seats someone to the back of the room can you close the doors and yes we are starting sewing so we are starting please find your seats we have a very low number of participant this time I think it\u0027s a one of the reasons are that I think people are going to launch this is normal launch time isn\u0027t it the what worries me a bit more is that I don\u0027t see some of the presenters so I\u0027m inclined to wait a couple of minutes can someone stick a head out of the door and I\u0027ll see if Adrienne is there we need him so one Stewart is doing that this is the mpls working group meeting in Prague I think for the fourth time and I actually think we\u0027ve been in this room once before so you had the note well if you\u0027ve been to the here the entire week you have seen it a couple of times basically remember that anything you say in the meeting or send a mail to the mailing list I think this is this those are contributions to the to the IETF and will be considered as such if you haven\u0027t read the BCP 79 go and do that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:05:42",
    "text": "we can\u0027t hear you sorry I need to eat the microphone yeah okay so we\u0027re ready to start all the admins that all the administrative information are the same as before please join us meet echo and help people filling in the minutes that we get the right name names to the right comment and the right comment and that\u0027s understood by the one that made it ah you have to add free to the meet echo link for now yeah you have to add free 101 plus three is 104 yeah okay thank you and you find the the working group data tracker page is useful gyoon look at it now none mmm okay next so this preparing this again that has been a little bit of a roller coaster we had six documents that people asked to present very early and those six were actually removed so now we have a little bit of elbow room in the agenda we can take time and discuss and that should that\u0027s what it should be okay wait to go back so this is the proposed agenda the TBD actually stands for for Adrienne so he has to decide whether whether he want to come up here or he actually promised to do it why why - my wife\u0027s name is in capital letters the usual way good in a good or bad way are we actually be able to make the traditions you can you can live with it I don\u0027t know Oscar Eck yes anyone that want to bash the agenda no okay so we\u0027re going oh that\u0027s what I did the blue sheet should be started pass them on fill them in and when they get to the back of room bring them forward and try to capture if anyone actually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:42",
    "text": "come in a field spot and return the blue sheets to the working group chairs okay we have a number of ear artists going on some of them are resolved some of them are a bit too beus one of them is actually a technical change so you have the information here you can read it I don\u0027t don\u0027t want to go through the details I think the Debra actually handled one of them so it shouldn\u0027t be out should be it should be a I think it\u0027s really it was enacted the one that Debra handle and but there are four more in Deborah and in working group chairs need to discuss a bit what you want to do about them next slide yes dilly rotten okay we have a number of license my eyes are too bad so one liaison is from study group 15 on the OTN work they\u0027re doing there and they asked us for input on what we are doing that liaison was actually sent today so it or actually may be sent yesterday Andy did you actually get the pass working group on that one or ten emails to answer questions Scott told me you would be included but I have not yet seen the final first you can do look at the I don\u0027t think you were there that\u0027s why I was asking so we probably should send them Ilyas and telling that passes also that I mean we go to the liaisons page right now and take a look at it yeah okay mmm the others are being prepared the last one we don\u0027t need to respond to just for information okay next one document status up till five meetings ago we had at least one our seed per meeting cycles for the last four we haven\u0027t had any the good thing is now that we actually had we had documents in the or associated askew and they should actually be progressed quite soon I wonder is Bruno in the room okay the question I have for Bruna is about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:11:42",
    "text": "the mistress and the status of that document the mistress a mistress to a spring document the mpls document in the spring working group and it has been misread for 345 days or something like that but I hope it\u0027s knowing we have documents with the iesg and they just to answer your previous question the PALS drought the Pels RFC is included but the pails working good chairs were not included in the signature but as long as they are seasoned there that\u0027s important thing you got off the halfway there yes exactly I said what Danny is talking about delays on the Senate started up 15 did go from there working group chairs for five working groups it\u0027s the PC ampulla C camp T\u0027s and else though the pass is not less than an alien it\u0027s Adrian with jumping around on that we can live with that so the the mr. F the this is that the one you\u0027re interested in is that the base sr mpls document yeah so that\u0027s completed its second working Greg last call it had a working group last call and it went through the process and got major revisions and went back it\u0027s completed that last call it\u0027s just at the moment waiting for the Shepherd right up to move forward but it\u0027s because it\u0027s already had quite a lot of review it should be smooth from here on in word so who was is the document Shepherd Chandra I don\u0027t know okay I could find out well I have to walk they\u0027re not really that important but we need to push a bit to get it done that\u0027s actually I think it\u0027s six other documents waiting for the same document also as I said the document with the eyes G is given through the normal review processing I have an update on one of the dress in that list okay draft IAT fm+ sse encapsulation is now with the RSC editor it\u0027s in the edit state that\u0027s true when we did this two days ago it wasn\u0027t it wasn\u0027t like that and then we have a new working group document it\u0027s also on the agenda but it\u0027s the RC and 8270 8287 lengths clarification and we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:42",
    "text": "have an ambition among the working group shares and the authors to actually progress this pretty fast so you expect a working group last call quite soon yep and here are the list of documents had actually been updated in last time and then we also have existing working group documents the the or ahmad the erm our extensions draft is actually just waiting for the base RM our draft to be progressed I talked to Miguel about that one and he promised that they were going to attend the the updated parties as soon as possible and I think I\u0027m quite happy with that so I will try to progress the aromatics tensions just respond respond telef√≥nica so if they call four of these draft and that is our commitment to move forward as well as possible okay mmm yep you can jump on most nine we also had a number of new individual documents as you see only five here but the the some of them are in blue and I think for those five documents they are they were intended to know four of them were intended to be on the working group list and actually helped in we\u0027ve drawn the one that\u0027s still there is the SPL terminal Illium will present seven the first the RMR drafts here are also ready to be progresses there will be adoption polls and yeah again within a few weeks and those of the rafts were and don\u0027t the last three of those those those document hasn\u0027t happened that much the draft Shang mpls are more multi cause that is basically a framework we talked about it a little bit in peace yesterday and we are ready to start probably progressing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:17:42",
    "text": "it you will see an IPR call going out today or tomorrow draft Shang ambulance Ellis beeping yang configuration draft Gregg with capital letters will actually talk about it quite a bit and since we have time we can you can take your time there and try to explain what happens progress reports those are the young base young\u0027uns that you can model we have had further comments as the author says that everything has been addressed enough I believe them so the next step is sexually to start a Jang doctor review and the working group task all next we are asking for status reports on the working group document and we are missing some of them but it only free this time so it\u0027s kind of acceptable and I\u0027m not really sure that I was expecting a status report on B if t directed because that is with B shares and authors to actually try to find out what to do about it so basically nothing to report ah here is my favorite list so I list I listed all the drafts that I have in my my mail folders that does not are not progressing and my feeling is I removed the ones that people told me they won\u0027t they are progressing somewhere else so that we have actually progress them or we\u0027re not killing to do anything about it I\u0027ll remove those they\u0027re still free pages of the drafts that you classify as a sleeping beauty you know nothing really happens I don\u0027t see anything happening about this trap yeah so there are errors in this list tell me about the errors there are duplicates in the list so I will remove that but I want help from people that has a draft that actually hasn\u0027t been progress for a long time to actually say no I don\u0027t want the progress anymore or if you want to progress is tell me that you will do God\u0027s now we kind of start looking at it so it\u0027s Adrienne I think a huge number of these are our missing replaced by links in the data tracker if you were to put these on a wiki page "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:43",
    "text": "then people can individually go in and edit so if you put the column and the what the right resolution should be people can go and edit the resolutions and that will be much easier for us to process and trying to work with email on such a long list at them okay I think we have an ambulance working group wiki page so I probably will use that one thank you yeah I want to call the same thing so one of the draft you know the draft kinney just about spring MPLS LS beeping that got merged but Kumar draft Kumar kini and now it does you know published as RFC 8287 okay thank you so Andy [Music] while we\u0027re waiting for the presentation come up amandime Alice this is a short presentation on improving security for for LBP so so if we go to the next slide oh great thank you there it is so here\u0027s some history LDP was first published back in 2001 as a proposed standard it was replaced by RC 503 six which i think is still a draft standard in october 2007 both specified the use of TCP md5 signature option offered for LBP authenticity and integrity checking for LDP messages to prevent against LDP message spoofing as far back as 1998 the ITF was already aware of problems with md5 and for example you can see RFC 2385 for example as an early RFC which talks about the problems with md5 and RSC 59 25 back in 2010 deprecated the use of the TCP md5 signature option which is what LDP still is specified to use and replaced it with the TCP authentication option TCP a Oh and basically that our seed describes the option itself it does not talk about the actual cryptographic algorithms that you would use with the option that\u0027s discussed it with in our C 59 26 to allow the the cryptographic algorithms to be updated separately from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:23:43",
    "text": "the option itself so in May 2013 RFC 69 52 recommended that all TCP based routing protocols move from md5 to TCP AO that would include l DP l DP runs over tcp RC 74/54 and fifteen did that for BGP so BGP has successfully moved over to TCP a Oh at least in the specification but it didn\u0027t actually choose a particular cryptographic algorithm not to use with BGP and as we know LDP continues to specify the use of md5 so what we want to be able to do is basically ask some questions of the working group come on there we go so the the the goal of this draft and it was written by the book by the co-chairs of pals and MPLS working groups is to update LDP to replace md5 with TCP ao but the authors are really LDP experts and we are not security experts and so we have some questions to ask first we asking here the MPLS working group and then I will be presenting this in the in the routing area working group as well to have a larger discussion with the routing area working group as well first of all how successful has TCP AO been for for BGP you know because if it\u0027s not been successful for BGP why bother doing this for LD P as well is it actually in use in the field and if anyone can answer that question please come on up to the mic and then the question is well if we specify TCP AO then we have to choose a particular cryptographic algorithm to use with TCP ao and we would want that one one that works reasonably well in routers without basically you know slowing down the processing of LDP messages and so on so we want something which is reasonably good in terms of the cryptographic properties but but something that doesn\u0027t degrade your performance either and then the third question that we have and then I\u0027ll start the line is does anyone really care about this I mean is anyone even using M five currently with LDP so with that I\u0027d like to start with Joel Joel Halpern with Erics and I\u0027m certainly not anywhere near the BGP expert many people around here are from the discussions I\u0027ve seen nobody\u0027s using TCP √§√¥ on BGP conversely attempting to put a draft through the iesg which removed LDP md5 and did not specify a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:45",
    "text": "replacement would likely run into serious difficulty so if we want to stop saying md5 because frankly md5 isn\u0027t a good idea which it isn\u0027t we probably need to say a up TCP a Oh even if we doubt anybody\u0027s implementing either one right but but of course our alternative is to just do nothing right and let things sit as they are yeah and that may be our best child relative that\u0027s why were asking the question in the first place Rajeev oh sorry Cisco I\u0027m aware of at least 10 networks in the wild while in production that actually used LDP with md5 at least 10 that I could just name right away I\u0027m there perhaps more so it is certainly a lot more commonly deployed and then we would care for now the question then I think you\u0027re really asking would they care terrifically 75 with TCP a oh it\u0027s just about to ask you that question I was reading your mind I don\u0027t know have I mean and and if I were to ask them first question that I would need to have the answer forest is it broken I haven\u0027t seen any problem and network with that yet so unless we come up with a meaningful assertion that yep here the challenges that you\u0027re gonna run into if you haven\u0027t already well oh by the way I should mention almost all of them probably have bgp with md5 enabled as well thank you okay thank you very much that was very helpful Adrienne Farrell I think there\u0027s that need to separate two things the use of md5 as a a fat finger check and the use of md5 as security and there\u0027s a a problem with security when you say we have never had a security breach so we don\u0027t need secure security okay I\u0027ve never nobody\u0027s ever robbed my house so I don\u0027t need to lock the door if we\u0027re going to have something we call security it needs to be secure md5 is not if we want something that checks configuration fat fingers and things then we should and then md5 is good enough but we should mark it as such and say it is not secure so wait on an alien are you saying that security for LDP it\u0027s not really based on md5 and it\u0027s not misunderstand me "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:29:49",
    "text": "correct correctly I am trying to source a md5 it there was in some networks or probably a lot of networks around but it\u0027s not there because there is a strong security need there is useful for checks and other things so I can\u0027t answer whether people are using it and believe that they are getting security I can answer that if they are using it because they believe they\u0027re getting security then they are mistaken and I agree what they drink 100% so one of the things that might be useful to do specifying the drop is hey if you\u0027re using md5 to get the security construct with LD 5 please consider moving away from it and here\u0027s the alternative protocol that would be very useful thing to do and I\u0027ll send some text along that line that would be great thank you Deborah\u0027s Deaconess ad I\u0027m very happy Adrienne made the statement he did because if there had been any security abs in the room when we said hey nothing\u0027s ever happened why we have to fix it they they would have been lined up at this mic in a flash so what they want to see really is that we acknowledge that there are risk and that we definitely have a plan a target to advise people using RFC\u0027s what they can do and as the same clarify md5 is not good for security TCPA o is a good target and they will be more than happy to help us to fine-tune if she use a crypto algorithm or what we should be saying there this is very important that we\u0027re doing this I agree it\u0027s important the the thing I\u0027m wondering about is really what are the threats and are those threats remedied by md5 probably not or the remedy by TCGA oh maybe but as long as we don\u0027t really have it good threaten all analysis it\u0027s hard to actually say to get do give the correct recommendation well we have the one RFC from the we had MPLS security considerations or something LAN had done it and another\u0027s and I mean it\u0027s also the security ATS are asking or they out may be out in left field that they don\u0027t understand our threats and nor use models have those used models changed so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:51",
    "text": "they they were actually asking for for that type of information and to put in the security considerations that they don\u0027t have to every time go through with a fine-tooth comb trying to figure out well how are we deploying this solo you\u0027re you\u0027re correct and maybe we should update that document maybe in this document we should put a better analysis or what the threats could be you know something like that just to point out it was RC 69 52 that did that analysis just one two-second re this draft is recalling use of the md5 like it don\u0027t use it or just yes well the the goal is basically to do exactly what RFC 74/54 did with PGP you know RC 74/54 for bgp said stop using md5 use TCP AO instead right so the so the goal is to do basically the exact same thing for LD P so that means that whoever used the md5 is out of spectrum well no not yet yeah well when we when we pass it yes yeah yeah yeah when we publish it if they want to to be conform it to the new version of LD P that uses TCP AO then yes they would need to update the implementation well you know the vendor would need to update the code and then they would need to deploy that okay yeah so as a piece of anecdotal information was that when we actually put md5 into the LDP when we did the document the first time we already know that there were doubts about md5 and we made a note somewhere if you have to look into this it only that we never had any indication that it was necessary so that\u0027s why we are where we are where we are okay so I think okay thanks thank you Andy so next up is Aiden so sorry about that if you\u0027re listening remotely that was me fiddling with the microphone my name is TBD "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:53",
    "text": "and I think on the original draft agenda lower put down 15 minutes for this draft and I made the argument that we needed 30 seconds so we\u0027ll compromise it\u0027s a really small problem and a really small draft to solve it the the problem basically comes from when we wrote 70 to 74 which was clarifying the use of special-purpose labels how you allocate them how you retire them we thought we had the terminology clear and consistent with the IANA registry since then as people have started to write drafts that use especially the extended special-purpose labels which are only just coming into use we\u0027ve found that people a bit confused as to exactly what terminology they should use so we\u0027ve written this tiny little draft which tweaks the terminology and the idea is then that we\u0027ll have something consistent we can use going forward and will be stable at least for six months until we discover that this isn\u0027t clear either so and there are two registries in the Ayana maintains for this and they are located on the same I on a web page there are two ways into that way Paige so when you go to the the full list of registries you see two entries separately but whichever one you click on it takes you to this page and both registries are there they are currently called special-purpose MPLS label values and extended special-purpose MPLS label values which all looks perfectly cool but both of those registries contain label values that are special purpose so now everyone is confused when they say special purpose MPLS label which which registry are they really pointing that so we propose to make this clear by further qualifying the the base registry so now both registries have a have a separate name base an extension extended so if you talk about special purpose your being generic if you mean one registry you said base if you mean the other registry you say extended and that gives us then some shorthand terminologies SPL as I say any special purpose label ABI SPL for the base and one of those of course is the extension label and then espl for all the extended special purpose labels and remember that that\u0027s quite a big range of which naught to 15 you\u0027re not allowed to use and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:56",
    "text": "others are chopped out for allocation experimentation and something in the future maybe and then we\u0027ve added a new term to cover the the pairing of the extension label and an extended special purpose label so that\u0027s a composite special special purpose label I have said this so often now my tongue is getting special purpose label jr. on this slider in general yes but I can wait in America I was wondering does it mean that you can have extended base SPL from the second minute when you use the extension label I\u0027m just wondering on how confusing the next stage of the terminology you may end up into so you cannot a thin extended base would mean to you to have an extended base you would have to have an a base label with a value larger than 15 you cannot do that okay because the the MPLS architecture the reason we have extended labels extended special purpose labels is because you can\u0027t do that okay so it\u0027s just anything as a base label anything that is larger than 15 is a real switching forwarding label and any attempt to make a special reservation on that would blow up in all the deployed base so we had to steal one label for the excel and make the extended okay thank you but I\u0027m all in favor of confusing the terminology if we can find a legitimate way to do it I can help you so what does that look like in use this is the normal label stack with a with a what used to be just a regular SPL but now we\u0027ve got a a base SPL showing up in the stack it goes yellow that\u0027s very nice and and this is what it looks if you have an extension label remember the extension label is a base SPL and then we follow that with an extended SPL and the two of them together are called composite SPL this is the it\u0027s been on the on the mailing list but Wow meet EKKO is like a week behind okay right it\u0027s been on the mailing list only for a week or something it\u0027s really really short we would like to hear people tell us we\u0027ve got something wrong or we don\u0027t need to do it at all otherwise it looks like it\u0027s so short that I would expect I guess low I can\u0027t do it but I would expect the chairs - just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "like adopt and move through using their process and and get it done quickly questions okay how many has actually read the draft fair number how many things we should actually go ahead and do this that is interesting because that\u0027s more than actually read the draft so you\u0027re not must you must have made a good presentation thank you oh thank you radium hello everyone my name is Chen Xiang from City my presentation today is the SRM pstp inter-domain use cases first of all let me explain the SRM pstp as we are as we all know that in SRM pious networks there sr pass must be unidirectional but in some transport networks for example and pstp networks the SR bi-directional path must be established it and the draft ITF spreem M has passed segmented draft has defined a path segments to support s are bi-directional path correlation so based on that the this document discussed in the domain scenarios in SRM pstp networks there in this document the SR bidirectional end-to-end Puffy\u0027s must be established across multiple domains and the path segment is used to indicate the into the may pass or end-to-end paths so firstly there are two models over there s are M POS into the main the first one is the stitching in a domain domains are isolated and thus teaching at the end others teaching node or link will push their list of the s ID to a further Lu sub Turner and in nesting into domain model global segments listed after their interests law as our load and the juror is an end-to-end process ID uniquely across all domains and then in this document we also discussed there as RMP STP int working with MPs TP this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:02",
    "text": "achieved two shifts the to realize the end-to-end we pian surface by interlocking between the SR and MPs TP lat works with their path segments so first net net look at their SR mph it is teaching into domain there are intimates as a figure show in there are just teaching models their end to end parts can be divided into several segments and we defined or intimated path segments or into may pass as ID to indicate each segment for example there we we are established their end to end path from A to C and it will be divided into a to X X to Y and the Y to Z under there are we we have there I pass a 2x f has X to Y and I pass while Y to Z and this is the forward pass and the read reverse pass a star is the same for example I pass c2 y Y to X in the X to a so when we translate trans trans forwards the packet in the editor in ingress load for example in load a we will poster the first segment we gunpowder age who X srte it is a 2x as ID list exactly and there I pass a 2x and and the payload following that then as as we know as our translate load Bo Porter top of the labels under when the trend when the packets being forwarded to the load X there I pass a to X will be the first with the Pedro top label of their MPs text then X we all switched their I pass a 2x to the Lexus segment information like this I I pass a 2x will switch to the X to Y as our te and I pars X to Y then and in at the reload why it is the same with X and ER when the pack is free being forwarded to the load of Z it will be owning existed there I pass Y to Z and then I pass Y to Z will correlate their bidirectional tars for example I pass Y to Z enter the load they will switch to the 3/2 Y srte and 32y I pass "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:06",
    "text": "advance ID so they sisters teaching into domain and lasting in the domain is there is an end-to-end pass segment we called h e+ h UT to indicate the end-to-end part and this is the forwarding parts and there is first part is the 3 2 I pass and this is and after the ingress load a we were pushed a to X srte and the sub pass a to X and the pounding si T X X to Y and there upon e si tu Y to Z and the Valerii we will push the epass a 2d then when the packet forwarded to the X the neighbor will be debunking si T X to Y and reporting si D we use it to reduce the depth over there vampires label stack so in this in here here is we use the list to switch to pumping si T to the executor in domains srte enter is in photo may pass segment for example at Lord X the bounteous ITX - what a - X will be switched to the x - y srte under duress subparts x - y and there at the load y it is the same stress procedure and when the package being forwarded to other low Z there are will be holding their epass hoc existed then 30 will switch their a 2t e parts to that z28 the reverse parts per segment so they\u0027re in the to end mmm EEP ours will create late correlate their to the unidirectional parts so melody we discussed the SRM PST P and NP STP interworking as the figures show we have as our domain and mps TP domain and there they are they are the SR term and MPs Turner they are all their bidirectional trailer and we will we will eat to achieve der and to ender VPN service crossed SR and MP STP domains then we will use the path segments from eight one load one to load a and teaching and under associated the MPS "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:07",
    "text": "label at the load a and this is the forward forwarding paths and there in the reverse pass at load a we will make mapping their MPs labeled z28 you the path segments from A to Z then we are achieved arenda to enter a VPN service so we in this document we discussed the several years into the main use cases so last step we were searched or solutions for as our MPs TP into mein and their comments and discussions are very welcome thank you any questions so I have one I\u0027m looking sorry I\u0027m looking at this spring shorter and the spring shorter says that SR typically works within one single trust domain and then it goes on and make some statement about some cases might be different so this type of work is actually across what I understand are it trust amounts so Debra okay and we have it comment here but Debra do you have an idea what we need if we were to do this work what would we have to do regarding the shorter from for spring or is there anything else we need to do well question is for Debra she never has a mic I I would say without looking at the document of course to be very careful on the the word there domain in if how about what that implies and and I do know that segment browning has been very careful in their definition of domain because we went back and forth on that quite a bit in is G so I would say you know just work with the chairs and of segment routing and and and just save it as this is still just an early very early document I think just cross your T\u0027s and make sure you\u0027ve defined domain as they do and and and that everybody can understand what it is that you if you really mean intradomain as regards psyche same m rounding right so just work you know the charity lower if you know you filled those interests here to do this work with the other chairs to see um if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:07",
    "text": "there\u0027s a clash or something what whatever and we can also we can always see see their lists right to say that we have this dog oh yeah we will discuss it I just kind of wanted a immediate reaction I point out that there is something that needs to be addressed here I think that this document would probably need some discussion on the relationship between trust domains and the domains that you have in this document it\u0027s not it\u0027s it\u0027s for me it\u0027s kind of reasonable to say that those the SR domain and the SRM fellows TP domain or within the same trust domain but you need to define that clearly to get around later surprises omega2 for example I see your Directorate reviews an emotional dream per um when you say domain right maybe that\u0027s a clear identification of intentions here I didn\u0027t read the draft sorry you mean the administration domain or like IGP floating domain I would have to say technology domain because technology domain yeah because it relates SR I need to assign the seats right so my my first get was okay this is one big administration domain so it\u0027s one operational organization they just slice and dice internally for whatever reason Joel Halpern again from Erickson let me suggest looking at it slightly differently getting at the point you were making lower the point as I understood the presentation to inter work between SR mpls and conventional MPLS when you\u0027re doing past sensitive information well that\u0027s a perfectly valid thing to run into in a perfectly ordinary deployment scenario I\u0027m doing that over here I\u0027m doing the other over here they\u0027re all part of the same domain if you simply get rid of the notion that you\u0027re talking about inter domain we now have a much simpler question that clearly does fall within our remit to address thank you well I think that is a reasonable look at it I my my my take is at the top of is Trust or administrative domain that\u0027s the the big thing and that could be slice and dice in different ways internally but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:07",
    "text": "then we are not really in the domain we are going across different different technologies domain is so vague so anyone just want to write the terminology graft over me okay I was say differently again I understand Deborah\u0027s suggestion is to clarify how the main is used in the context of this proposal so we don\u0027t have to boil the ocean and provide explanation of all possible interpretations but just discuss and what we will agree on how we interpret the main in the context of this work yes only this work yes and I take clue that been suggested look carefully how the main is used throughout spring documents and try to come up with what is most suitable for this world so basically try to reuse as much as possible interpretation that already being used in a spring orton group specifically in SRM vos sorry is one of course that\u0027s what we\u0027re gonna do perfect this is Adrian yeah so I think what spring did was they used a term called SR domain to mean an SR to him and that enabled them to say that an SR domain has trust requirements and also that SR does not leave that domain that\u0027s actually the definition of an SR domain that when an SR packet gets to the edge of the domain it ceases to be SR and if there\u0027s another SR domain you have to restart you can\u0027t get this hour across so looking at this document very briefly just over a hundred uses of the word domain and the document it starts off talking about SR domain but then I think it moves on to talking about different types of domain where yes our domain is big and within it there are different domains so that\u0027s kind of yes you\u0027re correct there there is this unintended change of terminology and that might be explained but at the same time okay so just to say well we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:10",
    "text": "have to be more disciplined with the terminology and that\u0027s what we\u0027re gonna do we\u0027ll review the document who appreciate your comments please do it on the mailing list and help us to make it better document but yes we will need to clarify their mapping between I start the main and this use case okay any further questions can I see how many actually read the document oh I see well that must be 200 mm why not two or three hands yeah now the - okay okay thank you you have some ideas that what should be done and go ahead and do that and send them host a new doc new version of document on the on the mailing list okay thank you okay so now it\u0027s Greg did you steal the okay so as war already announced this is just a an update you might remember recall that we have a working group adoption poor I should do some of the background first we started the working applause what a noob adoption policy is document we found that there are things to discuss so we don\u0027t normally want to take that type of discussion especially if we aim to do an update during your working group adoption Paul so I close the working group adoption Paul I told Greg to go and talk to the people making comments and actually try to post a new version or the document and then we restart the working group adoption Paul later yes so as part of their intelligent group process before adoption Paul MPs review team experts were asked and volunteered to review will receive reviews from ACN Rakesh many thanks to them and as we discussed their comments some of the comments got addressed in the document that been published in the course of this disk as a result of discussion but some comments we agreed with ASEAN Rakesh that would be certainly addressed in the following work and that can happen after working group adoption as we received as the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:13",
    "text": "working group adoption pool was officially opened we received comments from Tom and it was absolutely appropriate comments and I accept all of them but we couldn\u0027t communicate fast enough to separate the comments that he believes that needs to be addressed before document adopted by the working group and then can be worked later on so that\u0027s exactly what we are doing now I shared this slides with Tom and so here they\u0027re issues that still outstanding and this are a combination of issues that been pointed out both by Tom and AC and Rakesh specifically what tom is pointing to is that lack of references in the model makes it very hard to map it in part this is because this draft this model has a very long history so it started as 43 79 model and then 80 29 updated I was P and LS l SP think RFC came out so now we believe that it should be pointing to 80 29 and there are a lot of things that we need to catch up and we will certainly do that and we hope that the working group will participate and contribute once it takes ownership of this document so waiting for Tom to respond on his opinion what he thinks as a mandatory changes before another working group adoption and what with our agreement and commitment to follow through all the comments that we received so far what he agrees that would be acceptable to address after working group adoption and so that\u0027s priorities for work that possibly after working group adoption but it might change based on Tom input and the last one it expands go beyond eighty twenty nine it was pointed as optional by ACN "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:14",
    "text": "Rakesh because yes there have been several extensions to MPLS LSP to other cases like point-to-multipoint LSP evpn spring so we\u0027ll definitely need working group input and suggestions where you think that everything better be put into one model or this new extension still and they\u0027ll sls we think can be worked as augmentation but any questions I have one and I asked you before the when you have RSVP or actually rsvp-te in the same sentence as effect that is that\u0027s problematic because there\u0027s no way of doing effect validation or fact signaling in in RSVP well again if again if I remember correctly that\u0027s the terminology used in 43 79 and then consequently in 80 29 so but I\u0027ll take another look at the terminology is used because again the TLD is called target effectively so it might be that it\u0027s more like in lingo that we\u0027re talking about as this is a FAQ whereas yeah it might be not really a fact but it\u0027s basically we\u0027re describing for which LSP this label was allocated and that\u0027s we\u0027re verifying that this OSP echo request arrived on the LSP that this label been allocated for so basically we one of their main om or goals that our speaking achieves is to verify their consistency between the control plane and the data plane so that their endpoint receives their LSP being from the Elco request from their OSP that the label being assigned for so basically there there is a correlation between the control plane when the label was assigned to the data plane status where this echo request arrived from so what you\u0027re saying is that your first "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:15",
    "text": "sentence that should be reference to RCA t29 in the existing target effect TLV okay anyone that actually know if the target effectively is defined for poor are sleeping yeah and again it could be lingo but yes it\u0027s called RSVP not rsvp-te and that\u0027s I believe how it\u0027s recorded in a Jana registry RSVP Tarek Francisco yeah yeah the LSP FAQ the 5-tuple basically its defined and I believe RFC 3209 it is carried in the OEM packet as a target fact is that what you intend is that your model train you yeah no I think that again third the question is whether they\u0027re RSVP FAQ is a correct or is the accurate name or it shouldn\u0027t be our cpt FAQ right I think it\u0027s enough identification to identify that LSP or that label that right and and there\u0027s five items there that at least we\u0027re trying to model in the rsvp-te model were using five tuple to identify that LSP if that\u0027s what you mean Nagato from Cisco in eighty twenty nine we have it defined as RSVP ipv4 LSP and ipv6 LSB the differentiates between definite is family yeah right but again if I understand your question correctly is that should it be rsvp-te ipv4 ipv6 back yeah but my understanding is that for one reason or another in Ayana it\u0027s recorded as RSVP ipv4 if you they expect this might be mode that I need to go check it again but there might be a couple of words something they need to do in there to make it clear okay yeah I think I mean again it\u0027s like LBP ipv4 and RSVP ipv4 so it\u0027s basically uses the protocols that we used to I know instantiate the LSP path so I\u0027m not sure if we really need to define if it is for traffic engineering because I\u0027m not aware of any other application of RSVP to instantiate the LS piece okay further questions okay thank you Greg this is uh "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:30",
    "text": "Nagendra from Cisco this is a draft that clarifies the length for the sub t elvis that is defined in RFC 8287 this was identified as part of Interop testing with the NTC so RFC 8287 basically defines the you know they targeted FEC stacks of TLV for segment routing IGP prefix said and not just since he said so one off for the thing that was most in RFC 8287 is to you know clarify if or how the length of the sub TLB should be you know computer so this is an example of one off for the targeted FEC stacks up tlv which is for y GP prefix segment ID so as you could see one of the field is a result field so there are you know implementation where some implementation considers the result field as part of the length while defining the TLV but another implementation does not include this which basically created some Interop issue so this draft basically clarifies that to address the center of issues so we basically defined that the resort field must be considered while you know computing the length field so it explains are the different sub tlvs and identifies you know what would be the length along with a couple of you know examples so it\u0027s a pretty straightforward done a simple draft that basically we believe is a logical fix for one of the intra problem like Kalos mentioning I know this is recently adopted as a workgroup document and this being a straightforward Dom or fix we believe this is ready for workgroup loss but any comments or feedback so welcome okay thank you one point that is more for procedure you actually need to send a request for a working group class call to the working group shares it\u0027s more for our bookkeeping them for anything else but it makes it easier this is question from Howie and this is a new trust named RSP it\u0027s time for cyclic queuing and forwarding or pundit or agency so let\u0027s begin with the background of these large-scale deterministic Network which we are doing in the dead tonight working group and LDN aims to achieve fondant latency forwarding on layers three networks and the contain long distance links and large numbers of nodes and flows and out in record sites all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:30",
    "text": "packets sent from the upstream water in a specific cycle must be sent to the downstream water within another specific cycle because in our DNA we maintains three cues in a specific interface and those cues are cyclic schedule therefore in Audion its request at dates prime animals is used to indicate which optional cycle packets belongs to so that a downstream node could use this indication to put the packet into the right receiving hue so if we consider a specific package once the cycle for the sending packets in the ingress node is determined the one in the us node is determined to such achieving into in only the latency so this is the airspeed is crying for a secure life the idea is very single the downstream node allocates three different empires labels for each ESP and advertises information to the upstream node by using signaling protocols such as r2 Apte so each of these levels is associated with a specific queue in the abdominals as throwing the right figure we assume that if the package is sent from the upstream node q1 it should be labeled waste 1003 and if the packet is informed q2 it should be leveled waste one solid and one so about the FIB installation we assume that a package sent from the upstream node q1 q2 and q3 should be put into the downstream nodes q3 T 1 and Q 2 respectively note that how to is establish such making relationship will be described in the future version of this document and therefore the package since form downstream North Q 1 will be put into the time frame node q3 so on and so forth so in this way that into in the pounding the latest thing could be achieved as for the LD interrupt so next steps about the straps we will describe how to establish the mapping relationship we have a self-learning McNamee indicates prime and we need more suggestions and comments on this new work Thanks Rajiv oh sorry Cisco so I\u0027m just a drop also specify how the mapping how "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:32",
    "text": "the upstream neighbor would learn about the distinct labels for the same prefix but differentiated by the cues or the class of services to the upstream neighbor currently our solution it\u0027s like it doesn\u0027t matter which lie both extremely I would associate it to a specific you because today we have a self-learning magnin\u0027s of mechanism in the downstream node to learn this information for example if I receive a package Labrador is one solid and one in the downstream note it can automatically send this packet in a specific queue in a local computation I can animate the loss if the node one is sending the packet with one label 1001 to node 2 node 2 locally is somehow changing 1001 into 1,002 1,003 1,004 depending on the queues internally yeah if I follow that right then what\u0027s then it\u0027s local to the node then why does it need to be or does it not mean to be conveyed to the external set of neighbors like node 1 and if if there\u0027s no need then we can because the chance to you know the master knows that a group of package belongs to a cycle in the upstream node and another group of packets around to another cycle in the optional so that\u0027s why we should use three levels to identify this deformation but is that supposed to be the internal to the node it\u0027s supposed to be external to the node the usage of distinct labels per Q it\u0027s just the local information it\u0027s at answering them so ready we can I try to well clarify at least for me your question so sending a packet to a node does that has a specific label depending on which Q should go into that\u0027s what you mean with external or is it just inside the node and when it comes out again on the outgoing interface it has a just one single label for him right if you need so if I really intending to specify the internal node specific local behavior or we are specifying something that changes the either the data plane on the wire or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:34",
    "text": "the control plane on the wire or both and that\u0027s what I\u0027m struggling with so maybe I can clarify this if the downstream node received a package this is the first packet from this afternoon node it\u0027s received and this level is 1001 and it will if it receives this packet in psycho X so it will map this rabble to psycho X plus 2 so it will establish the meta-narrative relationship size each which level should be mapped to which kill and use this mapping relationship to instruct the subsequent packet so it\u0027s just a local computation procedure if it\u0027s a local computation and behavior change mean most implementations today do something similar from the queuing point of view by looking at an MPLS TC bits as an example of previously known as exp and then what are the value might be there map it to one of those many cues that the implementation on the platform may have that\u0027s all the local behavior right I mean we don\u0027t really specify how that gets done internal inside the implementation say if the the intent of the graph is to specify what\u0027s what the implementation might intend to do to map an incoming packet to one of many cues and I\u0027m not shift that needs to be standardized so maybe I can describe the detailed details in that it\u0027s flying in the future version of the document and they wouldn\u0027t say we can talk about more sure yeah and maybe we can talk offline as well actually a Greg nurse kzt especially for the dead net if even if it\u0027s a local behavior I think that might be helpful and useful to do the document that explains it because there are a lot of needs to be required coordination and everything has to act in accord in order to achieve their objectives of that net so yes it might look like it\u0027s low chimera and implementation but it might be important and let\u0027s look at this more because it should it might be just need to be advertised as capability Yanis focus I have a question for clarification first "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:35",
    "text": "the title mentions cqf cyclic Ewing and forwarding and first slide refers to the so-called large-scale I\u0027m confused what it is about the cyclic queueing forwarding is to I typically standard 802 doctrine to see H that is fall into a 2.1 queue 2018 I\u0027m sorry 10 of misleading because this traveler is target liked scale Network deterministic networking and all right our Tian Yu\u0027s and somehow enhanced seeker I have to achieve upon data latency so maybe the terms he\u0027s not cracked I think that\u0027s a different approach so it\u0027s misleading to the oscqr okay and for that I would like to mention just a previous session in this room in that not that there was a lengthy discussion on the basic proposal you refer to and it\u0027s not clear what\u0027s the next step forward and what what the next step we are taking what is needed it has been shown that the mathematical proof is incorrect so it\u0027s up it\u0027s open what\u0027s happening in that net and what would be the next step thank you for the questions can I ask how many actually read the document like three four okay there are clarifications that we are asking for best understood so please go ahead and do those and post in your audition thank you someone new you know performance management encapsulation oh you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:40",
    "text": "okay so let\u0027s sorry let\u0027s do the mean prayer first and then we so we swap in the last two presentations because we have a error in the data tracking Jenny Kumar Broadcom before I go in this drafts discussion I\u0027ll talk about the background of the draft that how it came into the existence so there was a work which was done for customers in the IP network where they wanted to collect the data on a live packet which as we call as in band Network telemetry that work is being deployed into large MSD sees quite a few deployments are there and that\u0027s an v4 TCP UDP GRE IP and IP h ESP it\u0027s a pretty large and cap set which is being deployed so once that deployment was done the requests were coming that can we do the same thing into MPLS and then based on that the evolution of this raft happened which is in band Network telemetry and MPLS domain and hence that has the acronym mint great you are there before I go you have a question okay I can wait and just want to point that we had the discussion when original proposal for IOM as in band om came about around and I think it\u0027s not accurate and it\u0027s misleading because in band means that om packet follows the data packet and active om can be in band and actually if it\u0027s not in band then the value of this active om is very limited so in particular in MPLS and ecmp environment if the entropy label is used to generate the hash in a CMP then active who I am is as much is in band as anything else so that\u0027s why I think that try to highlight and differentiate that saying oh this is in band implying that everything else is not in band is not technically accurate "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:40",
    "text": "okay so I\u0027m not aware of that discussion so the reason I have used in band is because the goal is that the OEM packet as you\u0027re calling or the mint packet as we call in the draft must reverse the same data path in the data plate and you know if in MPOs if we\u0027re talking about active either it\u0027s BFD or info sls beeping so if we be disciplined and use entropy label on data flow and or active or a.m. that\u0027s supposed to monitor at the data flow then they are in then because in band again my interpretation is that you follow exactly the same path same notes interfaces and links so use of entropy label and the same income label encapsulation and it\u0027s applicable both to MPLS and SRM alloys I see a point I get yeah I agree with that so if you use the entropy level in the NS beeping now it can also follow the same path so if there is a suggestion to change the name we are open to that it\u0027s a first draft so coming back to the draft so as I was giving the background this has been deployed in IP networks there are conversations for deploying in in the MPLS Network I don\u0027t know if I\u0027ll be able to go in all the details but the key point is the usage of the special label composite special label as was talked earlier this raft makes use of that I don\u0027t know it\u0027s the first stuff to make use of it but I realized there are authors on this raft and the other SPL draft which are common so that\u0027s why probably they lean to use this all the suggestion to use the CSB so motivation is again that the protocol itself should be very simple it should be in band and we should be able to trace the flow of the packet which is exactly same as the original live packet flow there are a few enhancements which we can do in this which is captured in the details which is a clone mode or in band mode in man mode meaning that all the data which is being collected by inserting the metadata in the packet itself is done for the live packets and there is a clone mode we make a copy of the packet and that can be done for various reasons because the NTU the PMT you is is less the part of the packet may exceed the peon to you or there are other reasons to do that in that case there is ability to create a cloning of the cup of the packet and then the in bank collection of the data is done for the clone mode great okay there are two proposed at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:43",
    "text": "least two proposals or if not actually three in I ppm working group in no particular order one of them in inflow analyzer I say another one is postcard and another one is hybrid two-step they are not data plane specific at least IFA does have or discusses defines a use of cloning method to obtain actually I personally prefer for this type of telemetry collection as on path telemeter connection similar to on pass support hybrid two step proposes to collection of data in the follow-up packet that has the same transport layer encapsulation as a data packet so the data packet effectively is only a trigger all telemeter information is in the follow-up vagin and actually the HCC defines that if this packet is full then another packet can be generated so basically will arrive with the train of telemetry information filled packets and postcard is that when telemetry is exported of each note that traversed by the trigger packet right so thank you for that so I can give a brief background on that conversation which Greg just talked about so if you look carefully there are three parts to the proposal and these proposal are also moving in the IP PM group there is a protocol and cap part especially in the IP then there is a data header part that how do you represent the data in a in a way where you can figure out either to check some of the data the length of the data or put some control information and then the data itself so there are various proposal for the packet and cap I agree and this is a proposal which is very very simple in the IP and it\u0027s deployed so we have a proof point that it works right I\u0027m talking to various folks in area where we can have some agreement on the data header as well as the data types so data types become a registry and then based on the registry we can define namespaces which is essentially the set of data types which uses the common data header and then they can be carried over in different protocols protocols could be a postcard could be IOM could be IFA so and so forth and the same proposal follows here in this case the protocol becomes very simple because protocol and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:43",
    "text": "cap is done using the CSV this is use cases that a set of use cases and they are very basic there are advanced uses use cases which can be built on that that was just a summary of those use cases this is the terminology the way we have defined and I believe based on the input if mint or in-band network telemetry is not the right acronym then then we have to change the labels so I\u0027m okay with that but just to give you an idea what essentially it says that mint is a domain where all the nodes are participating in mint essentially collecting the data on a per packet basis the node in a domain is called as a mint node and the mint label which is which is the CSP which is the extended label using the label extension 15 is an are located in the draft we have taken a Liberty to use the first label which is 16 since nothing was used so far but that\u0027s just an attempt if that\u0027s not the right thing we can always change that mint metadata is the information or is the data set which is collected on a per node per packet basis there are functions on the node and these are the these are the functions which either sit on the edge of the domain or sit within the middle of the domain the edge of the domain is defined by the node which performs the initiation function or the termination function initiation means that when the packet comes in there is an insertion of mint header and also the mint metadata by that node and then the transit nodes all they do they do the detection part that yes this is a mint packet it has a presence of the CSP label and then based on that it inserts the method it adds some predefined location and then the last node at the edge which is the termination node does the same thing that it detects that it\u0027s a mint packet and then based on it\u0027s a copy of the packet then it drops it if it\u0027s a live packet or in-band packet then it strips the foreign data creates a report and report could be anything it could be postcard for exact example and then sends it out to the collector so that\u0027s the domain and the nodes and the functions this was the terminology which is used in the draft throughout right I wonder if you consider it instead of using label to indicate use just associate the channel type that\u0027s also in the in the draft we have not put the appendix of all the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:45",
    "text": "considerations there is an issue with that and I can have a side conversation with using the ESS actually we cater it in the draft that what are the other options which will consider right because again in 1588 propagation over MPLS so in this RFC residence time measurement we proposed to transport 1588 through the domain is associated channel a new type and then collect on each node residence time in a scratch field and that can be used not only it can be used either to measure residence time across the path or it can be used as well for correction of 1588 clock so from the master to the slave and actually there is a description of how you can manipulate TTL on the label because you can discover which nodes participate in it so then not every node can be compliant the problem with their label might happen in SR MPLS because you you might then have to insert this label multiple times based on what their maximum depth of label stack nodes can support any other main right so this was the ACH header was considered there were various issues which were identified they are not captured in the left I will send you offline you can review provide me your rebuttal if you agree or not and then I think we will capture it in the appendix yes but ok so I was reinvention so my second question was assertive hog the mic have you look at the applicability of this approach to asaramji OS yes yes and in the first iteration of the draft it is not captured it works in the SRM Paris but then you have to allow multiple insertions of this label in a stack so in this presentation I am not covering s all what is considered and there is a packet flow which we will circulate in the next iteration Allah it\u0027s Adrian can I make a plea to you to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:47",
    "text": "take the explicit ion a value out of your draft and replace it with the letters TBD I will do that to get Marty vio you have to be anything you like because it\u0027s really dangerous putting values in drafts you\u0027ve picked one that has been allocated already by Ayane for something else realize that yeah so example of mint deployment where an MPLS domain is actively be actively participating in maintainer collection as you can see in ER has been designated with a mint initiation and the termination function and by the way there are logical functions same physical node may be performing both the functions that confusion happens whenever we talk about it but there is just a logical representation of the topology and transit routers the LS R\u0027s are the one which are acting as the mint transit nodes or mint nodes inserting the metadata and on the penultimate hop both the behaviors are supported where we can do the PHP and in that case the last hops metadata actually is not available some deployments it might be okay some deployments it\u0027s not okay and the reason this is being considered is ability to put less stress stress on the hardware if hardware has to do the label pops and then the second set of lookups it becomes very expensive to do the hardware implementation I see a problem you are you have like three four minutes left other than half just lies so you have to come to conclusion I\u0027ll go faster this is the packet format and in this case the CSP is the extension label and the mint label and then there is the stack of mints which is present you can go on the text the tunnel mood is supported again this draft does not go in the details of the tunnel mode but the basic concept is propagation those edits will come in the next set of draft which is the propagation that whenever mint packet enters into an another tunnel just like TTL propagation we can have a configuration which says that propagate the mint information when it enters into the tunnel what essentially it means that we can unable still a poor packet flow and we will collect the data before it enters into the tunnel mode in the tunnel itself and when it transits the tunnel then also the data is collected "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:45:47",
    "text": "so that\u0027s the tunnel mode in the transport mode there is only a single stack which is present and again this is to ease the implementation that if there are some hardware limitations where it\u0027s not it\u0027s very expensive to support two modes then the tunnel mode then transport mode may be a good idea I\u0027ll just quickly go over the header before at this so that my time is close this is the header and in this if you see by the way here I use TBA but in the draft we ended up using actually a label so there are two headers one is a mint header which has the control information and this header influences the behavior of the packet in the data path it tells what to do what not to do then there is a metadata header it has no control information it does not control the behavior of the packet all it has that was the length of the metadata what kind of metadata to collect is there a need to take an action on the metadata itself let\u0027s say we do some kind of thresholding and what is the current length there are some implicit checks which can be done use this information with sort of functions like a control function but they\u0027re really not a control function and the reason I am bringing it in the IPP and working group the other proposals ended up putting a lot of information in the in the mint metadata header and there was a feedback that that really breaks the paradigm of the layering of the header information okay so next protocol feel is the one which can be used to create a chain and this is something very very interesting because when you put the mint header then you can actually indicate what kind of payload is carrying I\u0027m going to stop on stop here the next steps is that we are looking for review and comments on the graph so a little couple of slides back to the tunnel mode yeah so I understand the ingress you add or copy the the mint label the overlay so what happens in the egress and there\u0027s a transit tunnel and if you want to recap slate and send it out kind if you have data in the mint at the outer layer what do you intend to do so in this so that\u0027s a very good question yeah so there are two ways we can handle it I can with we can reflect it back into the inner mint stack and that\u0027s how that mint data can be carried and it may may be OK for the flexible NP use which can do much more flexible processing of the data but fixed pipelines it\u0027s not ok there is a mode which is supported which is called as a fragment in that case we can take this data along with the packet send it out to the collector instead of reflecting it back into the inner ok it\u0027s not a questioner crisp and clear yes 30 seconds yeah I strongly encourage you to read hybrid to step and I afraid drafts "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:47",
    "text": "or the similarities and then being around so let\u0027s think how can we work together ok thank you very much you take this to the list and I expect the authors likely to be posting discussion on the list hello everyone I\u0027m Sami from GTE I\u0027m going to present chapter 10 amperes in Ben p.m. encapsulation this is a 0 0 version draft ok an intention of this job is Jeff the defiance to the encapsulation for amperes in band performance measurement this method is based on FC 8321 Audrey the marking method this method requires amperes flow identification which is a disgusting RFC 83 72 and the Salone synonymous flow label is a way to do this flow identification but it\u0027s a bit complex to manage and it seems not applicable to nested flow ID so this chapter PI\u0027s a special-purpose label this slide demonstrates the Indian PM encapsulation it requests in band PM indicator label it\u0027s a special-purpose label and is followed by a flow ID label that includes candidates flow ID values one bit lost marking a one bit delay marking and all these fields are required by FC 8321 alternate marquee method this is the first example to illustrate the stereo how flow ID label can be applied to RSV in this example you can see florida label is not at the bottom of the label stack and the PW label or we RF label at the bottom of labor stack this is the second example to illustrate the scenario float ID label is the bottom of the label "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:51:49",
    "text": "stack in this in our scenario it can be used to measure the PW or PRF so that\u0027s a different example with the previous one this is the third example in this scenario for right Nestea the flow ID exists in a label stack so it can be used and can be applied to SP as well as PW or we have so among the two flow ID label one is at the bottom of the label stack and another one is not settled bottom okay that\u0027s the step as former review revise the draft and they ask for working group adoption I think question comments any questions ok so we are at the end of agenda thank you and you need to take this to the list and actually authors need to push the discussion on the list so we concluded the meeting next time is where monster all going back to we start this kind of thing where we give him back to the same set before a second or third or the fourth time so Montreal is the place been before I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s the same motel but I remember some good place so see you there safe trips [Music] [Music] [Music] "
  }
]