[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "and a half would anyone like to volunteer for virtual Goldstar take notes for the second half for it for the second half of the meet in the second hour clearly everybody had clearly everybody had had very good lunches McHale is gonna be our jabber scribe we do need reviewers for working group drafts always and general please add tht to GT any ID submitted my hard-working coach shirt didn\u0027t do that to one of his drafts they\u0027ll explain why later okay a standing reminder document quality relies on reviews please review documents in your group at least one other document from other working group if you\u0027d like documents that you care about reviewed please put any effort to review review other documents ok conscience and status we had grandiose plans got a whole lot of stuff done since Montreal we got a few things done but as you\u0027ll see uh best laid plans of mice and then went went slightly off the rails the DCP Ayana process changes draft is published as RFC 8436 this is setting up for getting the lower effort of the diffserv lower effort phb draft publish which which should be happening between now and prague we have 100 draft the RFC under queue it\u0027s been there a long time diffserv and web RTC QoS it\u0027s in this reference about web RTC drafts if you read Alyssa\u0027s blog this is part of the infamous cluster 238 that the WebRTC folks are really trying really really trying to clear this time fortunately all of our other drafts that were part 238 we\u0027ve managed to to extract we won\u0027t tell you what tools were using who we use the bada so this this is this is this is only one left and I am fervently grateful the TSV WG is not on the critical path for the web RTC tar draft tarball thank you very much to everybody who helped who who helped us help this get not get into that state all right three internet drafts at iesg the SCTP errata an issues draft is there will be an update later in this meeting Spencer will lose is losing yet more of what little hair he has over this one the two FEC drafts are at the iesg we will have an update on those later in the meeting the framework extension draft is in fine shape needs a few minor edits the sliding window random linear code draft actually explains how to do something useful engine a number discusses there are some security issues and some issues around source code and source source code copyright Vincent will be here later than later meeting to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:04",
    "text": "update those diffserv lower effort PHP in still is still in my hands my intent is to get the artsy publication request to be submitted later this week and finish working group last call we\u0027ve made some minor updates and I simply run out of time in October to send the publication request so not to re Spencer you shall have a job no idea last call we\u0027re going to need to second to real ask all the EC an encapsulation draft the two shown here we had people who signed up to review and then your working group chairs neglected to nag the reviewers we won\u0027t neglect to nag reviewers next time around we won\u0027t name won\u0027t name names to participate to protect the innocent there are additional working group IDs interaction on the slide transfer header confidentiality impacts has been added since the last last IETF this is this is usual cast of characters we\u0027re trying working moving forward on them all right we related drafts the fonts gone down in this slide we\u0027re clearly getting popular there are three drafts on ipv6 path MTU discovery electron whose last time I hope I have much too badly is going to talk about the one in the middle which is a Silkwood G which is a general sort of solution address space draft exploring what\u0027s what\u0027s possible tcp go ahead that once on wednesday no okay sorry so you talk about in this in this meeting I forget the last class time we hit me at all session on the same day teach me encapsulation considerations ipv6 reservation protocol priority scheduling switcher for our party party switching scheduler yeah draft Finzi this one is this one\u0027s in good shape there have been reviews and here I get to here I get to pull another eye pockit thank reviewers Vincent Roca Nicolas Kuhn I think it\u0027s not a co-author that myself and Ruettiger guide all reviewed this draft I talked in a pen submission editor at the reception yesterday and he agrees that what we plant do this draft would you send it to the Senate to the independence mission editor with a recommendation twg seems like a fine way to handle this draft overlay fording behavior this is on the wednesday TS vwg Genda but we might get four today depending on how a basket Genda and a draft on passive RTT measurement that is a generalization of the of the well-known perhaps too well-known a quick spin back over the SFC working group a draft Eastlake is still being worked on this is going to be the use of the tunnel congestion feedback mechanism in that expired draft and work-in-progress three drafts and the interior working group draft interior "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:07",
    "text": "tunnels is a general draft but tunnels for us it\u0027s the MTU considerations that are particularly relatives working group fragmentation fragility and Sox protocol vert version 6 ok so the agenda here we will do gender bashing in a minute Monday\u0027s agenda doctrine accomplishments the status which were in the middle of milestones of you about to come and drafts and on Wednesday yet more drafts ok milestones review this is where some of our best laid plans ran aground these are all yellow / orange because we didn\u0027t quite get that done get them done first one will happen this week I will get the publication question on the lower effort of per hop behavior next three september milestones are for the l4s drafts we were a little bit over the optimistic about when these are going to get done your chair chairs best guess right now is we\u0027re going to put June 29 29 days on them and hope and hope that\u0027s more realistic for getting these three core drafts through we still have we still have open technical issues against these October there were two drafts these are the two Telegraph\u0027s needed working class called again we\u0027re going to move those dates February 19 hoping that we can last call them nothing major happens and they can be submitted publication thereafter the SCTP net draft well that was an interesting theory I got delayed by the SCTP erotic adventure about which will have more to stay this meeting I\u0027m going to move that to April UDP transport options this one seems to be relatively stable it\u0027s on the Wednesday agenda we\u0027re guessing that it\u0027s just about done and we may be able to submit it for last call in like January or early February submitted in February packetization path MTU discovery for Datagram that means UDP and the like December 22 optimistic move that to August of next year and telling session feedback I have no idea this one\u0027s taken a while guessing April 2020 December 2019 is still a good guess for the are the SCTP Biss draft and we need to add new milestone for transport header confidentiality draft and we\u0027re gonna put that as September 2019 any comments from anybody affected are not affected by the milestones seeing none we\u0027ll carry on with that okay so here we go with the agenda and it\u0027s probably Genda I\u0027m gonna we\u0027re gonna cover a few small small items probably gender review so we\u0027ve just done workgroup trashley draft some milestones an errata reminder just shortly prior to the montreal meeting we put an errata into our 11 Eastern experimentation Ayane needed to put a I hadn\u0027t needed a justification to put a footnote in the registry that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:07",
    "text": "ECT one is for experimental use only we filed the errata I am a put put the footnote the registry nothing to see nothing to see here move nothing to see here move along agenda bash we\u0027re about to get into you gory anything on hackathon update um does anybody have any work on the hackathon that they want to report I know that Tom\u0027s done stuff on implementation work that he\u0027s going to talk about on Wednesday is there anybody else do anything that they want to talk about please tell us and please do working the hackathon okay okay check that off all right into today\u0027s agenda we\u0027re going to start with the transport header encryption impacts then we get an update convinced sent on the FEC drafts and I suspect we\u0027re gonna have some indie discussion there to make sure we understand what what the options are for the path forward there on the FEC Scheme draft let me do a l4s which is going to include the out of order for ting discussion there\u0027s also an alpha us and diffserv draft that comes that comes of the septa Genda item to try to isolate those there\u0027ll be an update on the quick and easy end discussion from last time and oh by the way if you\u0027re interested in transport issues and quick tomorrow\u0027s tea CPM session 1122 12:20 is entirely devoted to congestion control and loss to loss recovery comparison between quick and TCP to take a look at how quick is doing things and dig in dig in dig into the details you\u0027re interested in that now you know what when when what says you\u0027re looking for him when it is new work on diffserv as time permits diffserv to QC I\u0027m mapping I don\u0027t is there anybody here or on the remote to present on this I don\u0027t think so so what we\u0027re going to do is we\u0027re going to swap this with the last draft on the Wednesday agenda which is the the the overlay forwarding behavior draft as I believe the one of the authors of QC I draft will be here in Wednesday non cue building flows and then Bob goes up for round two for a more L forest and diffserv discussion moving to Wednesday Wednesday is a Transfer Protocol drafts UDP options and there\u0027s Corey\u0027s draft without TS vwg in its name oh thank you David it\u0027s not got TS vwg in the name because it\u0027s a feedback from a map RG presentation which you might want to come to in between the two TSV sessions that wasn\u0027t that you might want to come to his name to the entire working group just having fun up here SCTP drafts probably mostly about forty nine sixty forty nine sixty errata what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:07",
    "text": "are we gonna do about that and moving forward to 460 bits Datagram uh p @p l mt p MTU discovery and then more pet more PMT you discovery this time in ipv6 and finally we\u0027re going to swap this overlay forwarding behavior draft with the cues with with the q CI draft in my copious spare time I\u0027ll prepare an updated version of these slides of that where that reflects that reflects that swap okay anything missing anybody want to further bash the agenda well you can tell all your friends and family you actually saw an agenda bash we made some changes one more one more related event this Saturday after Saturday afternoon there\u0027s an actively 802 IETF data center workshop Paul Paul Condon whom you\u0027ve seen here working on congestion isolation is the principal organizer of this there are several congestion topics on the agenda if you\u0027re here Saturday afternoon this might be a productive use your time it\u0027s in this hotel there\u0027s no fee but you do need to write you do need to register in advance details and I assume in a bill the find the registration link are at they are at that URL and Paul you want to stand up for a minute or raise your hand if you have any question about that that\u0027s Paul all right let\u0027s see what see what are we up to next all righty do that okay colony you\u0027re going to talk about the track that we\u0027ve been working on I that would be okay but I\u0027d like you to take the wonderful red box I prefer to call it a red box we\u0027re two men Li for it to be a pink box you want to study the pink box all right all right greetings my name is Colin Perkins I\u0027m going to be talking about the draft we have on the impact of Transport header encryption on network operations what\u0027s happened so next slide please if we can figure out how to work its lights yeah see what happens when you fill up the slides of 4:3 aspect ratio and the screen is sixteen by nine "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:07",
    "text": "solution yeah yeah and then we go forward okay excellent good well see if we can work it takes to working of Cherry Bomb all right if you can do a first attendant make you an area barracks all right so we have been running this draft for a while I present 2:09 version of the individual draft in montreal we got some feedback about meeting we submitted a best ten version in August to hopefully address that feedback it was then adopted as a working group draft the zero zero version of the working group draft was submitted with no content changes just to changing the file name and then we submitted zero one version just prior to this meeting to fix a few more Nicks changes since Montreal we have added a set of examples briefly talking about showing the impacts of ossification on the transport protocols in particular this mentions a multipath TCP and and the issues with middleboxes that track congestion window growth and get upset when multiple TCP at least some versions of it\u0027s made the congestion window grow in a way they didn\u0027t expect we mentioned briefly TCP fast open and the issues of middle boxes which misbehaved when they saw unknown TCP options or that get upset when you had some data on packets with a syn bit set and things like that we talked about some of the issues we\u0027ve sac where there were middle boxes which rewrite TCP sequence numbers but don\u0027t understand the sack option and therefore end up with very inconsistent TCP packets and cause chaos and so on and so on we\u0027ve also revised the introduction to perhaps better explain what the point of this draft is we\u0027ve revised some discussion about the observation points and the rationale for on path measurements which just wasn\u0027t terribly clear to keep Brian happy and then he goes and not turns up to this meeting we\u0027ve referenced the what wire image draft that he wrote and we\u0027ve made a bunch of editorial fixes and updated the references and all those usual things so open issues remaining not too much I don\u0027t think we need to look at and revise the conclusions which are currently long and perhaps could be described as rambling and not necessarily making a clear point and just make them a bit crisper and you actually have a actually conclusion in the draft and we have a section in there which is talking about metrics derive from the network layer headers which again it\u0027s not quite clear how well it fits in the draft some of this the discussion there about things like ECM code points here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:08",
    "text": "is a clear relation to exposed or not exposed transport headers and that I think is a clear fit with what we\u0027ve got in this drift of a part of it talk about things like diffserv or the ipv6 flow label and there\u0027s clearly good operational reasons for for looking at those for managing the network they have obvious implications friends when performance but it\u0027s not clearly necessarily interact with the the issues around encrypting the transport headers so we might we might consider taking that out also if we wish to talk about some of the work people are discussing with path layer and and hesitant to say the word plus or spud but plus or spud then this would be the appropriate section to do that if we want to do it and we\u0027re considering whether whether to expand that section and include that sort of discussion or just to trim it down to something much more focused on perhaps just DC encode points and another hole what else and you know if people have opinions or suggestions for what the right way to go in there and that is then we would be happy to hear them and similarly if you have any any suggestions for what you think we ought to be concluding then we would be happy to discuss that and then hear what you think and if not we will just conclude something but we think the draft is pretty close to complete as I say we\u0027re looking for input but if not we we hope to revise this and get it ready for working group wise called suddenly before the next meeting have you had any review from the problem the privacy community yet we have had review from a bunch of people some of them may count as being privacy do you have anyone in particular in mind yes but name name not mentioned Mike at Mike to protect the innocent and the guilty okay I could use my working group chair hunt to ask should we make any recommendations in this document or should we just conclude I mean our nut maybe isn\u0027t really - Cullen so much to the rest of the working group this document exists at the moment with conclusions summarizing what it says it doesn\u0027t make any recommendations about the future that could be the place of another document may well be but if people have a strong opinion on this please speak up before we get to working group last call yes I mean my my opinion is that this would probably be this is probably better suited as a draft which discusses the issues and if someone wishes to make strong recommendations for what people should do in future that\u0027s a different draft we may make a conclusion that it would be perhaps beneficial for someone to write that draft and I see a couple of people nodding not volunteering to write the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:10",
    "text": "draft I suspect and the ad headed for the mic um mr. Dawkins the outgoing transport area director it\u0027s just so good every time I say it so the thing about the thing about you know the discussion of the issues and then and then what you know what the plan is after that I think that I think that\u0027s going to be really important to do that in two pieces and because I and I\u0027m saying that not just because I think it will be easier to get the first material out if there\u0027s not a lot of baggage with it but mostly to say that I expect that that output to be useful in a variety of places at the IETF and outside the IETF and places that could have reasonably benefited from it five years ago so to me hanging on to that a minute longer than needs to then you need to hang on to it is not help is not serving the Internet or the ITF well don\u0027t let it but don\u0027t let go of it before it\u0027s ready you know I\u0027m not asking for that but I think I think that you I think that what you were suggesting my understanding of what you were suggesting is exactly the right thing to do from my perspective I\u0027ve been wrong before and I\u0027m willing to and I\u0027m willing to be convinced otherwise but that that\u0027s my best guidance to you all okay thank you Michael Abrahamson so the same way that you and beginning here had drafts that are relevant to this working group I think this work is relevant to other working groups so we should ping before last call here because they did I just I I\u0027m going to read this document and already I saw the MSS statement here interfere with both MTU discovery I don\u0027t understand where that statement comes from and why it states that I would like to know more I\u0027m gonna make that comment you know on the list I\u0027m sure others will want to make comments on other stuff in the drive so we should ping relevant groups who are you know with me ended in the business of moving packets and see if they agree with what\u0027s in the document okay and okay as a co-author on this I think that\u0027s really valuable and the reason I asked the other clear the question was to figure out because we may nearly be done with this and it may be just the right time to start asking wider input on this document if it\u0027s looking good next rep should be put before other people to really see that they have a buy-in I see Cullen nodding you know I guess he\u0027ll say more if he wants to yes so the the MSS thing may just be my sloppy writing on the slide so read the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:11",
    "text": "draft before commenting on I read it it has the same sentence in the graph it says TCP MSS rewrite might interfere with path MTU discovery it\u0027s in the latest rep so you got it right there it\u0027s what\u0027s in the draft then I don\u0027t agree with it so I want to know more I think there are going to be more more more of those things so yeah I said I think you\u0027re right that it should go for while yes I mean it has it has been discussed in at least OPSEC I think it was the last meeting so it has had a little bit of wider review but yeah more is clearly welcome can I can I take you up on the MSS thing while while you\u0027re still not sure and so if you you do MSS cramping then this is as an author rather than as a chair but if you do MSS clumping and then you inhibit what your peel PMT UD algorithm can then increase the MTU too so if there\u0027s a path MTU of 16 K and the MSS clamped to 1500 then 1500 is the biggest you can go to record the TCP spec correct which means that now you can\u0027t figure out the path actually supports a bigger MSS which it does because the end system says it does because the MSS is an end-to-end a negotiation and therefore this seems to be some sort of a combination of two different things the end-to-end negotiation what might some segment size was done at the end to end point and then the network somehow changed that to prevent it doing path MTU discovery sure okay I\u0027m just gonna say do you want an answer now or yeah a little bit of discussion okay so the operator who put in the egg at the clamping statement there on the road roof probably you had a pretty good idea what the MTU was on the link that that is handling these packets so this is a this is he like the way I see people using it it\u0027s okay pppoe and oh oh by the way we screwed up the path MTU discovery so we\u0027re gonna clamp them MSS to 1452 or whatever it is for me for to do this um so even if the end systems have 16 km - but doesn\u0027t matter either all the packets need to traverse this link where the operator said you know I want to climb to protocol sure I can give you lots of data which shows that operators at some point in the network path are clamping to numbers that are smaller than the actual segment size they actually support we did probing measurements because and these were not people who were doing nice PPE or a or whatever encapsulations there were people who optimistically reducing a little bit to make the network a little bit more reliable in their view for so maybe we should 25 at this yes but it\u0027s like okay there should be more if there is a discussion somewhere they\u0027re talking about this we should reference it and otherwise the statements asked this is is not enough text there it needs to be somewhat something more about it and that was a good thing to have at the mic because we accept any comments similarly on any other pieces this if you could "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:14",
    "text": "send think the list that would be helpful yeah thank you so it\u0027s mr. Dawkins speaking as the research group draft editor for the pen RG what not to do draft which is I think in some way similar to this because you know basically you\u0027re characterizing a whole lot of stuff that didn\u0027t happen here I I found with my draft that it\u0027s it\u0027s turning out to be important to get people who are responsible for the things I\u0027m characterizing to look at them and make corrections and things like that I to me that\u0027s almost like an early review thing that you could kick off at any time so I trust you guys to manage the working group speaking back as Spencer the area director but the authority speaking it well speaking speaking back is speaking back as the editor my friendly advice would be you know don\u0027t wait till i TL s called do that because you don\u0027t have to have that conversation in front of everybody you just need to have in front somebody who knows you\u0027re wrong thank you Martin Duke f5 networks I I don\u0027t know a diplomatic way to ask this what would what do you hope to achieve with this draft I mean obviously quick is pretty far down the road of hiding all this stuff are you advocating that future work and the quick working group expose the stuff in network headers no I\u0027m advocating that there\u0027d be a discussion between the protocol designers and the network operators to figure out what if anything needs to be exposed and if things are not being exposed if we find to figure out a way of addressing the needs which those network operators have been addressing by looking at the transport headers okay I mean a so I\u0027m sympathetic to that viewpoint in many ways but this been bit experience suggests there\u0027s a lovely experience it that that\u0027s going to be very difficult sure for anything non-trivial sure I agree at least the Cooper said on said on a job or that um she thought that this should go to for security area review as well and so not only like trying to reach operate or like a little bit also security yes should we do that soon David afternoon ex relative that sounded like what I think I heard from Colin "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:17",
    "text": "which is at Nix Nix Nix Trevor we ready ready for wider review I\u0027m gonna guess I\u0027ll top of my head at least at least ops int and at least ops int and security at least one I think former at the time security ad has given us extensive feedback on this it has it has had at least some input from that community but more is clearly better yeah mr. Dawkins speaking with a couple of hats I ended up being the editor for the Maher new workshop report where the IB had a joint workshop with GSMA talking about how to manage it radio networks in an encrypted world which is something like that what Lauren who actually stands for that conversation was not well-informed and I get to say that as a transporter director who was sitting there this document would have helped I belted on the mmm crip draft that went through the IETF and it seemed like to me that this draft would have been helpful for that situation also so I could point to at least two worked examples where I think as the responsible area director for you know this working group and a few other things that that would be that this would that this would be helpful speaking as the responsible one of the two responsible area directors or the area we had this fascinating conversation in TSP area today that was basically talking about Kevin veering off into discussions about well but you know we knew what we were doing with peps in 1998 when we published Darcy what was it 31 31 45 or whatever was in 2001 that actually came out in 2001 but the work was done before that but but we really have we in transport if not really had a meaningful conversation about what peps were intended to do and why they were why they were done and again I think that this work informs a discussion like that you know I can only say as the past as the chair as a co-chair of the concluded pill working group and satellite links are still out there you know step one right so what people do about that you know that\u0027s up to cell operators but again I think this is work that will inform a lot of decision a lot of conversations that will be had whether they aren\u0027t informed or not notice that I didn\u0027t mention quick in the spin bet which I\u0027m also responsible for asked me about my week okay okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:18",
    "text": "thank you everyone thank the : I will revise the drop all right thank you let\u0027s see you next up I think is Vincent remember the trick is to do that we have slides but what I do need to do is that new reload here haha wait good beats all right so to give context and the document that Vincent\u0027s going to talk about and was discussed in two parts that one parts already gone through I guess G this part raised discussion items from the iesg relating to how the document is put together and here we have the slides go talk about the results the iesg review yes so this talk is more specifically focusing on this second document I see sliding noise scheme we got very very good comments from ISD during the I review on this document particularly so I will try to discuss and read some of them the document has not yet been updated and while still working on the answer to the EIC overture okay so most of those comments though the most important comments we\u0027re about the teeny mg42 p on g random number generator just some background on this we have two parts is the core part of this P ing which produces a random number in the as a 42 bit value so this part is coming from the Pew Energy Office I\u0027m not concern about this and we have the second part which is matching on this value value into something smaller typically is four bits or 8 bits so that\u0027s the the mapping pot and we have our own code to do this mapping so this mapping is quite important because if you get the wrong way you will introduce biases in you in the output so be very careful about it and we also want something that is not true computing census so let\u0027s go to the commands and see how we propose to address them so the first moment was but the core thought itself is it safe across several types of platforms several types of CPUs operating systems of compilers though that\u0027s a very important question because the data mystic behavior of PNG is a key point for inter probable FEC codecs so that\u0027s very very important so the proposal our proposal is to do better tests in particularly focusing on very small devices that run specific "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:18",
    "text": "microcontrollers cortex and something and z13 we had that in mind and I\u0027m doing and proposed to do that work with a manual battery my cream was particularly competent in these domains one right at first office so these rare operating system so we started to do tests on those very small devices and compare them with what we observe with laptops with more powerful machines and the copy ing seems quite ok so we still need to be additional tests but it seems ok and mapping to a smaller range of value needs to be tested so though while working this of course there is no way we can guarantee that it will continue to work on future CPUs and future compilers but is this really a nonce yes it\u0027s a major problem but it\u0027s quite small piece of work and additionally I forgot to mention this in the slides we I want to include a set of values that must be produced by the PNG including mapping to be conformed to be convert conformant so there will be in the document a set of values if you don\u0027t produce these values on your target platform this will not work this cannot work so I think that with that it should be okay second comment is bad licensing aspect so we are copied and pasted some secret inside the documents so it comes with the original license of the authors and there is no way we can remove this license not well possible without the authorization so there is potentially a program that needs to be discussed there is no way to abstract the PNG providing just the algorithm of this pure energy because it\u0027s something quite complex and I will make mistakes if I\u0027m trying to translate it into something more like in an algorithmic way manner so I prefer to keep it as such so we need to find a way to address the solution is it compatible with the IETF let\u0027s say license yes or not I have no idea on this the original license is more or less a BSD license so it\u0027s no it\u0027s not more or less the original license is in fact BSD version 2.0 3 clause license . okay thank you so that\u0027s a no point point I have no one so as I\u0027m concerned me I could even des the ad holding that is cuts for this yeah processing issue and so that the problem is not the license the BSD license is compartment with the IETF licensed by on purpose the problem is a copyright statement in there because there\u0027s a copyright statement that the copyright only "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:19",
    "text": "belongs to the original authors while the copyright statement of the whole document including the code you\u0027ve put in there says the copyright belongs to the ITF in only the authors of the of the draft so this is a conflict that we cannot have okay I mean Stu the comment okay do you understand how it might be fixed perhaps as an option so I mean the two options we have and I\u0027m not sure if they\u0027re these are great options is removing the code and just pointing to an external stable reference or removing the code and translating it into pseudo code and that is actually a point I wanted to make on your concern one I think the main concern here was not the actual technical details if it will run or not whatever the main concern but brought up was also that it\u0027s not a good practice to describe a specification in code because that like it\u0027s hard to update and it\u0027s like yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s just better practice to describe the specification in English language and provide pseudo code examples to include it isn\u0027t it so that the one that has the copyright statement is in the Annex yeah um I actually put another question on the under legal concen we have and say you know can this not be regarded as a literal citation of something right and I didn\u0027t get a reply but I think the answer would be no if we can find a different solution that would be better I would observe that the problems here being caused by the fact that this is third-party code and it is also the case that the copyright statement that causes the problem is in fact part and parcel of how the bsd license is used so it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s not like somebody somebody did something weird like what we usually see is that we have code in a draft where the code authors are the same authors in the draft that\u0027s not the intention and hence canary in great copyright but maybe one way to go forward is to ask and the original authors to Japanese authors if they would agree to change their license or to join high school so that\u0027s one possible way to to move forward in that case in theory that is application colon Pugin so I have no inputs on the copyright issue and but just to follow up slightly on lyric mirrors come into it we do have a long history of including code in RFC is to illustrate things so I don\u0027t see that having the code is a problem if we can resolve the licensing issues okay yeah so and the common worth and I\u0027m just reflecting other carbons from other 80s was it\u0027s a problem to have code as the only specification you still should "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:19",
    "text": "specify the protocol in other terms and only have the code as it is trading what you mean like only having the code as a specification has caused problems in the past I understand and Spencer Dawkins is the responsible area director channeling area who is channeling other IDs the you know the the best people to talk to that I\u0027ve tripped over NIH G evaluation with this are probably been and Adam again maybe and maybe a look okay perhaps actor I\u0027m trying to remember but I but at least the two of them that were involved in the codec work to produce the opus codecs and codec and the basically dismiss of Kate yeah the code was the specification but everybody changed the code in their implementations so when so when they wanted to update the specification to add some functionality every they couldn\u0027t talk about functionality without everybody going in and figuring out what they\u0027ve done to their code that would be different and seeing if they could still do it and so it made it very difficult to evolve what they were talking about doing you guys could come up yeah I mean let me try it let me try and help you guys could come back and say you know this is good this is the future it will never change there would be a fine response you know it might even be true do you you can you know you can come at you you can come back and say we you know the pseudocode thing you know makes lets people who made changes to the code that\u0027s the specification there was there was the specification i and was included in the included in the RFC it helps them to help you know it helps them to have the conversation about new functionality without having to recode the realities read each other\u0027s code basically at that point so I mean I think there\u0027s I think there\u0027s ways out of this and I would really like I would really like to work with you guys on figuring out what those are like you know if having of having the conversation with the Japanese guys helps some of this please feel free if if talking to me about sending me off to play with the the IET out trust and see what we could do I\u0027m happy to do that you know it\u0027s responsible Eric Roger but like I say just you know you guys are doing I think a good job of working through the concerns that have been raised and just you know just trying to make sure that you kind of understand what my understanding is all those of those concerns no so okay thank you do the right thing Spencer I wanted to inject here a difference from the openness situation that may affect how we think about code as a spec opus was a codec you do that period here I get to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:21",
    "text": "give Vincent credit for writing two drafts he wrote this one grabbed the FE C scheme but is cluding including all that is consuming all of our time and he wrote a second draft that allows multiple schemes to be registered so those who choose to change the code should go register another scheme and they can go write the code any way they would like to we don\u0027t have to worry about migrating forward which was not the case for opus which was the one and only true codec or is it yeah an excellent point I think I think this points out again why it\u0027s important for the community to understand that discusses are a potentially multi round-trip discussion where both where both guys can say yeah but that reminds me about this other thing that that\u0027s relevant to the concern you know so I think I think that that\u0027s that could be a fine thing to point out it\u0027s helpful and true do the right thing so Cory coming back with a another one on those same thing if the record is constructed in such a way using this that you need this to decode this yeah which means that this actually is the only way of formulating this because if you don\u0027t have this PRNG sequence in it then you end up with a different chord exactly yeah so this is not like a quartet where you have quite boxing you\u0027re describing using C and it\u0027s wrong maybe I think this is the way in which these pieces are put together as transport packets this maybe just needs to be clarified along with Spencer\u0027s point along with David\u0027s point and clear the copyright thing somehow so you have several pieces but they don\u0027t seem to any of them be difficult they\u0027re just individual pieces that have to be put in place to get this right okay if you\u0027re interesting that in the working group please talk to Vincent and he\u0027s going to do the hard work I\u0027m sure to make this work yeah thank you okay and we had additional concerns and this is come some free about the way we are using the PNG the right way so we were using floating point calculation which is surely not the best way to always deterministic behavior so we remove this and we move to fools integer and mathematics so the next steps of course our address all recommends ready to all see apart from that and fake frame much easier we still have some work to be done on 1 \u0026 2 so made me second 1 and 3 and clarification on licensing aspects then I have also a question to you die speak sense to remove the spew Angie specification from the current policy document and it\u0027s something in a separate document create normative reference between the two documents so that so as to divide the programs I would say so it makes it easier to and faster to clear all the ASG discuss on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:23",
    "text": "I\u0027ll see itself and it will also increase the visibility on this PNG specification which might be use in different contexts for different protocols we are missing something I think I did a quick search before going to this development is there anything any RFC describing an existing and good enough PNG I found nothing that I\u0027m not oh well whatever has been published maybe I missed something but I think there\u0027s nothing so it could be meaningful so to have this separate genome t32 document that\u0027s a possibility we at this level we can do that this way or continue the way it\u0027s done so far with a single documents an open question - if you have an opinion as trying to channel where\u0027s you isn\u0027t here and I suggest if you have a pinions on this from the working group please talk to Vincent or use the mailing list otherwise Vincent you should work with Wes as your document Shepherd to find a solution please involve the two ADEs who obviously have some expertise was also will be able to guide you as to which of these options is the most likely door to push on first yeah I think I will do that and we hope to see this published or going for publication by the next IETF I hope yes thank you Spencer while we\u0027re changing over to the next presentation which I could tell the group what you just did while Benson was speaking there is one more approved SCTP specification dum de dum dum let\u0027s run the unit test first okay right don\u0027t often after lift the mic higher for myself right this is a bunch of drafts that were decided to put into t SP w GE so that it could sort of act as a container for the whole low latency low loss scalable throughput activity called l4s sorry I\u0027ve just realised it says ITF 102 on their next life quick recap on l4s motivation is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:34",
    "text": "extremely low queuing delay for all internet traffic and all means including link saturating traffic so ultimately the idea is that everything can go in there l 4sq the only reason there\u0027s another queue there is for legacy existing congestion controls typical measurements you get about mean of Fryman of microsecond queuing delay versus about 5 to 15 milliseconds with your best state of the art ATMs today so and the three drafts a roughly map to the about work one two three picture there although the order I\u0027m going to doing the mean isn\u0027t one two three it to sort of age anyway there\u0027s the idea is there\u0027s scalable congestion controls at the sender there\u0027s a protocol which we\u0027ve honed in on et1 as the as the Co point that signifies this traffic that\u0027s in the EC Enfield mm there\u0027s the dual Q cap of a QM that does the work in the network so the protocol is the first but I\u0027m going to go on to but before I do I\u0027ll just give you a overview of the whole talk as 25 minutes for this isn\u0027t that cool yeah well I\u0027ve got discussion of the reordering in the middle yes yep all right so there are three core alpha us working group drafts in this working group the architecture the semantics of the identifier and your cap of a QM the architectures been stable now I went through it because I\u0027m preparing for working group last call I went through it with a fine-tooth comb or fine-tooth soaring and to be honest there was very little wrong with it even though it was written quite a time ago and so there\u0027s minor updates there the identifying modified easy and semantics one was a lot more problematic in terms of it was written right at the start of the activity it was the primary thing to do to get the code point standardised and it was to be honest a bit of a mess so what I did I did it in two updates the first update I restructured it so that the diffs weren\u0027t poisoned by that I then did the text updates after I very striking it so you could see where they were thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:45",
    "text": "right I shall carry on I\u0027m male I can\u0027t do two things one right so after that complete restructuring I\u0027m now reading down the green top arrow and making it consistent with the two other drives and bring it all up to date there\u0027s a comprehensive rework of the section on other IDs I and that means other than the seats ECT one thing all the other identifiers that might possibly get used either within that dual key structure or around it in queueing are our keys and things so I\u0027ll give a summary of that but most of that is in the tips that have talked later on and then actually not in this cycle we added this requirement to be rack like hence it\u0027s in green because it\u0027s not gray because it\u0027s not in this cycle but David has raised a question on that which I will discuss or bring bring out and it\u0027s essentially about incremental deployment of all these requirements then moving on to the dual queue coupled aqm this is a sort of top-level summary so you know whether you can go and check your email or whether you really ought to listen at certain points there are a number of extra normative requirements we\u0027ve put in during a review it was pointed out that we hadn\u0027t sufficiently specified the thing the maths wasn\u0027t rigorous I\u0027ll quickly go through that the there\u0027s some this doesn\u0027t sound very interesting does it management requirement details you know there\u0027s only no words in that sentence that that sound interesting but there are there are some interesting stuff in there on how you measure queuing delay and how you compare it for the experiment and stuff like that then there\u0027s some the other two bits are pseudocode updates in the appendices and there\u0027s just a bit of news there on what we\u0027re doing and you know things like shared buffers versus dedicated buffers and stuff okay and then at the end of the talk I\u0027ll just give some heads up on what else is happening about l4s in other working groups and outside the ITF so the first draft identifying modified ecn semantics the identifier draft it\u0027s gone through two revisions bit of an eye test this one the it shows the contents before and after between three and four we\u0027re now on draw five and the primary point of all this is those two emboldened headings prerequisite transport layer behavior and prerequisite network node behavior basically all the sections are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:46",
    "text": "the same as the previous but they\u0027re just all in different orders to to collect together everything a network person has to read and everything at layer 4 person has to read all right you know for there were no tax changes hex changes come in between 4 and 5 so you can see the disk right so there are when you start talking about what other identifies you might use around l4s the first one is what identifies you might use it within it and in the next slide I\u0027ll talk about around it and this essentially shows that the default situation is you just use the ecn code point and it will work all right and it should work in to end and measurements seem to show it is and you actually only need the last bit of the ACN field to determine which which queue it goes in but in addition to that if an operator wants to they can put some more traffic this is example one inclusion into the l4 sq now you have to then call it an L Q not an L for rescue because you\u0027re putting non l4s traffic into it so it\u0027s a low latency Q and so you\u0027ve got mixed in with l4s traffic maybe stuff like Voigt DNS game sync updates things like that that a low latency but also not Q building not capacity seeking stuff right and so the idea is that you can freely use any form of classifier to do that maybe the latest you know look at the DNS if you want look at look at your layer seven protocol or or look at DSC ps4 EF for voice admit things like that to add to that and there\u0027s a later talk from Greg white on possible new diffserv code point called non cue building that pulls together all those things like game updates and things I just mentioned so you don\u0027t have to look around everywhere then the second example here instead of inclusion its exclusion it\u0027s saying well what if the operator wants to exclude stuff from that queue either or for some policy reason I\u0027ve given two examples here a security policy reason for instance you\u0027ve got a malicious host you don\u0027t you know sending stuff in there you want to want to kick it out or maybe a malicious protocol you know that a badly formed protocol that you want to kick out and commercial reasons maybe "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:46",
    "text": "maybe an early deployment certain operators might want to say well let\u0027s do this for all our traffic but other operators might want to say we\u0027re just going to do this for our business customers or our high tier customers or something like that so we\u0027ll exclude anyone that isn\u0027t in that category from their l4s queue even though it\u0027s got the right DCM code point and so the idea there is that if they do that it\u0027s a local thing only so the ecn code point goes through their network unchanged but they add another classifier that says okay you\u0027ve got the EZ \u0026 Co point but you\u0027re from a network that I I don\u0027t want you know your so from someone else\u0027s network I don\u0027t want to give you this service and so it kicks you off into the classic queue and then later if they want to make this undifferentiated service they can just remove that classifier and it will all start working and the ECM stuff will still be going through and it will be going through to everyone else\u0027s networks so it\u0027s a very important must in the draft to say you must not change the EC encode point in order to do that it go it survives your network but you add another classifier to knock it out of a queue so then the next category of classifiers and identifiers for those classifiers is when you\u0027re sitting within a diff serv queueing hierarchy and this is really there\u0027s a narrow green arrow on here saying this is mostly about what\u0027s going to be in a later talk but so I\u0027m just going to give a flavor flavor of it here so the previous example was about splitting the default diffserv class if you like into - assuming you only have the default hop behavior in your network before you split it but if you want to do some bandwidth prioritization in the example here maybe not just a voice service but a priority by a voice service where it survives even if everything else doesn\u0027t or something like that so you want you want to make it survive in bandwidth terms if there\u0027s overload or earthquakes or whatever you might want to have your diffserv priorities there and the dual queue as well and this is and then the l4s diffserv craft talks about all the ways you might structure those queues and how you would classify where your dual queue is part of a larger hierarchy like that David blacks from speaking on the floor as an individual Bob nice slide and in particular I believe this finally resolves a confusing discussion you and I have had about classification the diagram is excellent allows you to make to make the point that I\u0027m interested in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:47",
    "text": "which is that for incremental deployment I think it\u0027s important for an operator to be able to sort of go through their DSC P\u0027s and use and turn l4s on or off on a dscp by dscp basis that\u0027s roughly what\u0027s going on because I\u0027ve got I\u0027ve got two cues here priority voice and and priority uh via VR that have clearly been classified probably on dscp before we even got here and the stuff that didn\u0027t land on those two cues then goes through l4s I think there\u0027s more text we worked on here but I believe we have the structure of the solution here and we just have to make sure that this upstream classifier PHP is before before before dual queue is something that is at least strongly recommended if not requires I think it\u0027s essential for incremental increment deployment it allows an operator sort of gogo to go through her traffic and say okay we\u0027ll try this a hard work well I\u0027ll turn elf RS on Oh bit by bit over time as I as I obtain more confidence in it yep so I know but I also want to emphasize that all this you know theoretical discussion about Harold furrows might work with diffserv is theoretical discussion you know we\u0027re just making sure it will work we\u0027re not necessarily saying you\u0027ve got to do this or it\u0027s sensible to do it and the point of f-4s was really let\u0027s just make this separation between low latency and old stuff that causes high latency and that should be enough from for the public internet you know so this is all added complexity that we didn\u0027t design to to add it I don\u0027t think you need it but you could you know and certainly in corporate networks that do all this bandwidth stuff then they may well want to continue doing that and the other point to make is incremental deployment which is David\u0027s points a good one incremental deployment isn\u0027t the only way this might happen because once you\u0027ve got a once you\u0027ve got a way to do latency without bandwidth you might want to rearrange your classes rather than you know just subdivide them because a lot of those you know like if you\u0027ve got a voice class in your network well actually you could probably put it into the lq this example gives a example with priority voice but it but normally you could just like the previous example just put all your voice in in the lq and you get low latency I just need you to press return on since I\u0027m JavaScript and then Michael Abraham\u0027s a noun so you I own saying problem seems so whatever you had before as a CQ you keep that so if you\u0027re running if you cook if Q coddled before you now do that on the CQ and then you put that on top I this slide here again "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:51",
    "text": "like okay we\u0027re drugging incremental deployment if I came from something do I keep that as my CQ right theoretically yes you could do fq coddled in the CQ and couple it to the lq for instance we show two examples in the draft the dual q draft this is where you had pie in the CQ and then you can couple it to the elk you read in the CQ in comes vlq if he comes a bit more difficult because the coupling means you\u0027ve got a couple some congestion level to the to the elk you but you\u0027ve got many many congestion levels in all the different queues so you have to have some mechanism for working out what the average of them is okay right so i believe the the buffer bloat got a guys they\u0027ve managed to convince the Linux kernel I think in a lot of distributions to ship we have to coddle default did you have like a new recommendation on defaults or what they should use well at the moment I wouldn\u0027t recommend FQ coddles default for the dual queue couple just because we haven\u0027t been at you know implemented it so as a point as only default um implemented that the PI code we get but as good or better latency in the classic Q as FQ coddle anyway without having all the Q\u0027s so I\u0027d recommend that I\u0027m just because we\u0027ve implemented it and and in fact late a later slide in this set says we have now released that code well we had released it before but we\u0027ve really tarted it up and it\u0027s sort of a group now there was another question I had what\u0027s a state of the running code and get it like getting that included in Linux mainline and so on getting it included the status is that we haven\u0027t started tempting through that yet yeah but we have this is like a 2019 thing using core yeah 2019 would be a good yeah yeah I mean for sort of next March you know something like that yeah Mia Kulemin sir I would like to add to that discussion that I think that is actually kind of an alternative to FQ caudill because the goal of FD Caudill is to separate the small Q\u0027s to give them no latency while if you have l4s you don\u0027t need it anymore but I mean this is a different deployment story so but yeah yeah I mean and I think the overall theme here is chewing evil all the employment search near talk but I don\u0027t think anybody is is advocating that there is exactly one way to roll this out not know and and yet ultimately what you want to do is make sure whatever you roll out is no worse than what you\u0027ve already got and then see if we can move along to the rank issue just yeah a good I all the time okay okay I I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:54",
    "text": "guess I just will say one more thing that if you\u0027ve got n system congestion controls that are going to give you low latency which is the whole point of l4s then the the real aim of all this is to be able to have low latency in your high bandwidth applications for the future not just low latency for the for the sparse applications now that\u0027s and that\u0027s the extra thing you get aside from that Google right next so moving on to exactly what David wanted to hear this is a copy of the site for the last time we added a fifth requirement there\u0027s requirements in this draft for what senders must do and we added the fifth one saying that the sender must count in units of time when it\u0027s considering lost detection not in units of packets which is like Rach sorry handing in units of time is like radical whereas in units of packets it\u0027s like the three three do back rule and that was to give link technologies that support l4s the ability to remove head-of-line blocking delay all right now I realized in discussion with David who\u0027s coming up to the mic that I\u0027m not gonna explain all this again because I did this last time but I realized that this this point doesn\u0027t just apply to RAC I think what Davis quit what was behind David\u0027s question from what I understand it now is it\u0027s more general so I think the more general question is could l4s get stuck on DC tcp and david\u0027s concern was DC TCP can\u0027t he hasn\u0027t got a rack in it if we make it a requirement that you must have rack then we\u0027re claiming that you can do early trials and tests with DC TCP which exists now but then can you get stuck on that particularly in the sort of environment that uses a lot of DC TCP already like a cloud datacenter or something like that where you\u0027ve got a lot of n systems that aren\u0027t under the operators control so they can\u0027t say okay now I\u0027ve got a new interest in congestion control get rid of all your DC TCP because it won\u0027t go away as always Windows machines all these Linux machines that people stick in there whatever at least they want and so david\u0027s concern was we could end up getting stuck in the trial state with this thing that doesn\u0027t comply with the requirements and so how do we get out of that state if we start doing trials we think that don\u0027t don\u0027t comply with the requirements how do we move to a production environment they do you want to clarify if that is the real question actually that a consequence what I think the real question is I can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:55",
    "text": "let you go up your choice you since since you\u0027re up there in the victim position your choice is to whether you like like with rest is slide or whether we like like to start discussion here and let and let the audience reach are we\u0027d the sliding screen well I\u0027ll carry on with the question because I think it\u0027s a fairly question even if it wasn\u0027t your question or wasn\u0027t exactly your question and and so the the possible answers to that are either you can just move gradually and you don\u0027t get all the advantages well you\u0027ve got all these these rtcp things still using that q but they\u0027re going to move out gradually and then it all becomes sweetness and light and apple pie just like the internet generally happens or you can do active things as a network operator like adding policing /q protection to get rid of things that some of the aspects with easy tcp like requirement number four which it doesn\u0027t actually scale to very low round-trip times it or when it does it becomes unresponsive because of the 2c2 SMSs minimum window and so it causes pushes up the queue delay and things like that so you could you could deploy queue protection for that sort of thing you you could deploy polices etc etc but the the main point is that you start start running out of general answers you have to go in to get into each specific requirement and the first three requirements are all about essentially ttp friendliness with old tcp and it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s all to do an RTT bias and things like that and so I really don\u0027t think you need to worry about that if if that\u0027s a problem it\u0027s been a problem for ever and the idea of putting in these requirements is to make it better from the start but if it doesn\u0027t get better right from the start it will get better fairly soon I don\u0027t think I wouldn\u0027t really recommend putting in right polices and things to enforce rate fairness and all the rest of it but you know that\u0027s up to the network operator number four I\u0027ve just mentioned is is more problematic because it\u0027s it\u0027s what I call latency fairness if you like if you\u0027ve got a service that offers low latency and then you\u0027ve got some congestion controls that that don\u0027t comply with that requirement then we\u0027ve been developing a queue protection mechanism which kicks out flows that are the ones that cause the queue to go up and probably be talking about that at the next ITF so not got any material on it yet not fully finished testing it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:56",
    "text": "either so that\u0027s one possibility another one is with with the final point which is what Prime David in the first place if we set the requirement to detect loss in units of time what that means is it if you\u0027ve got congestion controls on the network that are not doing that the reason for having that requirement in there was then it gives more flexibility for the network to be able to turn off resequencing which is trying to keep things in order in the network just because TCP is so sensitive to ordering and so we wanted to start from if you like a clean slate where we said well that\u0027s a good requirement to get rid of sorry a good Avia to get rid of is this 3do back rule and let\u0027s move to a time-based rule which is what I explained this in ttpm and at the workshop that they\u0027ve been mentioned on Saturday but if you have congesting controls that don\u0027t do that on your network what it will mean is that if you do start allowing more reordering in the network those congestion controls will start doing more to spurious retransmissions all right and so in a sense you\u0027ve got a mechanism for kicking them off gradually by gradually opening up that space and allowing them to hurt themselves until they upgrade okay so this is david from floor again and i want to try to take this up a level because i believe we let say the middle name the IETF engineering and I believe we are looking at an engineering trade-off across levels in the stack and I think Bob\u0027s actually done a nice job of summarizing isn\u0027t very bottom the slide I\u0027ll observe that this slide and all of the details on it are consequence of making engineering decision one way and I\u0027d like to focus of engineering decision in essence the trade-off is roughly as follows that if you don\u0027t impose the rack like requirement detect loss in in units of time we have existing code we can use it\u0027s DC TCP it works with this now it will it will continue to work at the cost of spending the engineering resources on on the links to do the resequencing and the buffer required the reverse engineering trade-off which is the one that leads to the whole discussion on on on this slide is to say that the cost of resequencing in the links is getting out of hand and and the benefits of removing link resequencing is worth all of the cost and complexity "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:58",
    "text": "on this slide and Beyond including starting out with no running code that can use l4s as specified I don\u0027t know what the right answer is but I do think we need to have more discussion about that engineering trade-off as opposed to coming in and asserting that it is mandatory that we at in transport enable the link designers to turn off resequencing I think we have enjoyed discussion across those two communities of interest um yeah okay I nearly agree that I don\u0027t think we I don\u0027t think we need to not put this requirement in what we\u0027re talking about is whether we\u0027re a bit lacks about enforcing the requirement and given the ITF doesn\u0027t enforce its requirements anyway you know I think we should put the requirement in we haven\u0027t actually discussed whether that requirement should be in on the point of TS vwg and we certainly haven\u0027t talked about that in int and ops and other areas because this is a change to this the dead center tcp which he always says a transport thing but it would affect anything that else will goes into that queue and your previous slide showed other trust transports putting things in that queue such as video and other weirder stuff that I don\u0027t understand Syd look come from transport but he\u0027s an app stuff and these people all be impacted by this decision yes yeah that\u0027s true so okay so let\u0027s try and explain this impact um let\u0027s try to make sure people understand that understand the decision facing us and consequence that don\u0027t believe we can make I don\u0027t believe the speaking is visual I don\u0027t believe we can make it here and now and I prefer that we have and we have an understanding of decision of decision and consequences can I can I try on it help our understanding the there is no requirement on the network to turn off resequencing press start that what we\u0027re aiming to do here is put a requirement on end systems to be more live if you like about their um their their the way they deem that there\u0027s been a drop in other words rack shows the example of how to do that then a and and and actually I didn\u0027t point out the important two words on that bottom line in magenta there are two scale so then as network scale they can scale by doing more link bonding you know not not worrying about getting things back in order before they leave the network but it this is like a transition point now whether they\u0027ve obviously got the speed that they\u0027ve got at the moment that can lick and cope with that and and we\u0027ve got a certain balance point between the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:59",
    "text": "way real ring is perceived in n systems and the world and how much is allowed in the network what we\u0027re saying here is well let\u0027s just move some of the complexity into the end systems at this point in history if you like as we\u0027re starting a new queue and then as networks scale then they can take up some of the the liberal nough stat the end systems are giving them so they can they can make cheaper faster networks an assertion that end system modification is easier than X has and has a remarkable history of being wrong for surprisingly large sizes of X I\u0027m not making that assertion based on just the general ancestors are always easy I\u0027m making on the assertion that the way rack works isn\u0027t complicated you know is it\u0027s I don\u0027t care there are there are systems running out there that are better part of a decade old and they get patched at risk of the of the operators life or or at least career I said I I think this is an engineering trade-off I understand that you firmly believe that enabling links to scale without resequencing buffers is the overriding priority I will echo Gauri\u0027s remark like don\u0027t think you\u0027ve you\u0027ve yet convinced TS vwg of and we need to have a discussion about Guinea consensus that as opposed to assertions that it of that that it\u0027s true and the cod liver oil won\u0027t taste all that bad okay so I guess we I guess the main place where you think those discussions ought to be isn\u0027t so much in the linked people\u0027s areas it\u0027s in the RM cats and T CPMs because that\u0027s where the pain is going to be more but yes yeah okay so what we need a way out of this yeah you understand what the chairs are saying I don\u0027t know how to engineer it if you\u0027ve got a suggestion of how to get that process going that\u0027s okay otherwise we can sit together and we can make one because I\u0027m not against this I can see the rationale but I just want to know that the idea believes it until it pops up to the iesg and then it comes down right down again that\u0027s a nice little gift back saying oh by the way guys we don\u0027t know what you\u0027re saying here okay well I have arranged to talk about this in ccpm we\u0027ve got 20 minutes on this in ttpm yeah that helps which will help I haven\u0027t arranged in our MCAT I can\u0027t think of anywhere else okay we will work offline with you to try and do this and all the people in the room review are interested in this please pipe up on the list and talk to Bob talk to us what we need to get an answer on this one okay and we move along pretty quickly I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:59",
    "text": "we\u0027re the times for the optional presentations negative at this point okay because that was just the first draft I\u0027ll run through this quickly because this is there\u0027s not serious issues here it\u0027s just telling you what\u0027s happened really the the dual Q draft Greg did a very useful review and pointed out that the normative requirements go in there we try to be minimalist and they were a bit too minimalist because if you just follow the normative requirements you wouldn\u0027t have anything there wasn\u0027t enough in there you know so we they were really only normative requirements about the controversial things not about the basic stuff so we added the the basic stuff like you must have two queues energy or queue you know sort of and and you must apply easy and marking and yeah and in the relation between the square relation between the two queues Greg retinue I don\u0027t know whether this wording satisfies Greg now I asked him that but he it didn\u0027t seem to be enough the way we\u0027d written it before to link back to one of the equations you know just said the power must be to sort of thing which which I think this is a stronger statement of it\u0027s got to be lower there no lower than etc etc and the the final one there say that the parameter and this is actually one of the management requirements for the target queuing delay in each queue must be expressed in units of time again you know so it\u0027s the same thing as pi and coddle and everything does now pull that one out as well that one Greg didn\u0027t suggest but I noticed that one yep okay and if anyone\u0027s wondering what the little stars and footnotes are they must be two queues I\u0027ve added the thing to as a get out cause he can have more than two you know and the in the process of doing this had to rework all the equations in order to be able to refer to that equation as a normative requirement because realized that while greg pointed out that they were they weren\u0027t actually rigorously correct it was because we were equating instantaneous things with with values that only applied on the average and and so we worked all that to make it more rigorous right I mentioned the management quality adding details as three most interesting words in the world the main thing is 4q delay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "measurement what we\u0027re suggesting is that an implementation should allow mean and 99th percentile cue delayed to be derived now 99th percentile is quite a difficult thing to do particularly on cheap equipment or whatever so we have suggested a course histogram method for doing that and the idea of saying this is because we want as experiments proceed and also you know existing experience with F cuoco or with everything else so I\u0027ve got something to compare now I did notice that in all the aqm graphs there are no management requirements and I did notice from west that we are going to need to get some more experience of how to manage these things before we take the next slot to the iesg because I wasn\u0027t so maybe aqm chairs yeah I must admit I was surprised that didn\u0027t get picked up by the iesg bit and I think they will know yeah because I noticed when the RC 83 11 which enabled all these experiments that David did one of the IAS G comments was you\u0027ll need to ensure that all the components of this have experimental management and operational requirements in them and so I\u0027ve made well actually I\u0027d already made sure and then I went and checked the checklist in RSC photo no.6 and I\u0027ve already done it all so that\u0027s good keep going that\u0027s a good thing to do so then the pseudocode we came near the end with general we had a step a aqm in the l4 SQ just like DC tcp has a simple step for to turn on you know start easy and marking above a threshold when generalized that to a ramp because we want we believe that we we want to enable experiments with faster convergence when we move the tcp you know the thing we\u0027re calling t to be proud new things beyond DC tcp and we think a ramp or allow walk faster convergence and the other thing is Tom Henderson picked up on there was an assumption that we were using shared buffers and because that\u0027s how we\u0027ve implemented in Linux partly because you\u0027ve got a very small queue generally in the in the lq so you didn\u0027t really want to allocate a lot of memory to that just in case given you had spare memory across the two but he pointed out that with large sea bass classic bursts from slow start you can get tail drop which then hits the other one if you\u0027re using a shared buffer so the the the less memory efficient but more isolating way to there it\u0027s use dedicated buffers right now no but I think we should take the status updates or while I ask a few questions rather than talk through them okay and these are in the slide deck and could I ask "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:01",
    "text": "who ret who has read the latest jewel queue I know it\u0027s pushing it and has anybody read the latest jewel Kouta you\u0027d be pushing it cuz I posted it this morning if there\u0027s a follow-on who plans to read the Geo q draft that Bob issued one two three four five six seven eight and at least take people in the room that\u0027s good that\u0027s it and we need some reviewers for these documents and they are nearing ready they will never be ready unless people commit to review them and we saw the benefit of Greg white going through with a fine-tooth comb and the other documents are no maturing as well and does anybody wish to volunteer as a reviewer not good we have a resort to military star recruiting we have if you\u0027re interested in the work think about that contemplate because and we will need review from various people on each of these documents before we take them further so those that we\u0027re gonna read it is there any chance you could review it that was obvious and required if we\u0027re going to progress okay I I have one set of volunteers to read all three and review them so for outside the room right there yep I did just want to say the code I will post a link to where it is excellent good use of the list Magnus that\u0027s light yes this is useful to do because it comes up in quick soon so we should be looking at this one we have about 25 minutes of time left and not only 35 minutes of materials so gravity is a virtue okay yeah so my name is mr. Erickson um yes so I asked represents the people working on on the ECM portal quick so but give you update here did I do the wrong way yes so yeah so anyway this is just this slide is just to recap and it shows also the one of the changes to the ECM format but it\u0027s this is the AK format very Zn now it\u0027s an easy on section which is it\u0027s not any more different named frame types it\u0027s using the lowest frame type bits to separate between without or with the eastern section and the still the counters so so Magnus is this targeting the first release of yes it is and it\u0027s we seen some implementations already in its the past it\u0027s at least part of it so it\u0027s good so what\u0027s really happened has "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:03",
    "text": "been that yeah a key CN was replaced by just ECM section in back frame and move to the end of frame so it\u0027s a little bit changed on the format but that\u0027s it\u0027s the same information your structure is slightly different we also clarify that if you because of quicking have a different packet sequence number depending on the protection levels each such packet sequence number space has its own set of counters which is important that so you can actually test on the initial handshakes etc quick calls our Qualis which means put the multiple quick packets potentially at different protection levels in the same IP UDP packet and clarify that yes you need to count each of these different quick packets will up the counters in their respect representative sequence number space so and there is some restructuring effects so please its it I think is a very good shape but you please go review this if you\u0027re interested vision what also spent a lot of time including quite a some time in thinking that the inter meeting for quick in New York in September was this about more explicit information around the insane bits so should we actually get the seein markings for each individual packets a conclusion was for we want not change this is one one aspect this is actually you get quite a lot of overhead when you need to fridge see mark indicate the changes etc and as the bdp goes up and especially in the context of l4s where you will have frequent changes so this is gonna be a challenge going forward if you could do l4s combined with easy and explicit marking that\u0027s also some discussion about which transitions is cetera was relevant self so this is possible this happen in the future quick question so it\u0027s it\u0027s something to think about media I should probably know the answer to that question but you will tell me are the counters in packets are in bytes no brackets okay because in accurate ec n we actually have byte packets and that would also address a problem with coolest packets right yes this is so but at the same time I don\u0027t think there\u0027s it\u0027s gonna be that significant difference for you SSN you\u0027re gonna have a running average so to say yes I mean this is the the trade-off we made for accuracy basically instead of reporting on every packet separately and having a pack and we\u0027re at least reporting on the bytes which gives you slightly more occurs for future congestion Wall Street schemes and especially if if you have different size package which can easily be the case for quick it might make sense yes but at the same time it\u0027s it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:05",
    "text": "it\u0027s up I mean going to buy it say you you have to think about how you report and it\u0027s up quite a lot of the country spaces there\u0027s there\u0027s trade-offs here but and I think for and this is actually why we want to go forward discussion for v2 maybe to do other ways that reporting this etc but for b1 I think this is it\u0027s the simplest etc and it gives you reasonable especially for the congestion controllers that I mean like we had all this discussions about Eckerd easy and here as well and we didn\u0027t need it convert or like we did convert you know but it took a long time yeah but I think like one thought I didn\u0027t bring up early on quick was I think would actually be nice given we are so close to actually do the same thing and quick than inaccurate easy and which would be bite counters then a congestion control scheme can easily you know be implemented one of the two protocols so my question to that would be is that something that is critical to get in quick v1 and asked for on the penalty that it might mean that no cord is incorporated in commit v1 or is that something that could be incorporated as the refinement in quick v2 so I think it\u0027s a it could be later but it might not have them later right and it\u0027s an it\u0027s a it\u0027s a small change and I\u0027m sure one wants to say something as well that\u0027s why I\u0027m at the mic hi Bob Brisco the one of the reasons we put buy counters in their crazy n was to allow for the fact that over the years TCP has evolved to protect itself against all the attacks that are used by splitting acts and things or are used could be used in that I don\u0027t know how much these attacks are real attacks but we wanted to make sure that we\u0027ve learned from that experience and and I\u0027m not saying that those attacks are possible in quick because I haven\u0027t even thought about it but just as a high-level thought you know it when you when you do your feedback in packets that allows that splitting and and all the other attacks that baby weather all and so on came up with but that\u0027s not possible in in quick because the sequence numbers or if you retransmitting in a data frame you\u0027re still in you in new packets you all would still account to it correctly so yeah and and then there were there\u0027s other things like for instance something I\u0027m going to be talking about in t2 p.m. this afternoon later this afternoon is the ability to be able to alter your response depending on the size like if you\u0027re if you\u0027ve got a knack with ACN on it you don\u0027t do a full congestion window reduction compared to a full day to packet and things like that you know so so it\u0027s most of the things I think that\u0027s use one but and we need to make a trade-off in quick as to what we can get in the first version and then what we can get expertise in later yeah carry on Magnussen yes so really this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:05",
    "text": "and I have two basic questions lots more but related to what we discussed already but it\u0027s this is what I think from my perspective is that these are not really open issues there are solutions in quick v1 which do make them work but and the base avoids those issues but they might arise in the future because people want to do other things which changes in sir so one was quick as this delayed acknowledgement mechanism so at the vault 25 milliseconds you can wait for before you send an ack and it\u0027s spec is gonna say a query to protect gets reinstall but in C\u0026C sesame detected knowledge mint which gives you rapid response to congestion events which is fine for classical ezn but for l4 s or any kind of that it\u0027s it\u0027s less good especially if you\u0027re like okay you could probably wait a quarter of an RTT or even a turn or the tea before you send an axe to reduce the ACK frequency especially as that\u0027s the AK processing is probably one thing which burns quite a lot of CPU is cetera for the protocol and it\u0027s probably so and then spin that it you can get it to work but at least with other congested controllers like PBR etc so that has spacing in the sending so yeah this topic is coming back yes as quick goes into v2 and evolves etc people and I under do want and there have been discussion about happily having senders side controlled what the receiver does for a king etc so that\u0027s probably gonna be discussed later in quick etc and and then we come into this question about easy and also an L for us and how we under listen it\u0027s one thing and the other one is actually okay sorry and I should know and so what we say an accurate easy and it\u0027s actually that when the when it changes like if you receive an on see eMac packet and then you receive his eMac packet you should send an immediate egg but if you receive like a whole bunch of sea eMac packet in a row you don\u0027t have to send an immediate egg for everything only if it change it if the marking changes again okay I think that\u0027s the right thing to do here as well probably maybe in those cases where you might see falsely flipping see marks but yeah so and also this utility of this more detail see information but what\u0027s happening on the different packets etc yes pipe counting one possibility do it that way all right how many encounters but also it\u0027s the question of how how you\u0027d want to congesting controls etcetera what you need so it\u0027s time to think about it and it\u0027s gonna affect this and how possible to do it so yeah there was everything for me any more questions Thanks and please continue to think about how quick should use easy an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:06",
    "text": "that\u0027s a good topic for doing in this working group and we can pass it on and coordinate with the quick people as they continue to evolve this okay oh I just want to say that this cannot happen at the usual speed of TS vwg right so if you want to do something here you need to do it now or in your shut up seriously because you know we\u0027re shipping this thing what is this is this v1 or the whole of quick so yeah I was trying to get to be ones going last s so decide now if you need to speak on it yeah okay we\u0027ve got about 15 minutes what I proposed you to do the agenda is give Greg 10 minutes on this draft Bob skip Alvarez diffserv since we got the major issue on that one resolved and give easier the last five minutes so that we can check we can check that draft off right thanks folks um so I submitted this draft shortly before the deadline I think minutes before the deadline and it was intended as a kind of problem statement Bob give some hints as to what the subject of this is but essentially or the ways you to identify flows traffic flows that can share the lq in an l4 s system with the the offer SCTV so a couple inspirations the first one coming from the fq coral context so a few caudal has this functionality where it identifies automatically sparse flows and gives them a strict priority over the book both PCB both traffic flows does it an application neutral way it\u0027s not looking at protocol construct is just looking at the packet arrival behavior i\u0027m israel way that we can get a similar benefit in non fq systems and devices that maybe can\u0027t support or don\u0027t want to support the fq construct and then the second perspective is in from the l4s context we\u0027ve got these two cues you\u0027ve got one that provides great latency performance for this new version of TCP or DC TCP and and future versions what other kinds of traffic can you include in that queue as well so some high-level goals we later provide liable and this caterer talking about have statistically fairly reliable 99 is our nine percentiles kind of our American using low latency and low loss both for these bars graphic flows of giving the same kinds of performance characteristics that the l4 s DC TCP traffic can get through that lq also "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:07",
    "text": "allow capacity seeking applications to compete for bandwidth so again it as a differentiator between the VAR s approach and the fq carl approach where congestion controllers are sharing a queue and then allows for innovations around the way they see capacity and share bandwidth and then supporting out for us for this long okay so this terminology of just using terms queue building and non queue building to refer to application flows that can fit well in the in the two queues in the l4s system the queue building flows are definitely the capacity seeking flows are using a traditional congestion controller well that\u0027s we know or cubic or even b dr as well as highly bursty flows that maybe aren\u0027t using a congestion controller but are sending large large messages that you lots of back-to-back packets that would exceed the link capacity and cause the queue to build up in the network and then non cube link flows are all the flows that don\u0027t do that right that they\u0027re typically relatively low data rate I\u0027m not capacity seeking they may be late lazy sensitive like a lot of them maybe are but that\u0027s not necessarily a criteria here and the idea is that they\u0027re highly unlikely to be sending large bursts of traffic that\u0027s going to build up a queue in the network but they might send short bursts so along the lines with you do for us approach we\u0027ve got these two queues effectively and you know the work works well for queue building close you\u0027ve got the classic you got a deep buffer and we using some kind of a classical aqm pie or coddle and then a shallow queue for these donkey Pony clothes next slide so the question is how do you identify them how do you know what\u0027s a non queue building flow versus two building so the draft talks about a couple of ways to go about doing that one is allowing the application or the operating system to mark packets and the view there is that an application or the operating system has a pretty good I guess concept of whether what the application behavior is and so could mark the traffic accordingly and then introduce this this possibility of defining a standardized code point to indicate that it was non cue building behavior you\u0027ll approach the draft talks about is by having the the the link monitor of the arrival pattern of packets similar in to the way the way the fq coddle does conceptually similar to that and we\u0027ll of some kind of a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:09",
    "text": "metric in terms of how queue building a certain flow of packets is and then the draft has looked about kind of bringing those two together kind of trust a verify approach where you have this marking mechanism that an application endpoint can use to say this is an non key building flow and then you you validate that in in the network element so first of all you know stable is that endpoint marking and I guess the the view here is that it really isn\u0027t an incentive to lie that the cue building flows that that are going to send you a burst of traffic they\u0027ll do better in the in the C Q or the Q building q the ones that are non Q building will do better in the non key building q so it\u0027s not really a reason to miss more traffic but sometimes bad things happen things get miss mark also may not be totally concrete\u0027s how an application can characterize itself it\u0027s kind of in gray area between cube building and non key building so introduce this Q protection function basically looking into traffic arrival patterns for packets that are marked non Q billing and redirect them to the Q building to you if they start to cause queuing delay I think you think you have to do that Bob mentioned RFC fifty seven oh six one of the things that you will find in there is that which can be configured can be misconfigured the I think you need the protection I don\u0027t believe the incentive system is going to result in an ability to rely on the marks the incentives are indirect and they rely on people configuring applications correctly that which can be configured can be misconfigured yeah sorry that which can be configured will be misconfigured I\u0027m thirty first as being the RSVP to keep in the moment and some people just don\u0027t know the flow they don\u0027t know what it is yes so definitely maybe some value in in this Lobby reply no it may be mandatory yes so got some feedback on the mailing list already on this one was it wasn\u0027t super clear in the graph what the problem statement requirements were so I\u0027ll update that and then sorry for the little storm he comes here I will observe that the idea of running the the inbound half of fq coddled to understand a flow behavior seemed to be merged from that fight so it was it wasn\u0027t all for naught that\u0027s it so um okay does anybody have any questions thank you for writing the draft hi Martin Duke f5 interesting idea why "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:15",
    "text": "is it that so as a cute build so if I understand correctly a typical like bio TCP file downloaded BQ building flow if it\u0027s using a traditional no congestion controller right right yeah yeah I wouldn\u0027t take it as a given that the incentives lie with me staying in the qubit it killed I mean you know we know Buffalo is a big problem at first glance I would think that the the small Q would be advantageous to me something I just to hammer a little bit or at the point of incentives and that you have to verify I I\u0027m not sure that\u0027s accurate I mean in a way just having small cues in the network would be a good thing it\u0027s just a broad architectural point so to have it so - like yeah legislate the system where we have a shower Q and a DQ and I just all have shower cues I guess yeah if you like lots of drops when you send your best and you can use an Excel akin but so this could be different behaviour we shouldn\u0027t rathole on this we should talk about you\u0027re on the list because this is a great topic to go through the list last last year in Asia and this is this is the topic that we move we move here from Wednesday hello this is eacho speaking so I\u0027m going to talk a little bit about this new work for this overlaid pass segment for the next page please yeah so here the motivation for this so quite a lot of researchers and even some departments already trying to you to leverage the cloud router nodes in various clouds to build a better path in order to provide the performance chrome or closer to the leased line so we also ran some preliminary experiments that shows 71% percent our chances that we can find out better over the palace compared with the default one so now it\u0027s becoming more and more practical thanks to the technologists of the NV in the various instances that provided by the cloud providers next page please so we want to take the opportunities of this overlay passed over when and to do loops which is localized optimization on path segments to achieve better reliability in this report so basically the picture shows under the end-to-end pass naturally the path already being broken into multiple overlaid path segments so there are segments running between two overlaying nodes so there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:17",
    "text": "are some some problems and opportunities that we\u0027re trying to overcome like florrick loss recovery over the long haul and the sending rate decrease and the sender might be I mean the the Inc accuracy in this and you read a incinerated decrease and also with this overlaid path and normally the version of a limited capacity and in case of the impairment of the virtual hub we need to handle the detour or reroute next page so we figure out some of the key elements of a solution there basically includes the local recovery which means the recover between two over a node in the second one is a congestion control interaction we certainly want to avoid the retransmission competing between the end-to-end layer in the local recovery so there are some ideas regarding this and the third one is the traffic splitting and recombining to solve the capacity issues and also even if we want to do the FEC the fact over multiple path segments next page please so we are trying to have this side meeting to steer the work the loops discussion will be tomorrow evening 6:30 p.m. in sevens floor meeting five so the purpose is to discuss the user case and the problem possibly some potential solution ideas and what should and could be done in ITF here are two related drafts so everyone\u0027s welcome and if you are interested please talk to me or custom who is the organizer he\u0027s not here yeah so thanks so thank you for the talk and I\u0027m sure many people recognize things on that list of things that were desirable and we will have opinions from the transport area on these topics so please go and to the side meeting please talk to the presenters please use this list to talk about this draft and I think we\u0027re over for today are we David thank you ever so much for attending please come to the next session "
  }
]