[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "foreign okay so I have my mic open so okay I don't could be my phone it's rather close to the to the mic okay thanks foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:51",
    "text": "we are waiting a bit more to get to the usual number of attendees that we see uh we are right now at 10 attendees and hopefully that will increase soon and we will get started soon thank you foreign foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:05:28",
    "text": "foreign and it seems we have lost lost one uh one Warrior along the way uh we are at nine attendees right now uh quite a few of your usual attendees are not sure not shown up yet I've got the mail from Yee saying that he"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "same time okay you broke up but I heard that he's going to join when he can look mm-hmm okay we can wait a little bit more or get started I think uh but I think we shouldn't get going it's yeah okay all right so welcome uh to mpls network action interim meeting uh part of the series of uh open calls that we're having every week um this is uh a collaborative work between three working groups mpls files and debtnet um we are presenting the note 12 because this is an official interim meeting and uh please get uh acquainted with this note it covers the rules and regulations of contributions to ietf do you some useful uh pointers there in case you needed them you can find them on this slide so right on to the discussion today we uh we have four items and the last usual item is an open item for anyone to add to the agenda so I will stop and please go through the agenda and let me know if you have any concern okay all right so we will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "go through the agenda to the first item which is reviewing the action items that we're tracking we have to open items action items that are still open the first one is to continue the investigation on the intersection of M A with existing mpls features last week we had a discussion on that net with Mna on that net with yeah with m a uh and that was given by Greg so uh um hopefully there will be similar investigation with other features that mpls supports it's an open item and you feel free if anyone has anything to update it no uh by the way the the slides that Greg has shared with us last week are uploaded on the action items uh Wiki and uh I don't know if I probably I'll leave it in the notes uh okay the best way is to put it on the North Texas Wiki so let me do that while I'm presenting um we are taking notes today for the minutes on this Wiki please consider helping out in taking the minutes you should have received a uh a text node in the chat okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "so the second action item that all right sorry two in the case yes yes yeah we I see two um two people in the queue and Lois at the top go ahead candle the question I don't know where who should actually answer it we did the presentation of that net and m a last week my question is should we do something similar for beer and do we have someone that is can present or every do we Ascend an invite to the peer shares I think this is a good question um yeah I I would like to see a similar presentation but uh I'm not sure if we have anyone on the call that you know or maybe like you said we can reach out Greg is behind me in the queue and probably he's going to answer that so why don't you go okay so let's move on to Stuart and then to Greg um anything else Lua no I'm okay I just want to have the question noted so we take care of it when we can uh uh okay let me open an action item for that Greg I think you should go before me because I think you're probably going to answer to the same point talk to the point um Tariq was just talking to um yes um actually I've done some work I've done work on um beer and uh if uh beer chairs would agree uh I would be glad to make a presentation on uh dear in mpls how it's uh encoded what's there and uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:03",
    "text": "what's expected um so uh time wise probably that would be after ITF meaning if that's okay I took that down thank you Greg so so so mine was just a uh a a an FYI um um question you said that the slides are archived are in the mpls wiki area um aren't they archived automatically as part of the um uh the fact that this is an interim meeting don't they go into a bundle associated with each interim meeting uh that's a good question Stuart I think the material that we upload uh is saved and that's my feeling I can double check that but the slides Greg at that time uh did not upload them so we'll have to see a way to upload them so the slides were presented during the session uh we'll have to see if we can upload them after the interim has passed [Music] sorry I interrupted someone yeah that makes sense Stuart thanks the lower your back yeah so two quests now first uploading slides if we can't do it ourselves we can always ask the secretary to do it for us so that we can solve that the second one on timing for a beer presentation yeah after uh iitf117 is okay for me and I think we can do it like that okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "okay all right and the next action item that we have uh and we're tracking is the updates that we need to do to m a working group graph documents and uh basically if there's you know there were multiple discussions uh about multiple isds in the packet and so on and we're [Music] um um there were things that uh that were not clearly spelled out in the requirements to a draft so there was an action item to for the authors to uh validate at least this is covered um so last week I did promise to send a summary of the discussion uh to the working group mailing list I have not yet um and I'm willing to do that this week or maybe towards the end of this week um if it is useful but if any of the authors have done any updates that let us know and I will note it down okay I'm not looking at the queue all the time but I don't okay I just looked and nobody uh has any updates Stuart you want to say something no no no I just put up put the microphone on so that I could tell you if someone was trying to get in the uh in the queue because it's hard for you to see it I think okay all right uh these are the action items that I am tracking and uh we possibly have a new one today for the beer presentation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "um so I'll move on to the next item on today's agenda um so I do have a slide coming up on a part of this set of slides and I need to switch to a different set of slides for Steward I'm okay to go through this do you mind if we continue um you know to item four and then go back to item three as you see fit as you see fit okay sorry yeah I I should have noted uh the shuffling before the meeting okay so this is one slide I composed I was discussing with uh with Loa and we have some open questions on M A and I want to make sure that at least we are all aware of them and not necessarily then answers but the questions are there so usually the if the flow of mpls packets a single flow will have the same uh you know packets will have the same label stack and lsrs will use that label stack some of them at least classically would use the label stack to Hash onto ecmps um with M A ISD it's possible that um a LS Army modified the mpls stack for different packets of the same flow so this will this can have impact on these classic routers if they continue to Hash on the full stack the first you know I had to open questions like I mentioned which of the following could be true m a header mandates getting entropy label as a network action and all mne capable lsrs must hash or process on the entropy label"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "as opposed on the full stack so that could be a true or false statement um I'm not I'm I'm open to pausing and seeking uh you know opinions and I can continue the whole slide and then you know people can can ask questions or sound opinions at the end so my feeling is let me continue and see what happens towards the end so the second statement is m a packet must only Traverse M A capable lsrs uh this way if the m a packet carries an entropy label then we can mandate that or then the the the flow of packets will will flow over the same ecmp um the other alternative is the third statement is m a packets carry the the usual the classic Alie El uh along with m a header um that was discussed in the past and that can have an implicational size of the label stack but it has an advantage that non-emini capable other stars can still hash on the entropy so with the first two statements only M A capable lsrs can do that and the last statement is is interesting is any mutable m a data should not reside in the ISD so these are four points there and then the the path selection uh when we're selecting a path for a m a packet we talked about the the Ingress or maybe whoever is setting up the path selecting a path of uh nodes that are M"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:04",
    "text": "A capable uh but is it desirable that we Traverse none of many capable lsrs as well for example to cover Brownfield deployments and the last statement is you know we know that even if we select the primary path to be all M A capable during transient Network conditions some M A packets may be detoured or rerouted uh and how do we ensure that after such transient conditions the the packets continue to be forwarded by m e capable lsrs foreign bullet three bullet one as it were no numbers on them right so I I I think it's unreasonable to suppose that this only goes into a pure new um new build and thus um you have to have a non-entropy processing packets in the system and you probably have to have none El capable routers in the um in the system which I think means that bullet 3 has to be of the form that all lsrs on the path use El for ecmp if that is what you want to do but I think three will be a problem for a lot of deployed the deployed base yeah but okay that that I understand and and the challenge is like you said"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "uh some lsrs don't support Eli today right okay only your next hi so my read of this is slightly different and so I'm going to say five none of the above um there the situation is way more complicated than you make it out to be and there are many variables which are orthogonal which you have not described very clearly so let me take a stab at doing this in a logical way um first of all the question is whether El is necessary whatsoever uh obviously if ecmp is not used on the path El is not required and so that becomes irrelevant assuming El is is required then the question becomes is El useful at every Hub it's very very likely that ecmp is not used at every hop if it is only used at uh hops that support M A then you can put El in the m a header and you're just fine if you're using ecmp at a non-mna capable mode then you should use traditional Eli um can I pause do any I know uh you're you're trying to rebuke um all the points but can we stop at one point because I need clarity please okay so you're saying that we're fine if we carry the entropy label in the m a action right that that that's it because we're not fine if the LSR is not M A capable at all"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "if you have an m a capable if all of the nodes that need El are M A capable then put El in the m a header right not everything the last point then which you know transient conditions might take you on a non-emini capable path are you are you sure that it's always going to be uh yeah okay I mean my understanding at least of mpls is that if you have a transient condition and your path is changing then your label stack is probably also changing can I answer that please okay it will change you know like the plr might and impose additional labels but that will be and for all packets of the same flow so it's so they will they will basically have all the same uh label stack s plr is going to add more labels then it has to make the same decision about whether it's going to add El or not right it the plr knows about the subsequent path El is chosen at the Ingress not blr [Music] okay well that if you do it the other way around that implies every packet needs El yes every m a packet needs that no every attack yeah that's exactly it I mean the classical way of of lsrs using the label stack is non-desirable but it's still there in the in deployments right well that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "sub-optimal in my view I I would not want El present if there is no ecmp on the primary path okay anything else Tony so now if you do use M A with El then there is a mutual portion of the label and we've in the ISD document we are pretty clear and it says that the mutable portion should not be in the first 20 bits so anybody who wants to Hash on m a even if they are not M A capable should not be disturbed by immutability outside of the label good morning okay that's interesting proposal there uh we'll have to see if that can be respected by all lsrs okay anything is this documented in the the the draft Tony okay I guess the Tony's muted now uh I think so however apparently it's not sufficiently clear so the editors might want to consider modifying the document to improve it that is a huge complete right okay I'm sorry I broke up you say again that is a huge sorry sorry great for going bad for people that is a huge constraint for Tony isn't it that means that you can't send more than 20 contiguous bits is uh Mna data is ISB"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:04",
    "text": "I understood fit right you can't have anything you you have an enormous amount of noise covering you Stuart and I think I heard you say that you can't send more than 20 bits um it's the question is what's mutable on the path and if you're sending trying to send lots of mutable data on path then you need multiple lse entries and you want to do that that's fine with me go right ahead okay Greg you're next thank you um so uh I have a question about uh number two uh because uh what's a what's the scenario is envisioned that M A is a top of the stack or M A is present in the stack yeah I can try to answer that so there are two cases indeed then the action is edge to edge and and then the uh the m e headers exposed at the edge uh you know the at the egress and there are hop-by-hop actions and in that case the m a header mean not the at the top so then the indicator will have to be you know understood by lsrs so I think I I meant both cases and and the discussion here um the hopper hop action is more relevant"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "well because uh as I understand what we're uh trying to convey is that uh when a edge is uh or some system uh constructs their label stack with m a uh so it's should should ensure that m a uh will be uh accessible only to capable M A capable lsrs so I think that would be different from their statement too because statement 2 says that uh any none [Music] M A capable osr must not be traversed by uh mpls packet with the stack that contains m a so right if else if osr is not M A capable but uh is not really M A is not at the top then uh I don't see why it it has to be so restrictive I see so I think yeah I need to clarify and you know if we have a hop by hop action and we're traversing multiple lsrs the expectation is each LSR will process them in a packet uh well again that is depends on the action because uh I would say for example um iam uh it's uh if it's supported in ISD then it's useful but it's not mandatory so uh we'll collect information from those nodes that are capable of supporting m a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "um I am but uh if not that does not affect anything else so uh again for then I think what you're hinting to is mutable data should not be in the stack and in this and basically we don't have a problem of uh uh uh the stack changing for uh pocket how many packets right I think that's what you're hinting to is uh we don't want to change the label stack uh on the phone well I I I think it's as Tony pointed out uh the real picture would probably would be much more complex is this uh statements so it's it's again at this time at this point I cannot really uh answer uh the questions yes or no uh the only thing that I would say it depends it depends okay all right the the point of triggering these questions is uh there is no clear answer so if this produces uh Clarity then the objective is reached and not after you know immediate answer for true or false but if there's some clarity somewhere it would be useful so Joel you're at the top of the queue go ahead okay I you you dealt a little bit with one of the important points we need to be very clear when we are talking about m a hop by hop actions and when we are talking about selective or end to end actions because the implications on intermediate processing nodes are different note if the selective is not just under the top label nobody else cares it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "doesn't matter if they don't plot process it with hop by hop if in the visible region you're expected to look at it we need to be clear and consistent about this to why I wrote so many words in my emails about pushing things it was a pain but you got we got to be clear about it um I consider that if we require that all nodes be upgrade in the network be upgrade I'm an AK sticky in ffrr well you know those pads have those packets have already taken a different path from the packets that didn't get rerouted and the fact that the label stack may be different because of that is probably not a fatal issue whereas packets that are expected to be taken the same path you start messing with the label stack at least a more nuanced question and in some of the comments people said well you should know whether the ecmp is being applied or whether all the nodes are M A capable unless we assume that all paths are strict which I sure hope we don't require then you can't know that because you will be going through routers that will be looking at their label table and making decisions and routing may change there and may send them through different routers and it does not seem to me to be a knowable"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "state to make dependency on knowing the properties of all the routers on the path you can know for Selective whether the things you are selecting can do M A and for things which you are addressing you can know whether they're they can do M A but we're not as I at least don't assume that we're doing strict paths because that seems excessive and this whole thing is an example of why a detailed write-ups are much more useful than one slide I get tired enough of Ericsson trying to answer to ask complicated questions in slides words are a big help thanks thank you Joel Stewart hear me again um so I'd like to suggest a a a an algorithm that would probably work and that's that if there is changeable data in the packet then if each node on the path is m a capable you can you do not need an Eli you could have ecmp information inside the m a portion otherwise in other words you are not sure that every hop that the packet will go through is m a capable you must include the El stroke Eli in order to ensure the path um I don't think it depends on whether this is end-to-end or hot by hot Joel I think it depends on whether you have changeable data not because nodes that do not understand M A will be trying to make their ecmp decision so uh yeah that's my that's how I would summarize it you have if you are not sure you put an Eli in there if you are sure you don't have to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "I yeah acknowledge okay Tony wow okay um let's see let's start with talking about MMA capability uh so I where I thought we left off um we had several cases we have to worry about uh there are Legacy nodes who may barf when they see the m a label at all um and if you have Legacy nodes like that then you cannot deploy M A on that path there's just no way to do it there may be Legacy nodes that see the m a label and ignore it and that's fine as long as you don't need M A actions to happen at that node that's not an issue obviously if you have such a node and you need that node to do ecmp Mna El will not work and you need traditional Eli um I'll leave it that thank you okay all right right cash hi so um and just one small point about using the label stack for the CMP um so if we are using Instax ancillary data uh we have repurposed TC and TTL Fields so there are bits there uh 3 plus 8 11 bits that can be muted um uh without impacting the acmp if there is a need to have something in ISD that changes without affecting EC thanks okay so so I think there's a lot of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "feedback coming in and some of it is clear some of it is needs more discussion I am just wondering if um if we need to elaborate in the documents or clarify further these points uh some of them we're saying that we need to take action on so maybe I can track this within uh yeah I would like to hear more feedback on that front Rakesh go ahead um yeah the documenting this what I mentioned is in the ISD solution draft already thanks yeah I meant you know at least addressing all the concerns on the slide I am not sure if your proposal covers everything for example some some lsrs would be hashing on the full label stack so how do you address that okay Tony that's the other point that if it has it on the full label stack uh you could use mutable data into repurposed tctr Fields without affecting ecmp I don't understand that there are labels like there are the 32 bits of LSC has 20 bits of labels and other ones are tctl so hashing happens on the 20 bits of the labels right so it doesn't use the ttltc fields for hashing so if you are changing bits for example um next faster route or alternate marking or what are the other purpose um it will not affect acmp this person okay no I imagine if you're carrying in timestamps for example you're not going to carry them in the intro in the 20 bits timestamps"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "11 bits available if you want to use in ISD in one lse so if you need to use more than that you need to use two lses in ISD but I'm just saying that there is some something available if there is a use case for it okay thank you there there can be nodes that are hashing on the full stack in which case you basically have no mutable data but I mean that's a local problem in any case to process the ISD document is now a working group document if people have clear clear objections or you know clarifications I strongly suggest that the way to address them is to propose additional text on the mailing list talking about these complicated questions with no preparation in this meeting has led to a great deal of confusion um it would be very very helpful to have a more considered discussion on the mailing list so that we can make progress foreign I still would like to see I mean I'm what you're saying is um maybe we should have a discussion on the mailing list and I I uh I would like uh that as well um and if we can close all the items I'm happy um no but I see you're still raising your hand so go ahead Tony and please tarek have people propose text okay be very specific This is complicated throwing out bullet points is confusing the issue because it's not sufficiently nuanced"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:05",
    "text": "here okay Stuart that's what I I agree with Tony on that last point and what I was going to propose is that you trigger a discussion on this on the list uh if that is as simple as just pre-publishing this slide as text to start off the discussion then that's certainly one way of doing it I think Tony would like to see more text associated with each point But I either way the right thing to do I think is to move this discussion to the list okay all right so I don't have anything else besides this slide and I will stop right here and uh share the others you move on to the next item on the agenda today uh uh let me see if I can find that quickly [Music] okay okay so the background to this is that we had a fairly extended discussion in a previous meeting where it was asserted yeah you want to go to the next slide please where it was asserted that once a packet has been fast rerouted uh past the failure and back onto the normal path the NFR flag was no longer needed and could be cleared and then and that it was safe after that for further NFR or further Factory reactions to take place if I misunderstood then uh please uh please correct now and I think I remember at the time arguing that uh the concept of a second failure uh attempting a second repair was contrary to the established fast reroute philosophy and that it's only safe to repair against the set of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "postulated failures that the frr action was calculated for and if any further failure was observed anywhere in the network we had to to use the Expression we we used in the development of it we had to abandon all hope ceased all fast reroute and reconversion the network using the standard best effort approach um so and I couldn't remember at the time um the exact an example um condition that for this so go to the next slide right so this is a fragment of a network um it's an old Network that was fragmented but it is just you know use the terminally the FR term is a network fragment so in this fragment to make life easier I'm going to have H which is a multi-home prefix if people want to rule multi-home prefixes out of scope I will simply use prefix a and I will have some routers that go between the H on the left and the H on the right and I know we almost certainly have more than one routers because we always use more than one router to prevent hidden exchanges between adjacent routers which can sometimes be used to sort of bypass complex um to work around strange events right so I have two a a prefix on the left and prefix same prefix on the right I have two plrs plr one and plr2 these are normal routers when they're not preparing um but I used one common term for them in in both of them um modes I'm going to assert that the cost from plr one to X is equal to the cost from plr2 to Z and that the paths have multiple nodes to prevent any sort of cheating and collusion and that all cast all costs are one except for the cost between plr one and x and plr2 and z Oh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "by the way and all path costs are symmetric because that's another way of introducing strangenesses to these systems all right so this is a really simple um Network equal cost between 1 and x equal cost between two and Z everything else is one next slide please right so um we're going to fail uh plr one to H and we're going to implement fast reroute if we're going to implement fast reroute we have to repair to Z if we were to repair to X the packet would come back to plr one so that wouldn't work if we were repaired to Y we would get ecmp so that doesn't work it could go left or right or at y so we're going to send it to Z um the package is now back on the normal path and according to the um the hypothesis that was discussed at the earlier meeting nfrr is cleared and in this particular scenario the packet will successfully proceed to H via plr2 we're operating as a normal router um and the links and nodes between it okay so that's easy next slide please all right so this is the exactly the same thing but the other way around right the failure was between plr2 and H and the packet not re-routed to X and proceeds on its happy path back via plr one to uh to H and that is all fine next slide please the next slide is obvious because I'm going to take a failure in uh um plr one to H and prr2 to H and quote the English children's nursery rhyme here we go around the mulberry bush the package is going to Loop until it dies of old age since uh neither plr know about the history of the packet before"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "nfrl was cleared and so it will Loop until TTL expires consuming the bandwidth next slide please so therefore nfrl must be sticky assuming we're going to use nfrr and assuming we're going to try and do multiple failure protection Tony so each is unreachable yeah but nobody knows that can you go back one please Tara nobody knows this at the time this is frr right yeah but each is unreachable so it doesn't really much matter yes it does because um some packet is going to enter this network somewhere it's going to try and get to wage because it doesn't know H is unreachable yet and so these packets are going to go bouncing around between the left and the right of the network until they die and that's not a good thing until signaling tears things down until we go to regular reconversions yes until we reconverge proper fully reconverge there will be nodes in this network that do not realize those failures have occurred and that packet will loop around consuming it's a ttls with a bandwidth foreign then um well we we must have had some method of telling everyone in the node in in the network that that's the case and um that's known as you know essentially abandon all hope regular reconvergence Tariq"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "um Stuart I think what you're highlighting is the uh NFR nffr flag is relevant beyond the merging Point here Z absolutely it is yes so we'd like to keep it sticky all the way you either have to keep it sticky um or you have to abandon all hope on a second failure regardless of where it is you see if uh um it kept it sticky what would have happened was plr one um would have sent its packet to zed from Zed it would have got to plr2 and it would have died then and meanwhile um some other packet could have easily been repaired um or some other um and regular productive forwarding could have continued um for re for ordinary packets until such time as we were gonna we could do a controlled reconvergence of the network um but you know unless you make it sticky you have to uh go to your emergency plan when you get a second uh a second failure now I think a sticky nfrr actually is an interesting concept within the sort of um concept of doing fast reread and we would have liked it some years ago but we couldn't see how to do it with the data plane technology that people were prepared to deploy that and it has all kinds of useful properties but um what has to happen is it has to be sticky or you will get this sort of meltdown I'm showing in this picture foreign no other questions do I need to get do we need to get this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "written down somewhere because clearly I'd forgotten it I couldn't find it in any frr documents and our others on this call I hadn't realized this scenario took place and this is an absolutely this is a frr 101 situation um we have lower do I have well the answer is kind of arguments we need to write it down somewhere the question is rather where is somewhere so where do we want to put it seems weird to me that the answer to lowest question is you need a draft that describes the nffr action and describes its trickiness and describes exactly how with m a one would Implement said stickiness including all the corner cases like you push an nffrr on a packet that doesn't currently have an Amna or any of all of those cases and write them down so we know what is required to do an nffr that is sticky and craft should include the explanation of why you would want to do so and then we can make decision as to is this a cost for willing to pay and this do you store it you raise an interesting case here and it's not your fault it's not in some other draft already I was thinking actually Joe that this was this actually transcended um uh m a um and was interesting in its own um in its own right because uh as you can clearly have forgotten uh um you know that you see that are introducing an NFR flag in some way in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "some packets which we've talked about in other cases um doesn't work entirely as well as people think it would I I think it's attractive so I think as a practical matter Stuart if we put it in this draft with the explanation people can still point to it just write the explanation so that it's General that way we don't have to get into trying to get some other draft through some non-existent working group well no the the working group is uh rtgwg of course that's where all the NFR technology all the frr technology is um is hosted but nobody finds things from there so I what I'm saying is we know we have the problem we know we need to document the problem so we can explain what we need going and writing some other draft in some other working group while possibly technically arguably correct doesn't give enough Advantage let's just write one here that proposes given this problem therefore given this goal don't reroute after failure there are these extra constraints documented in general not m a specific therefore for m a we need to do foop allows us to make progress on figuring out what we want to do so so all right so where are we with uh well I should let someone else go first but um where are we with having a draft I can submit some text to uh okay or should I just write an address I'm reluctant to write too many drafts at the moment uh because um there is there there okay there was one draft on nffr but it expired and uh we [Music] um um the original I think there were two"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "in fact one from uh as a primary author but that also expired and then the network action draft for nffr is also expired uh so we're trying to reach out at least me and Laura trying to reach out to the co-authors of the draft and to see what the plans are um depending on the answers we might need a new draft uh on this so this is what the information I have and thought would share it with you um my question is not I mean I raised my hand not to answer that but to ask another question um so my question is uh we thought we talked about the nffr um action as a hopper hop action and the scope is halfway hop and it's a Transit node that's uh turning on the action or yeah in this case it's turning on the action um we talked about two options one is adding a new sub stack or the other one was modifying the possibly modifying an existing sub stack that has a hopper hop uh scoped action um I'm not sure what was the conclusion which approach we want to take a new sub stack versus modifying the existing one and maybe that the draft will try to tackle if we have the answer or documented and yeah that's orthogonal to the to the existence of this problem though yeah I agree with how do we encode it that's uh yeah we need we need it to be sticky I totally understand just how do we create an m a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:03",
    "text": "okay thanks I'll lower my hand and okay Jimmy next yeah can you hear me now yes okay so I think uh Stuart raised a valid case uh in which the proof that the no for the FR need to be sticky and actually I think in there in this case maybe there's a can be a third very pass which is a usable but to steal the traffic will be Loop between these two this nose because that pass is not preferred comparing to the these two bars right so maybe that can also be considered in this case and I agree this to be documented as a generic analysis about the fr AME requirements and and whether how to encode this no photographer information in different data planes so maybe uh separated from this description of this case okay thank you yeah I just thought that there are of course many many other more complex scenarios that I could draw um with a triplet in here and it going round and round the uh the circle um or you know a a quadrant or a hexagon or whatever this was just the simplest one that I could just put on one slide and everyone could get their head around it and indeed everyone should get their head rounded as soon as I did the first slide but just the first failure Tony um you need to talk to karidi he's the only one who can help you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "well I I didn't understand that uh that was a bit of a sweeping statement I think you need a bit more context Tony is the person in charge of the NFL frr draft period end of statement okay thank you lower uh Tony I actually have a mail from curietti saying that he is not interested in writing that draft so curietti stepped down and we are on our own I I appreciate that but um credius also let it be known that no one else may work on NFL frr so you know well no no one else in no one else out inside Juniper may work on it perhaps but uh he doesn't have an embargo on the entire ietf working on the concept uh fair enough if you want to uh propose something go right ahead actually what Creator said in his mail was actually please find someone other to do the work so that's that was this was part of initiating that type of discussion as far as I know he has not released to this embargo and I realized he said that to you but he hasn't said that to anybody else that should be specific anyone else inside Juniper creature can only control what people inside your company do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:04",
    "text": "okay all right I think uh yeah either way I think we need the draft documenting this either coming from kiriti or someone else and I think it's an important topic to cover uh anything else do it no no no no no no no no no I just need to just need to know what I'm what action I'm going to I'm going to take yeah so I like I mentioned I tried to reach out um not having gotten back any feedback personally um Loa did try as well he has some feedback um if we have further feedback I mean we'll share it definitely let's do it but um and maybe by next week in the chairs meeting we should have a decision on either a new draft or the existing draft revived that's uh okay all right okay thank you so much for the presentation thanks okay and I think that was the last item we had I have a couple of action items that I took down from this meeting um and we will follow up on the meaning list so before we adjourn uh let me ask if any any other chair wants to add in any closing comments or had anything to say um no okay I think I'm gonna give you back the remaining time from today it was a very good discussion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "I hope there will be more clarity there on the points on the mailing list so keep an eye on the mailing list then uh see if we can get clarity there thank you"
  }
]
