[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:29",
    "text": "ah turn that on that helps test one two do you hear me remotely great all right okay let's see uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:05",
    "text": "Spencer how do you feel about taking nuts how do you feel about taking notes oh God no I I have I have a note from Sean Turner the notes that I did for him uh yesterday in which were maybe the worst I think I've ever done all right so apparently uh yes yeah Stefan I think is some of the notes like the last three apt Corps meetings so I think he has he's you know justifiably excused that's true there are people online um hello hello yes hello yes I can hear you are you all the drinks take notes no no no I've we're having technical difficulties here and we're just trying to figure out if we were being heard or not so thank you you're being hurt but if you speak up again you'll be the notetaker as the as he quickly mutes um let's see who do we see here Sergio's presenting let's uh David would you be interested in taking notes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "foreign foreign I'm gonna start randomly clicking on people in the participants list and telling them asking if they can take notes um okay Magnus Magnus says he will take notes thank you Magnus and but if other people want to also join the the Cody MD or whatever we're calling it now um what hedge dog Hedgehog you think he's captured everything that would also be great at which point I think since it is now 134 uh we can get started welcome to the avt work core working group either here in Philadelphia or wherever in the world you might happen to be uh am I oh um that's right we're not surviving the slides okay if you're here in person um please sign into the Medico usually the medical Lite if you're here in person um that both lets you join the queue and make sure you're recorded on the blue sheets and lets you participate if we do any polls all of which are good things um if you're here in person and you choose to join the full version keep your audio and video off because you can already see us the old-fashioned way and um please everybody's doing that go well now but please keep if you're here in the room"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "um please keep your masks on unless you're actively speaking at the front of the room um if you're remote keep your um don't send audio or video unless you are presenting during a session or asking a question and um using the headset is strongly recommended because sometimes the echo cancellation doesn't work right next um remote meeting tips you enter the queue with the no hand leave with hand because who knows why um you'll need to enable your audio when it's your turn to talk um similarly the unveiling icons um you can also enable video if you want but that's separate from audio if you just enable your video we will see you without hear you which for most purposes is not terribly useful um videos encouraged um but not not required next uh here are some links you can't click on them in here but you can go to the if you go to the data tracker you can find various information you can you can find the the slides and they should be clickable in there I think next no well um hopefully everybody has seen this by now since it's Thursday but if not um you are agreeing to uh but first of any ietf you're agreeing to follow the IDF procedures notably um you'll have to declare if you have IPR that's an open simplification please read the things um for more details um you can you acknowledge that we can have audio and video recordings of you and you agree to follow the code of conduct next especially please everybody keep things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "professional and uh you know avoid harassing anybody or the like and if you see anybody harassing contact the ombuds team or the chairs next and as I mentioned Mass policy we seem to be good now but please if when you're in uh the meeting rooms please wear a certified mask unless you're actively speaking at the front of the room next uh here's the about this meeting we have Magnus as a note taker as mentioned if other people want to join the Hedge Doc and back them up I'm sure he would appreciate it um I will keep an eye on the chat to the extent that I can on doing everything else um if you need something relayed if your audio isn't working for whatever reason in your remote please um type into the chat and we can repeat what you said into the room next we're going to ask Eve to say a few words about Steve Kastner Eve hey can you hear me yes we can okay great um thanks for the opportunity to say a few words about Steve casner a long time friend and colleague and mentor to many of us within the ITF Community these remarks are a slightly longer version of the tribute prepared for the plenary yesterday and they include a few additional photos and links to a few online readings writings and viewings for those of you who may not have had the pleasure of knowing Steve directly his vision and Leadership were instrumental to the success of ietf multimedia standards and protocols that have driven the success of ip-based telephony and multimedia conferencing as well as other real-time multicast and unicast applications he began that Journey at Occidental College he"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "graduated in 1973 with a degree in mathematics and then he obtained a master's in computer science from the University of Southern California in 1976. beginning in 1974 he joined USC's information Sciences Institute as a graduate student and remained there for 22 years he contributed to the software design and implementation of some of the earliest experiments with packet voice on the arpanet and thus he contributed to the publication of the network voice protocol RFC 741 published in 1977 a year before the TCP IP split and a year before UDP was defined as high bandwidth packet satellite and terrestrial networks became operational in the 1980s he led the multimedia conferencing project at isi to develop and deploy packet video over those Networks he built a custom packet-oriented video Codec and later developed techniques that allowed commercial video codecs designed for circuits to operate over packet switch networks it was at isi in 1988 hate to confess that that I first met Steve I date myself and but I had the privilege to work closely with him over six and a half years it is also where I was indoctrinated through him into the iitf community culture and working group process that same year in 1988 Steve is documented in the proceedings of the ietf 11 as having participated in his first ITF meeting in Annapolis Maryland and as many of you may recall his lovely wife of over 40 years Karen Kastner often attended ietf meetings with him at that time Steve attended to contribute to the working group focused on the experimental internet stream protocol version 2 that provided the technical underpinnings of the earliest isi BBN Pack video teleconferencing system St as it was known however was connection oriented not datagram like I like IP it included a small header using per hop identifiers and supported"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "point-to-point or multi to point to multi-point connections as well as providing Network bandwidth reservation what would later become RFC 1190 Steve would go on to found the audio video transfer working group avt fastest facets of which live on today in ABT core he served of its chair he served later as co-chair from 1991 until 2003. he authored 15 rfcs and most notably was an author and the principal editor of the real-time transport protocol RTP certification which has had a huge impact as you all know a multimedia data transmission in on and across the internet Steve regularly acknowledged that RTP is designed Drew significantly from the earlier Network voice protocol and its sister protocol the packet video protocol the designs of which were spearheaded by the late Danny Cohen who ran the networking division at isi beginning in 1992 Steve was the primary organizer of the movement to establish the worldwide internet multicast backbone affectionately referred to as the m-bone an experimental virtual Network overlaying the internet for broadcast of audio and video using multicast IP and rtp-based applications it was launched in case you didn't know this at the request of Allison mankin who was pregnant at the time and unable to travel to the upcoming ITF meetings the m-bone enabled live streaming of ITF meetings including return audio from remote participants and in many ways the Unbound tools were the precursor to our hybrid meet Echo meetings and the precursor to the multitude of video conferencing apps in our lives today the m-bone was carried the M bone also carried the first internet radio broadcasts it provided audio chat rooms for Network Geeks streamed NASA TV of the first Hubble repair broadcasted a Rolling Stones concert resulting in a Newsweek article boldly displaying Steve castner Van Jacobson and Steve Dearing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "as our modern day superheroes and demonstrated the first distributed music performance with distributed performers at the ACM multimedia 94 conference in 1995 Steve took his expertise into the commercial Arena to further develop conferencing and streaming apps at precept software later acquired by Cisco Systems in 1998 where he was a distinguished engineer from 2000 until retiring in 2014 he shifted gears to work on network performance measurement and routing analysis as a fellow at packet design in retirement he continued to work on various projects such as volunteering for the Computer History Museum to produce an operational emulation of the 1960s era IBM 1620 computer a room-sized computer where he first got his start in coding as an undergrad at Occidental College as a brilliant engineer Steve also enjoyed sharing his creations with others one of the more unique ones being his solid-state digital Monopoly game that he first showcased at the PC Festival in Anaheim in 1978 which he continued to Tinker with and improve over the decades but deliberately tried to preserve the usage of the technology from the era when it was first created at the same time he was pushing the envelope of Internet architecture Steve also was an early early adopter of electric vehicle technology and fit his house with solar panels decades ago not surprisingly he enjoyed helping debug the early Tesla Roadster EV before it was released to the public and yes that's a picture of some of the earliest Roadster owners on a group road trip down the coast of California photo taken out of the back of Steve's red Roadster hopefully by the passenger and not the driver for those of you who have the privilege to work with Steve you know firsthand that he had an encyclopedic knowledge about anything and everything with which he became involved and he enjoyed being a keeper of the prehistory of the internet's Evolution tour packet audio and video his attention to detail was unrivaled by anybody I have ever met whether it wasn't bringing the real-time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "transport protocol to life or in rebuilding historical Electronics his meticulousness motivated those of us lucky enough to collaborate with him to bring our best selves to the task at hand and in addition to his wisdom Steve was the consummate role model for quiet leadership humility and kindness in 2011 he was awarded the 2011 leadership award by the international multimedia teleconferencing Consortium and in 2020 he was the co-recipient of the IEEE internet award having been nominated by his ABT co-chair Colin Perkins whose wise words I paraphrase here Steve has long provided an example of how an ITF working group chair should act with humility and fairness while building on a deep understanding of the underlying technology and systems architecture he saw consensus where none seemed possible he would patiently patiently listen to all sides of an argument identify the concerns correct misunderstandings of the architecture and then quietly carefully and respectfully help the working group come to consensus it is without doubt that Steve's Technical and Leadership contributions were essential to the success of RTP in particular and internet multimedia standards and protocols in general Steve passed away on the morning of July 4th 2022 an auspicious state in the U.S celebrated his independence day when the fireworks began in the evening this July 4th I couldn't help but imagine the fireworks were celebrating Steve's life all that he accomplished and all the people whose lives he touched in conclusion and to Echo the sentiments of the many people who reached out to me after my posting to the ITF list about Steve's passing it was truly a gift to have worked with him Steve you'll be sorely missed for those of you who wish to send condolences to his family or to know further details about the memorial to be held in August or to donate to the endowed chair in computer science that he and Karen seated with the honorarium"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "from the IEEE internet award and it was established for the newly created CS department at his alma mater please reach out to me next slide I assembled a few pointers to readings and writings and viewings for those of you who might like to reminisce a little bit further thank you again for this opportunity to share some thoughts with you thank you very much thank you anyone else who'd like to say a few words about Steve okay thank you well Magnus is coming up for Magnus okay [Music] is that on yeah okay yeah I mean I replaced or tried to replace yeah Steve casters co-chair or EBT back in 2003 very large shows to try to step faster and and provided very I think very good role model for how to be a chair and go on and I think it's been very important for my development in ITF so I will keep on remembering column yeah I have a good filter ad that hasn't been said already [Music] there are some very big shoes to fill Steve was um I think the role model for how a chair should behave always um as Eve said always um incredibly well prepared incredibly knowledgeable incredibly polite"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "incredibly tactful and willing to work to to gauge consensus it it says it was very much a privilege to work with him who I um lift up to those shoes when I joined this coach here and I hope that it would be uh a a an example for many in the idea I think of the way he shared groups he'll be missed all right thank you everybody thank you so much all right now on to our regular agenda which I'm sure he would want us to continue to work on uh so we're going to start with kryptex of Sergio and the DVC palette format skip payload format 7983 this which is the demultiplexing and then two things in rtpo for quick both the both the RTP proper and the sdp uh and then v3c and green metadata any objections or shall we continue okay seems good next foreign ER hmm uh maybe I should take over doing the slides I don't know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "but are you there I'm going to take over driving the slides no that's not what I wanted to do how do I how do I do this and right okay yeah so draft status we have published uh rtt multi-party rttmex and uh jpeg XS vp9 is still in mishraf Waiting indirectly on frame marking um uh literally still hear us from the remote people making sure that we didn't lose anybody when I did that uh see some people unmuting themselves uh okay somebody says so she'll have fun yeah we're good good thank you um yeah maybe when I got called away from his desk um and yeah we've done uh Last Call on cryptex and BBC we'll have some comments on the uh the iqf last call cryptex VVC will have some comments on those um well it says somebody says there's no slides so other people have slides you know we're on if you want to get it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "things aren't working right you can see them great um yeah so um yes and then and we did um we need a revised ID on frameworking um so mother's nodding in the back of the room so hopefully that means that will happen soon um yes and then uh working group bus call completed um on uh Skip and secondary best we'll have discussions of those and we have adopted RDP over quick and we did a call for adoption GameStop for RTP which we'll talk about next slide I think it is yes so on game State over RTP um there were only two responses one of whom was the same organization as the initial proposer so um our suggestion is that the proponents uh go to the community I get the impression that the interested Community here is not the usual uh suspects we get here in the ABT Core Group so um we're asking and I've asked colonists also personally asking them to send to go and um try to get some people to express interest in the document um and we will extend our call for adoption until sometime in September so that people can do it after August Vacations so if I guess one question is do we know who the who the core constituency is so we can actually reach them which we presumably we didn't do the last time yeah I mean I think what we should do is we should um ask I mean uh Colin Jennings as the person who proposed this to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "um deducted I mean I think he knows who the community is so he we should ask him to to ask them to come and indicate their interest in this if they are still interested all right next cryptex Association hi hello so this is life please so the current status of the draft is that since we submittedly for ISD review we have receiving 39 comments directorate review so they all the non-contentious feedback has been incorporated into the graph and there are three feedback that I considered it as one fix that I was playing later and V8 open a STL open issues that it is what I am going to explain during this meeting so we try to to get Twitter from then and try to to see um how to address them some of them is is just called to action so it's and deciding if we agree on on the feedback and if we incorporate it or not so I think that most of the will be easy to explain but not really easy to get a consensus so that's a slide please so the the one fixed issues is the first one is was the user's inclusive language and this was mainly because of the of the term master key that's either that I don't think that I can change it in the in the draft because it is referencing the master key term in the RPC 3711 so I think that if we need to we have to change or for changing the draft decrypted that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "we'll have to also update the RCC 3711 to to update and remove the the master key term and replace it for something else and then the next one was in a request to see if we can provide more details about the fingerprint issues about the and the the RTP the uses of the RTP header extension a part of what it is already shown in the OR describing the header extension um the RPC I don't think that there is anything else that I can reference so that's what I have considered this this as not fixed if anyone has say any any draft or any publication that we can link it will be right but if not I I think that we cannot do much more on this and the the last one was about checking if we should register the two new values for the definite by profile it has the value that was incorporated in the draft but um there is no INR register already for this values so I don't think that it is something that this technique is to solve if we the it should be done in either RCC um 82 85 or or even in the RPC 35 15. so um I don't because I again I don't think that Crystal shouldn't there's other Ayana register if the other drafts that Define these values and and Define the register we could add the values that we have definite in the in the graph so any feedback about these issues Murray yeah all right this is Murray about the Ayanna question so does that mean we're okay with those values just being"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "registered in a scattering of rfcs and that's we're okay with that I'm just making it yeah I think for for yeah I mean these are I think the second and third ever defined for I mean sorry maybe third and fourth ever decide to find where this value and I think I'm I mean I think at some point it might be useful to do a registry if we ever get any more of these but I wouldn't recommend blocking this draft on that I'm okay with interesting I guess the other option is like do you want to make a separate document just all it does is create the registry and collect values and you could do that too yeah I'm fine I just wanted to see like I think you know if I think that might be worth doing if we ever get a another one but for now I think it's probably not necessary um so message like this so there was another the and one issue raised by by Ayana that there was a mismatch between then the the description of the parameter and what was actually being registered so we said that they could be used at that session level of media labor but the general registration only registered it for media level uh I think this was a mistake that I made when one of the drafts so I removed it intentionally the decision level one and what I have done in the in the new draft is to just put the back again that it can be used for session level and media level but as I mean as it was it's a change to them to the to the to the graph I wanted to write it here to just to see if this is this is still the consensus of the group or if anyone has any any concerned about how it is at both session level media level so nested light please also there was two questions about iprs and I don't think that we need to to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "do anything Bernard already already answered those issues in in both the mailing lists and in the issues and I'm not sure if we need to do anything else regarding this to to fix the to or to cover the the feedback or if we need to do anything else regarding this well we we covered it in the last meeting and also on the mailing list so I think the only issue was that at the time I did the write-up we didn't have the disclosure so that's why the confusion was created okay thank you but not so next one please so this one is the there was one uh that and that recommended that this would be formally update the RPC 3711 because it also they this is a mechanism or it's a alternative approach of foreign to check that if everyone is okay if with this change and the second thing is that when I have included this in the in the in the in the draft I have two warnings when when updated to the when when submitting the draft and I'm not sure if the first one should be ignore or not or if anyone can get me some some guidance regarding that yeah the first one can be ignored the second one Simon should probably be yeah did you ever come up it doesn't mean that this is just with respect to this IPR slide there were some languages offense me a little bit and I would put to put on the record that I don't believe the IDF has"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "something like um requirement for an IPR disclosure to be compatible with something the ipf has yeah there are certain formal requirements how to make a disclosure but and when to make a disclosure but what is in there uh is none of our business here yeah certainly there's no such thing as incompatible with the ITF IPR disclosure thank you bye so yeah I think on this slide I think yeah the your two resolutions are correct ignore the disclaimer that's just making sure you didn't import any text from 3711 which you didn't yep okay so necess like please this one is a bit more there was some some feedback about if a we should first deprecate RPC uh since 904 and then you say if we should and if both are negotiated if we sweep the Mandate or we should recommend that the agree test should be used instead of a RPC since 904 because currently the it is up to the implementation so yeah um in this one Sergio I I don't know if it makes sense because when you offer both cryptex and 6904 it means I can receive either one right which you might do because you don't know what the other side will actually support right presumably the other the answer should only pick one of them yeah so I think you know this is this question is a bit confused yeah I think that it is about if it is a one receiver support both if the sender if we should say that the sender should use grid test instead of instead of RPC cs904 well it's up to the sender right the sender can pick one the sender"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "remember the center the other side the answer is also saying what it can receive yeah right it's it's not it's not choosing from among the things that the that they're in the offer it's saying what I can receive so it might also say I can receive both it's up to the sender then to decide what to send but we want to give me guidance on towards that yeah you could give guidance on that it's not yeah on what you should send if if you have the option of both yeah Magnus did you ever uh my name is I think it would be wrong to deprecate the normal way of doing the header extensions I know there are other usages out there or at least proposed usages well it's not compatible with cryptex so obviously there are things where you do need the in the clear headers yeah yeah and I guess it wouldn't be to deprecate the header extensions you know unencrypted header extensions at all it's do you want to do you want to deprecate the of the old counter extension encryption mechanism yeah but no so I know that 3dp has some proposals where it will put they want to have header extensions declare I think they might also be head extensions that needs to be encrypted so therefore the old mechanism is going to be needed um which is so so therefore and I think it's it's just uh if I understood but not correct here it's like yeah let the application declare and select what expressed their preference according to normal STP rules Etc or other singular mechanisms so yeah I mean my inclination would be to say if you support both you know you should do cryptex unless you have a need to send both unless you actually have an application need to send both encrypted and in the clear headers in the same packets would that be reasonable"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "if you support both I I mean if if you intend to encrypt everything yeah I guess it should would be fine yeah yeah so um yeah I mean I'd suggest um if you followed that Sergio I'd say suggest you know do a PR and post to the list and ask are you getting back in the queue or are you just or did I should remove your heart all right um yes so we said no that we should not deprecate the RCC 6904 and we put up yard for with the suit if the sender support both that this should uh it's to send group text is that if even if it if it doesn't require to to specifically nothing with it that'll be my inclination but you know if anybody else has any comments well I I agree that you should not deprecate 6904 um that that would make sense um but if you're negotiating cryptex and you do see and you also support 1604 um I think the whole point of supporting critics is you want more security and you want you know less revealed um so I don't understand why you would say should and not must here if you say should what is the exception of when you when you may not again I think if you actually have an application need to have some header extensions in the clear and some encrypted but but why would you negotiate cryptex then yeah no yeah you're not actually negotiating it Mo you're just saying I I am capable of receiving it right that's a separate Choice from what you send so you think that there's a security"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "requirement asymmetrically that uh that I I'm very security conscious about what I've received but I'm not very security conscious about what I send stranger things have happened no no I mean it's I'm just saying that decisions are separate I think what we're talking about here is what you send if the other side says it can receive both well I I thought that the resolution was going to be to say if you support both then you should use cryptics and usually when you put a should you should you specify when you would not what's the exception why is it not a must when would you not do this and I'm having a hard time envisioning what useful text you would say of when you would not do this yeah I I suggest we um discuss some of the last ones we have text once we have a PR unit okay yeah because okay okay I think this is light please yeah so this one is a and currently we said that if we say that the that we support created a wheel or an and the application considering that it is mandatory but we receive an RDP that has not acquisite headers that we should process in the RTP packet and then the question was is not a massive stop so I mean I would agree given that there's there's the if you consider it mandatory which is obviously yeah another vegetation decision I think cost is fine for that conditional case that's sort of the definition of mandatory yeah yeah yeah yeah so I agree so either we we should change the the mandatory or we should put a master okay lesson light so this is what is the The Next Step so I will I will just make the the pr that it is missing and publish it to the end to the mailing list for confirmation and when"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "that is done is I will produce a new grid text graph and I'm not sure what do we need to do next if we should have a last call again or again ISD review I think well I'm trying what exactly is the procedure uh you know um if I think I think it just goes to the iesg and the ISC members decide whether it um satisfies their uh discuss and comments so I think that's all right I don't think these changes are big enough to require another working group last call hmm yeah I agree okay okay so then all right all from a second thank you but hold on Magnus I yeah um so on this one I think we said I think we said we've got a must in you know I think that Sergio said either go to muster change the word mandatory I'd be inclined to say go to must because I think that's the easiest you know easiest thing to you know say but anybody else have any comments all right okay I think that's it okay thank you Sergio yeah thank you thank you Stefan's up next I'm here uh BBC payload for my next slide thank you so uh version 16 was out uh in the isg they came up with album with three discusses and a whole bunch of useful comments including a real stupid Buck from our side we populated the the Yana template only halfway and copy paste error stupid stuff anyway um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "these three discusses two were cleared after we published words in 17 uh in 17 we tried to address everything so let's discuss remained and that is related to a technology that was introduced in RCA 3984 back 20 years ago or so regarding sender properties which is something that somewhat changes the um in in and offer answers scenario someone changes the semantics of of how you use STP basically um now um that that history was probably not uh um in inside's mind when he uh came up with this discuss so we had a meeting this morning um and uh the the outcome of that meeting is that well I have informative language explaining this unusual behavior of s-prop per points um and issue a version 18 and he plans to clear his discuss against that version 18 if things are looking good and then um our suggestion or author suggestion is um the updated yarner template which was the only significant normative change actually the only normative change if I recall uh that was signed up by by the Jana review uh signed off and the era directors generally responded thanks for addressing our comments so I think uh we and this change here will be in an purely informative so I think we don't need another last program in the working group what the IDF is doing is up to the what the isg is doing is up to the isg obviously thank you very much for a second sure I think that should be fine yeah all right any comments on any of that or show me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "one all right next is Skip I think Dan are you presenting or is it Mike oh Mike Let's uh I'll start the show off a little bit okay um this is Mike Fowler and good afternoon to the ABT Corp Community uh next next slide please uh our status this is awaiting external review resolution of issues raised um we uh an email is referenced here from the music working group that indicates third review the sdp is complete and I guess the important message is it does not define any new sdp attributes there is no need for any new sdp procedures gen Arts review had a simple summary of the simple document is adequate to register the media type as is art art had some questions on it and basically said not ready and we'll go over the the comments uh from the community in the next slides our draft is due to expire on November 26th and Dan will pick up this we uh we put this together thank you okay uh I guess the one of the main issues that was actually raised in both comments for Gen art and art art was regarding the references to skip two tenants references to skip 214 both of these groups wanted them to be normative um however I believe that this group actually determined way back when that these would be informational documents um as far as we go as far as our opinion it doesn't really matter to us I guess it's just a matter of coming to our resolution on this as far as which type of reference this should be Bernard yeah um as you've said I think many times this document is not the documentation of skip"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "so it's it's merely the documentation of of essentially the sdp so I don't think it's the the comment says you you need it to implement skip but I don't think that's necessarily relevant which is why we allowed it to be informational so there may be a little bit of misunderstanding there on the part of the reviewer as to as to what the document is actually doing okay all right then we'll we'll keep it as informational reference uh at this point okay uh next slide foreign group mentioned that 214 has only mentioned uh at one point in the document um we've discussed possibly even removing the reference to 214.2 from from this document only because it's internally skip 214 is really a precursor to this upcoming RFC if you will so it's kind of can go away if you will I guess the only issue I saw with that is that it is actually referenced in the Guyana registration um so we'd I guess as part of that update and it kind of leads into another question later on about also about the Ianna registration about how that would affect if we do decide to remove the skip 214 reference from our document Bernard yeah I think you could remove it and then update the registration um since it seems like all the comments refer to the references having as few as possible just I might just say to some hassle you know do you do you need this reference does it is it you know uh really necessary to understand the document and as you've said I for 214 I think the answer is no um right like I said it was kind of a for internally for our for our working"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "group The skip working group it was really a precursor to to this reference and it and it's its content is essentially what this RFC is so it can kind of go away if you will from from our from this ietf document so the the other way to think of it though is also the fact that the that while the information presented in 214.2 and this draft Ric are are nearly identical the communities that will actually use them um are different and their references are are more relevant you know the RFC is meant for people outside of our skip Community who are building products that have to carry our payloads um and that's what they need to build to the the skip is references for ecu's end units that will be implementing the full scope of a bunch of other skip documents um and this would be the only place that provides a tie-in for that for those functions so remove it if it gets this along that's great otherwise it is the tie-in to the community the skip community and the uh the networking Community yeah I mean I think go ahead sorry partner yeah I guess my only question would be you know just it's a maintenance question you know are you gonna uh you know what if you decide to do an update for video or something are you gonna do it in the skip 214 series like have a DOT three are you gonna update this document that that might be the only reason it's relevant is if you're trying to point someone to it but if this document really kind of supersedes and Obsolete 214.2 and there's no plan to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "have a DOT three or that four or something then it seems like the reference is gratuitous yeah I I I can see it both ways that's the only way I bring it up but because it the RFC won't won't uh obsolete the document to our community um but yeah I think the only and the only alternative I would have is just uh I mean if you are do want to keep it in just mention it somewhere outside the abstract just mention it in the introduction or something saying hey this used to be defined by 214.2 but this supersedes that or something like that so just just so it's more clear to people where what the document is you know they're just as it says like so it's mentioned somewhere besides the abstract and the registration just you know informationally if you want to do that otherwise as I said taking it out would be fine yeah if you're in agreement I think we'll probably just to remove it yeah that sounds fine to me okay all right thanks uh next slide and back to the back to the registration here I guess the question was uh the sections five one and five two of this document are basically a if you will the Ina registration um we did do that earlier before we before we submitted this uh draft uh skip drafts that we did register the payload types first I think the question was um as far as updating the Ina registration for this was or having it also repeated if you will in our document in this document um I guess it was they've talked it one of the questions was about how to update contact information and things like that about um that I don't know if we could throw that question out there to um talk about the first year I guess what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "the process is if there is a process for updating contact if that's yeah and I think that if the uh the goal of this document is to change these registrations to refer to this document rather than 214.2 so I think if you explicitly say on both the bullets on this slide this you know Updates this registration to be this document rather than the the previous registration I think that that it should be fun then you're not repeating but and you're not repeating the registration you're changing the registration and that's fine right and I guess that would because there's also there's actually algebra reference it points to 214.2 in that I enter registration so we I mean that section would have to be updated sorry uh but have to be updated to remove that remove those references as well so yeah not a big deal so yeah so yeah I think that should that should be fun as long as it's clear that this is this is do this is not repeating something that's already exists it's doing something new it should be fun right right and I gotta assisted the comment for it that the section seven and this the second bullet there about adding instructions to Ayanna to point to this document when it becomes an RFC rather than the those those things I guess it's just about a sentence or two or whatever there's a specific language I need to use or whatever for them to recognize that or yeah so yeah okay all right I guess that's that next slide uh yes so I don't know Mike I don't know if you want to wrap this up here I guess this is yeah we were there were some comments received that were more narrative um and they were not incorporated as they they don't impact the technical information necessary to Port skip they"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "were references to the intro the abstract and background information where references were occurring and and I it was it was I guess I I not to be quite blunt but you know someone's opinion that that doesn't really impact what we really want people to concentrate on which is the technical information so I I didn't want to start moving stuff around for the sake of one person's opinion um and it it doesn't really it's just a story and anyone can tell the story in different ways so we left it it just seemed like an easier way to go um and the comments which impact the technical understanding that were discussed here with the resolution we'll put that into the draft RFC we would look for you know Dan was asking for information of how to approach Diana about uh updating what is presently there to reflect well for instance an RFC number when we get it here but you know that we didn't know what the specific procedures who to contact and how to do that so we may be looking for guidance there um and you know after that we um you know we can update this document and we can update Diana in parallel once we have something of an RFC number to tell them to put into place but what are the next steps what's next after this um go ahead yeah I mean um I think it's it's basically the main thing here is the update the Ayana uh in uh registration section to do the things we talked about um in terms of next steps Beyond this it would be the shepherd write-up um the issue we're having I think right now is I think it's stabilizing they've changed a bunch of the questions and and the shepherding procedure uh but as soon as uh but that would be The Next Step Beyond this once you've submitted a a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "new draft I guess the sector review is still outstanding but hopefully that'll show up at some point um but I don't think we have to wait for that to show up right yeah because I wasn't quite clear about exactly from the art art review exactly what specific things that they said that were a problem that would prevent this from moving forward I mean there was there was a comment about some of the initial language up front the boilerplate uh documents for the 20 21-19 reference um and we changed that but they just I guess we were not clear about exactly which which particular issues that were raised that were showstoppers for for that group so yeah it would be the I think the the ones you do have to fix are the Ayanna issues okay and and you know the references which we just talked about so I think we've pretty much gone over everything that would be you know uh would be an impediment to moving forward okay all right we'll get that updated review probably next week I guess we'll see if we can get version two out great all right okay I think that's it yeah I think thank you very much Bernard thank you okay uh so we'll try to make this quick this is an update on 7983 bits next slide so uh I think you've all heard what this is basically about it's attempt to Multiplex quick with srtp srtcp start and turn dtls and zrtp um and it does include an update to dtls content field with no other change next slide so the working good last call completed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "on June 6th we got uh three major comments um one was from Martin who was concerned that uh some of the text had quick version dependencies for example we explicitly mentioned the quick short and long headers which could conceivably change in some uh future version uh David pointed out that uh we our language about the quick greasing was uh somewhat vague and suggested a much more specific language don't send the the transport parameter um another question he raised was relating to the multiplexing of churn channels and quick um and Jonathan also chimed in on that uh which and I'll talk a little bit about the resolution but it's basically along the lines Jonathan suggested which is that um the overlap between turn channels and Quake isn't actually a big problem because the turn channel package should only come from a turn server so we'll talk about that in a little bit uh a little bit more on next slide so this is the updated diagram it's basically the same as what we had before but we took out references to the quick short and long headers basically we just say forward it to quick and then whatever quick version you happen to have will figure out what what those packets mean assuming it's it's getting it's being forwarded correctly so we don't really have to put in version specific things here um and so that's the change in the diagram next so uh in terms of changes uh we had major changes were in section one and section two and in section one we basically said hey we are compatible with quick version two the in the in its draft form uh but not with the quick bit greasing and as a result you must not send that transport parameter um and then in section two this is where we uh talk about the overlap between turn channels and quick and how to deal with it so this kind of is is uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "important text um and basically what we're saying here is along the lines of what Jonathan suggested which is that the overlap isn't a real problem um because you would only get the turn Channel packets from a turn server uh and what what that means is you basically as Jonathan said in this message you only really need to be able to disambaguate the turn from uh disambiguate stun um and then the other one is is disambiguating srtp srtcp zrp dtls are quick um uh which won't be sent from from a source in IP and Port that had responded to a turn allocation so it is a little bit different from the previous the multiplexing advice uh in in 7983 and that you do need to keep track of the turn server IP addresses and ports uh to be able to do the demultiplexing but I think if you do that it is uh the overlap is not an issue and and you can un Ambiguously uh demultiplex that's a very good summary of what I suggested so great thank you okay so uh the question here is have we addressed everything uh in particular this this overlap uh between stun uh between turn and quick um and if not is there anything else we need to address to kind of address all of the working group last call uh issues that were brought up you know I personally I think we're probably ready um and I guess since you're the author I can take over shepherding it um anybody object otherwise we'll go ahead"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "great thank you for that thank you okay uh RTP over quick who's doing this not this uh yeah uh no turn that on enter yeah okay so we have a short update on RTP real quick um I will first go through the updates we did between the last interview meeting and the call for adoption and then later look at some of the open issues and proposed Solutions uh next slide please so we added a scope section at the beginning of the draft which explains that this draft is to or aiming to describe a minimum I think for our application usage of RTP overclick we try to do the minimal stuff first and then we can go to more complex scenarios later the Baseline here expects that we have a standard quick implementation but it can benefit from Quick extensions and we describe some of the optimizations we can do to RTP over quick when we have some of these quick extensions and redescribe what API um what the API of a quick implementation could offer to implement these optimizations um we are limiting this to RTP over quick without doing any changes to quick or RTP and the signaling is to be done in a separate way example it could be STP for RTP overpric which we'll look at later next slide then there was a discussion on the mailing list that we need an alpn we have added a section for this in the I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "think in the beginning of the draft um that an alpn is required by click to set up a connection and we defined r2pmox quick to indicate that this um that it would be possible to Multiplex different flows next to RTP on the same quick connection um we will go back to that later and uh issue I will talk about later on a slide and we added similar to other drafts defining alpn's subsection which is to be removed later to add a suffix to the alpn as long as this is in draft state so that one can identify the draft which is identified by this LPN the draft version next slide please we added a section on API considerations which basically lists a set of features which quick implementations can provide to help implementing certain optimizations the section is split into two subsection one is listing information so that's a quick implementation or the quick stack could expose to the application layer to help implementing the optimizations in RTP uh that includes for example the MDU size to send datagrams of the correct size acknowledgments as they are listed in the rtcp section which we talked about already earlier um things like stream States so we added streams in the last meeting I talked about that I think and if we are using streams then we need to know something like how far is the stream progress so it's a RTP packet um completely sent or is it not so that the RDP implementation or the application implementation can make a decision whether it wants to keep the stream open to allow for re-transmissions or whether it wants to cancel the stream because it's too late to transmit the packets [Music]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "um and then the second second subsection of the API considerations um lists some methods that could be exposed by a quick implementation such as canceling streams if we want to or for example setting congestion controllers next slide please other options which are a little changes in the sections which are already there re-restrict RTP sessions for now to use either quick streams or quick datagrams not both at the same time um different RTP sessions can use Quick streams and datagrams so just not within one session and then we add some implementation applications about the mapping from Quick statistics to rtcp when quick streams are used I think I already mentioned this in the last meeting that in this case the connections are not exactly what is in the network because due to retransmissions we have other statistics then we would have if we would use rtcp and we added an amplification tutorial node to the draft that an application should be aware of this it might be what the applicant application wants to know but it needs to keep in mind that this is not exactly what rtcp would give uh then we have a little subsection about congestion control considerations when a quick connection is shared between um RTP sessions and other data streams so yeah well yeah just a question about the first point um what's the uh what's the point of the restriction on not being able to use uh streams and datagrams simultaneously uh for now as far as it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "was just um because we wanted to do the simple thing first we are not exactly sure what the implications are if one session is using both and we might loosen this restriction later I would say but we were just not clear about what the implications are of this okay so just just FYI in in some other um and some other usages of media over quick like like in Mock and quicker we are actively sending both uh streams and datagrams and we see a lot of use cases where that that actually has some benefits yeah thanks I see there's someone else in this here but I can't read the name from here uh no I think that's just I didn't oh Bernard yeah um so I did want to follow up on What mo was talking about you know particularly when you when you're bundling things together right there might be uh you might you might have a bunch of things on the same quick connection you might be sending data um and that actually led me to a question about the alpn you know you're suggesting RTP mux but you might also be sending data on that connection um presumably if you're sending data you still would want the the same congestion control for example if you're if you're doing audio and video and you're sending data that data you know might well use the same low latency algorithm right you don't necessarily care uh that and the algorithm would take care of of multiplexing those two things so anyway I think the main thing is uh it would be good to actually have some goals in there to address some of the questions that Mo had um so that we're clear about what what we're trying what the scope of what we're trying to do is um and why we're imposing some of these restrictions so that we can understand whether we want them or not just to clarify that the use cases that I had in mind were sending audio as datagrams and video as streams or a complex video stream layered video"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "stream uh the dependent layers as uh streams and the independent layers of streams and the dependent layers as datagrams those are the specific examples that I was at I've seen I've seen usage similar usage where the base layer is sent as reliable uh and the upper layers are sent as datagrams yeah yeah you're good just quickly on this um we have that on our radar as as much as said um it's since there is different ways of how you could prioritize one thing over the other the quick datagram graph currently says so if there's a datagram coming you sent that first there's a bunch of implications to be understood and uh this is what we currently have on our agenda of trying to figure out um so there is not a um a disagreement with this idea but uh it's it's not completely obvious uh what kind of feature interaction it's been using both at the same time for different things would there would be that's all yeah um and in fact uh we've seen some of these algorithms implemented and they didn't have the effect that was intended uh for example saying you send the datagrams right away doesn't necessarily as I think you pointed out mean you get low delay so it sounds like there's interest in that but perhaps you know it needs more investigation okay then we added considerations on connection migration and zero rtt in our discussion section and some minimal consideration security considerations next slide please there are currently four open issues in the GitHub repository um so one thing which we have not as a data repository first um in the GitHub repository first translators forwarding UDP packets"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "from or rtps packets over UDP received via RTP over quick are bound to the MTU of the UDP packet and in our current draft it says that we can use streams for RTP packets where one RTP packet is sent on one screen and that could potentially be larger than the MTU in the UDP um which it's being forwarded to so that is one problem that we might have to solve then two issues for which we already have um pull requests in the GitHub repository the first one is with transmission flow IDs there was a question that on which Pro ID RTP packet has to be retransmitted and I would say that is up to where a rich RTP screen that RTP packet is re-transmitted in and then the flow ID will be that of this RTP session um then there was a question about which screen times we're using and we added a pull request which says that we are actually only using unidirectional because we intend to close the stream as soon as the RTP packet is transmitted and then um that case we don't have any data flowing in the other direction because we cancel the stream after close the stream afterwards anyway so we're using unidirectional screens um Chevron this is regarding the first bullet they are translated for voting brackets over UDP my suggestion without really fully understanding what you're doing there my suggestion is to not over engineer right um sender stupidity is something you can't design against yeah if if a sender if you are in a scenario and which you will be probably in the next 10 or 20 years uh whether maybe a Gateway involved that that speaks UDP on the other side and Center is stupid enough to create uh packets that are that are megabyte long well tough right business will take care"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:02",
    "text": "of that okay thanks this is Spencer Dawkins uh we talked with uh that's a little uh a little bit about this earlier today I think and uh one of the things I was suggesting was that there's lots of different kinds of RTP translators in Little Boxes uh looks like there's an RFC full of them and for us to be real in addition to what Stefan was saying uh it's good to be real clear on what kind of middle box we're talking about here because there's lots of them and there's probably one or two that we might have in mind for use with uh RTP with uh RTP over quick uh yeah I think we'll look into this Brown there's a bunch of things here uh that that this group is doing or may do that may have impact on RTP topologies um so it may be worth thinking about how to get that information somewhere I'm thinking in particular about intent encryption there may be situations where you know a main can't wouldn't be able to adjust the MTU size or anything like that and I think this is just one of them um so just something to think about it thanks okay then the last two issues are um two issues to which we don't have Solutions yet the first one is considerations about stream concurrency because in quick uh we need the sender needs credits to open streams and the receiver has to provide enough credits for that and Lucas if I do opened this issue and suggested that we should add some considerations about that because it limits the amount of parallel rgp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "packets which are currently being transmitted and um we should probably give some guidance on this how a receiver has to manage this and then the last one is also from Lucas Potter is um what happens if datagrams are not enabled and he's addressed that we could encode something for this case in the alpn tokens or create multiple alpn tokens for example to let senders and receivers negotiate and the connection establishment what kind of transmission they are going to use streams or datagrams or use transfer parameters for that and um but then we also have the external signaling for um setting or negotiating the sessions probably in sdp for example and what what would happen if I for example negotiate something in sdp and then the connection setup does something else so that's an issue we are having in the GitHub repositories currently and we don't exactly know how to resolve this yet um yeah but I think these are the current issues so if there's input from the working group that would be probably quite helpful um and then next slide so um as the next steps or recent steps we submitted a working group draft this week and then we're going to continue with it working with Spencer and the sdp signaling um yeah I think that's all I have for now and you know um just a comment in in the web transfer working group we also talked about whether datagrams should be required and it was pointed out that this is very easy to implement in quick so there's no real excuse for not doing it in a quicker momentation so the thinking was just require it you know in the transport parameter and and just get it up you know get it over with there whether you use it or not an sap is a different story but at the quick layer just require that they do datagrams"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:07",
    "text": "foreign anything else on this or else Spencer thank you so I'm Spencer Dawkins and I'm um the follow-on to Mathis and York um next slide please so basically remembering that um Michael with an individual draft was to do a minimal sdpa specification which roughly tracks uh the draft that has now been adopted by the ABC core working group and to track more high level issues in a separate repo that I think a lot of the discussion will not end up in the minimals STP specification so um fsitf I'm providing an update based on the it was I was actually looking at Dash four of the International Drive but I think the only change was the name to reflect adoption and [Music] um please feel free to provide feedback to on the mayoral list also and my Congress to ensure one of the minimal specification before"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "our next WT Corps meeting um eventually I think would be good for me to request an option of a normal specification so uh but I'm not doing that at this time um next slide please so what ABC core sorry AVP profiles to register was uh issue number five uh first off the last General was to register one profile uh quick RTP absolute pef and noting that the secure IDP profiles are most useful when bridging to non-quick or TCP RTP and uh we were saying that we won't have that conversation or revise the RTP topologies RC and of course I forgot to prepare UDP for consistency in the registry my apologies and then other related questions started popping up a lot about datagrams strange sources datagrams on the next slide and uh where we need ice TCP which is a real issue next slide please so [Music] um let's say about RDP other streams datagrams are both chosed up in a couple of places um the issue in a parade in Issue Number Nine uh or sorry number three um right now uh there's discussion of including a shared capability as well in the draft we've adopted although I'm getting slightly ahead of where the adopted draft is so my proposal would be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:02",
    "text": "to do extreme datagram and share it if we get to Shared uh basically just based on the discussion we're heading about that draft next slide please this is new do we need tcpis uh this is from Roman um and when this is my summary of His longer explanations that are on list I would recommend taking a look at those um his key Point as I understand it uh is that we need we need a way to fall back to TCP if we can use ice TCP candidates we do have a fallback and if we can't what's the alternative uh his proposal was to also register TCP quick RTP avpf style profiles and um there's actually a continuing discussion since I selected since the slides in on the mailing list about well why would we not just you know go go to RTP over uh over TCP um like I say uh more working group discussion yeah just to to point out that that probably requires some some fundamental and explanation on the list because I haven't yet fully understood how this reason chain of reasoning came into being that that would need to be registered if we are worried about running two congestion controls one in screen or something on top of quick um you should be even more worried about running three contrasting controllers on top of each other if we tunnel the whole thing then to TCP that just doesn't sound about what we what we would want to be doing um Roman won't let you respond first then I'll I guess I put myself in the queue for as an influential"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "ice machinery we're setting up uh calls they come with certain kind of features which again haven't been designed for RTP over quick they've been designed for FTP over UDP and uh they come with uh support for tunneling over TCP or TLS like for instance if you so if you use turn servers you are away through a intermediary server and one of the relays can be over TCP to return server and from turn server over UDP to whatever is using uh whatever we use the party on the other end so it's kind of part of ice Machinery uh the other situation is the other kind of extension is uh istcp which is where you try to establish TCP connection uh between the uh like two eyes or agents and you tunnel the protocol over a TCP connection uh am I guess the mean complicating factor that people kind of Miss in all of this is that the way eyes operate is that you can end up for instance with uh your packets going over HP connection and in the process of nomination your same or a protocol which is running on top you can switch to UDP like the typical example would be it takes some time to set up eternally which would be over UDP so and your istcp candidates will work first so like if you start negotiating connection over istcp and then you switch to uh relay through a turn server while the protocol is still being set up while you're basically sending initial packets for media so it's like so it's kind of all designed to work together and not necessarily ideal for what we're doing with RTP over quick but if we are if we want to use the ice Machinery we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "kind of like stuck with it or we need to redesign it uh to work differently but again that's a fairly heavy uplift so that's uh that's kind of where this whole TTP tunneling comes from and the candidate like actually comes from working in some of the quirks of sdp ice negotiation and that's why I had to add those uh like TTP versions of protocols for dtls srtp and uh did like for the MRCP it's just because of the like in a certain sequence of events you and like you need to signal that you are sending stuff over dcpano and that's the only way to specify it it doesn't we affect the overall raw protocol but it's again not ideal because there are multiple layers of uh vacuum contest there are multiple issues with head of the line congestion when your tunneling over TCP which are again undesirable but it's kind of been treated as a uh a tree that is like is [Music] yeah so anyway so it's just if we're using ice like we need it if we're not using rice we need to come up with alternative for going through essential negotiate connection from behind that or behind yeah um I I should just make the observation that uh Roman and I and York are the three people that are talking on the mailing list right now but the discussion is happening in a mail in a through email thread with a not particularly obvious subject uh I would suggest that uh we plan to do more discussion on the mailing list which will now in our next meeting and uh that the next person to reply change the subject"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "yeah um yeah Jonathan Lennox is an individual I was going to say I mean part of the problem is that ice Stacks generally the obvious implementation is to get to abstractly provide a datagram API and then the ice ice stack figures out how you get end to end so um your suggestion of doing RTP over TLS well abstractly that would be a cleaner thing than quick over TCP would be would mean we have to feed entirely different things down into your stack depending on what the ice negotiated which would be very much a layer violation in terms of having to know what theri stack is doing thank you good night um yeah uh my comment was that I think we may not be thinking about this uh at a high enough level basically within quick we always have to think about failover right and and often that's done at the app layer so as an example in web transport we fail over from HTTP 3 to http 2. um and that does have a whole other series of of issues with it because obviously you can't emulate quick but um I I wouldn't mess as as uh horse said I running uh you know multiple layers of congestion control RTP congestion control over quick congestion control over TCP that's just going to be a disaster I wouldn't even want to imagine to analyze that like bbrv2 over new Reno scream over bbrv2 over new Reno uh thanks yeah I mean the problem is that the way we have to do the selection is ice and I don't think we want a new selection mechanism in this space uh but not I would make the observation that I was thinking about this roughly as a quick failover uh thing like you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "were talking about but that was mostly because I don't understand ice well enough to go lower yeah I I just wanted to suggest that we really try to write this down as in as as emails because I get a stack overflow when I'm trying to follow that that explanation I also want to remark that back in the days when I my my dim memory comes twice to remember what I had been what we had been doing when I was sharing a music at the time um you could tell ice what you wanted to negotiate right so if we have an API abstraction problem that's a different thing from being a protocol from being a protocol and signaling problem and we shouldn't be getting the letter in the way of getting the former this other thing right thank you Roman after that I'm going to close this yes again just to reiterate uh again I as far as I know with its currently limitations cannot uh include like a non-uniform protocols you cannot negotiate between RTP over TLS and like let's say quick over TP using ice partially because you are sending media and you're sending data from a higher level protocol during the elimination so the candidates are changing and your protocol can rewind transport protocol is changing while you are sending media so it essentially means like figuring out the transition from RTP over click to RTP over TLS and or it's actually like switching between quick uh handshake and RTP over TLS handshake in the middle of the handshake and this is just like not something that it is possible to do it's like it's designed to send the same kind of ending the same higher level product"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "I look forward to continued discussions on the mailing list thank you Rama and thank you for raising the issue next slide so we were having a conversation about um what to do with quick congestion control and whether we need to be able to explicitly ask an implementation or do things uh and where we were at the last interim meeting I guess was that uh I was proposing to explore whether uh with our RTP running over a quick uh it was a Frontline practice at the congestion control issues um now that we're recommending all right now that uh the draft will adopted has is registering in alpn we'll have a quick implementation of the other end we'll know this is something like rpt so the proposal is that the sap should carry arpans because that'll last long years of multiple draft versions and experiments and things like that and mix up next slide oh sorry Bernard please Jump Right In yeah um my my concern would be you're now creating additional complexity um you know for example in in webrtc we don't negotiate alpns within gtls right so um I would I would question why you need to do that at multiple places because you'll then oh I negotiated this alpm but I got another one you just have to check both of them so it just creates additional failure modes um so just somebody to think about whether whether in fact this this avoids failures or or it adds to the Brewers um I was thinking of this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "maybe not quite right but uh the way that quick uh variants were being uh advertised in aopm before version one was finalized is am I not getting that right related to something that let us make the sides go away I'm sorry let's shoot something up here yeah it had version there's also version negotiation which is different um yeah it's it's a complicated subject because it did create a lot of brittleness because people would only advertise the last two versions and then sometimes if you got versions ahead you just wouldn't be able to connect right so I I think what you're talking about may be that I am uh getting a little bit ahead of wherever we need to be with this in the uh in the in the sdp address uh discussions we'll talk some more on the mailing list [Music] you need more slides okay or this one oh yeah uh how did I ask for quick feedback is new uh we want to allow implementations to as quick for feedback this is it in the draft um well yeah uh Moses and I saw I was I was um previously referencing the previous slide about alpns um I I don't uh I understand where the LPN purists are coming from that okay I just operate generic web servers and I have no idea people connecting to them blindly are going to get you know H3 or H2 or something else or or not even a HTTP service but something else I understand that aspect but I think this is very different because you're talking about a signaling exchange before where you know the parties know what what the service is it's not a blind uh client going to a port number um so I I don't think uh registering a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:02",
    "text": "bunch of alpns to describe very complex sdps is useful a few months 20 different things I don't think it's worth all the permutations of alpns being registered um to to say that okay I made most these 20 different things the sdp is being explicit about what is being connected to yeah um so I don't think the LPN really provides any benefit whatsoever there yeah so uh make two observations there um one is um that what I'm talking about is um if there are two different versions of the uh RTP over quick uh specification that you support that you would have two different aopms for those but that you're not you know that you're not registering a bunch of alpns depending on what the STP says what do you think that if you have different uh RTP over quick versions that you also have different STP for those Arts pure quick versions it seems like it seems unimaginable to me that Alpine is really the way to disambiguate all this stuff there's gonna be a boatload of STP way before you hit the alpn I believe you thank you back to the next slide um so basically uh now that we're want to allow optionally uh in the current draft um substituting transport layer feedback for rtcp feedback for some um for some aspects of feedback and like I say recognizing that we are trying to reduce overhead where possible and that mapping may require some creativity um one of the proposals that's in the um the prep that the group has adopted is that Quirk does not have Knack but it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:01",
    "text": "can interpret you know it can detect lost packets so if it bounces that back up as a knack or an RTP implementation could know what to do with it um my question here is in order to do this um do while we're talking about enabling transport layer feedback as a clump or are we naming individual pieces of Transport feedback there's a layer feedback that you want to get my proposal was to um you know to request this as a clump but again this this is the first time I'm talking about this with the working group so that's almost certainly needs more working group discussion unless everybody uses just agree with me uh bro yeah I think we're going to need to discuss this in more detail because um along with I think the quick requirements for the transport because um you're going to be negotiating you know just as transport parameters a whole bunch of quick extensions and things like that which may impact your ability to do things and then on top of that you have the what I think of as the RTP negotiation where you're saying What rtcp mechanisms you're using um so I I'd be a little bit concerned about the interaction between all that stuff um and so I think we um uh you know as an example we should be real clear about what we might not be doing like we might not we might be doing using quick acts but that might require timing extensions and then if we have a whole bunch of stuff we might be able to not negotiate Max just as a weird example um so uh I think we need to dig into the transport requirements um and understand fully um what we're like what we need to get rid of various things uh I would uh thank you Bernard I would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:02",
    "text": "agree and uh I would I would uh observe that a lot of the discussion that we've had has been assuming that thatagram was an option before that Graham was yeah I think that I think we started talking about this before data Graham was a working group draft and quick uh now that it's an RFC and quickest starting to do other extensions that might be relevant to us um that's probably a good thing for us to keep in mind as well thank you uh so I guess my question is are we is it do we want to try to Automall I guess you're first uh mozinary one on the previous topic uh for feedback uh one one thing to note from this morning's quick session uh this proposal for quick timestamps uh to be adopted I think it's very relevant for RTP uh or media in general um so I think if people here want to support things like the rtcp feedback formats that do have time stamps and they'd like to carry those over to quick I think I should chime in on the Quick List to say that you support that time stamp extension being added to quick right uh Chris uh Christian equipment who is the author of The Ian quick was um asking if the working group was ready to uh adopt the time stamps draft and um the working group was kind of sort of maybe if I'm characterizing them correctly and um but that um um I you know I did say you know ABT core is interested in this for some of the media uh real-time media congestion control mechanisms that use time stamps and uh it may be it may be correct that uh amox the mock stuff goes the same way"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "also Desiring to use timestamps so um yeah well Mary's point is well taken uh I think the chairs would be in a quick would be sympathetic to people expressing that you know views about this and saying uh some variation if we made this for media because we're using timestamps anyway um [Music] so Spencer do you think are you asking for your draft to be adopted at this time or do you want to continue doing it as an individual um Michael so Michael now that we have our own working group draft for quick overst sdp of RTP over quick yeah how many how many times how many how many stacks are we talking about here um but now that we have our own working group drafts my goal would be to try to keep my draft uh synchronized with the working group political specification um like within a meeting cycle and um so I would like to get my draft coordinated with the working group draft new protocol specification um but the next time we have a ABD core meeting are we having an interim and whenever that is and uh as far as the working group to consider adoption at that point thank you all right thank you okay uh v3c who's presenting Laurie good um I'm gonna be presenting so this is right yes I can hear you maybe a little louder if you can no yeah that's good can someone confirm that yes we can hear"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "you thank you yes can you hear us okay so um at least someone confirmed that they're hearing me so I'm going to be presenting the progress on the RTP pilot format for b3c next slide please so just as a brief background we bro first brought this topic to ADT core in a virtual meeting in February this year and since then we've been receiving some amount of feedback not much um and just as a quick refresher so this v3c encoding is like intending to reuse existing 2D video coding Technologies and compress a volumetric video using that and it is in fact designed to be video code recognostic so you can use pretty much any video Codec available so what it does is it decomposes a 3D volumetric heater frame into beta component components and Atlas component the atlas component being mostly metadata which describes how the video components can be reprojected back into the video back into the 3D space the compression of this atlasm metadata is defined in this ISO standard and its high level syntax or syntax rather is represented as null units that are very similar to hevc or BBC all the units next slide please so the way we proposed and planned to develop this v3crtp payload format is therefore also aligned with the beta coding specifications so the video components can be streamed according to the respective RTD pellets specifications again you can pretty much use whatever video Codec you want to use and then choose the corresponding RFC"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "for the payload format the issue is that there currently is no rtb payload format for this Atlas data which is the metadata that describes the reproduction of this video components into the back into the 3D frame and therefore we were proposing to Define an encapsulation uh for this Atlas null units uh into RTP packets along with that we propose some b3c specific specific payload format parameters which operate just the same way as video coding payload from Target parameters too uh then in addition there's a new grouping type that we're proposing which allows you to group multiple beta components streams and Atlas streams uh together to indicate that these streams media streams should be consumed uh together and lastly there's this reference to bundling which is using this RFC 8843 which essentially allows you to bundle these multiple streams into a single session or single stream next slide please so since the first since we first introduced the topic we've received some amount of feedback so the first feedback was from the meeting and based on that we refined the payload format so we removed a lot of the uh stuff that was inherited from hevc RDP pellet format and then for example dropped the multi-time application package and refined the payload format parameters section and so on so essentially just cleaned it up a bit and after that we've only received a couple of minor improvements just suggestions mostly focusing on edit editorial stuff"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:00",
    "text": "and uh just as a reminder so we're managing this feedback on this uh behind this GitHub link next slide please so in order to solicit more feedback and continue the progress the draft uh we would like to propose a working group adoption at this point um I hope that is something that we can all agree to and yeah now any questions or comments anybody um Stefan so this isn't within this voice I can understand within the scope of the working group so and it's specifically mature so I have no problems in adopting it uh one other thing and that is um uh Lori you will soon run into the same issue with your green metadata people ran into uh a few weeks ago and that is the public availability of iso documents for free um and I cannot hold my service there again uh to um uh distribute that you uh you um [Music] Point Cloud people sent me a late pre-ballot uh draft or pointer to it on the MPX site and end document a November document and uh people who want to review this ISO document deciser standard can contact me privately and I will forward it to those people thank you thank you Stefan all right so um yeah I think it sounds like certainly is in scope so I suspect I think what we should do is we should do a call for adoption on the mailing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "list um this will give you a chance to also um you know the community that's interested in this can express their interests but it's certainly in scope so I think um we'll do a call for adoption unless you disagree burner but I think I think we need to move on to the next uh because we do yeah we're covered tight on time all right so yeah finally um green metadata sorry for you know giving making you a little tight on time here but let's all right I'd like to be on time and it's about uh rdcp messages from Green million in the next slide please so this is about uh the Epic specifications can you move closer to the mic so yeah try to be right on access all right yeah uh I hope this works better now oh yeah so this is about uh the iso specification 23001-11 which is an Egyptian uh media consumption so this is talking about how encoding and decoding can be done in a more energy efficient fashion so this specification provides two sets of metadata one is this video encoder generated uh which is complexity information being sent to the decoder so that it can uh you know adapt its decoding but this these sets of matter that I sent via supplemented SEI uh within the video stream so this is not the focus of the draft here the focus of this draft is a second set of metadata which is the decoder feedback uh messages so uh to decode to send some feedback and encoder trials without accordingly uh the energy collection uh at the decoding end so we needed a format for that those messages because there is no rtcp format defined for this and this is the format that is being specified outlined by this draft and the current version is linked here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:01",
    "text": "uh this stock is providing two uh new rtcp messages one is to post push a resolution request and the other one is the feedback message uh from the encoder which is a to post special uh resolution notification next slide please so uh the new messages are specified in a similar fashion to uh the payload specific feedback messages uh which are defined in avpf so uh as mentioned the two new messages uh they are they can be sent as a full compound rdcp packet or an early rtcp packet the reason being is that these messages are not very time critical so you can send them as early rtpcp messages if the application so reads but this is not required um and then the main idea is that the first message on the top this is what the decoder sends towards encoder when it wants the encoded to adapt the energy uh uh the uh the the decoder industry consumption and this is done via this typical message format ssrc is equals number and then obviously these are the key elements here frame rate picture height which is the request that the decoder is sending okay please adopt to this new resume function or frame rate and then as these messages go there is a feedback message from the encoder back to the decoder it has similar information Fields here uh but the reason of these uh information Fields is that the encoder might be trying to adopt from multiple decoders so it might have a different decision to do so it informs the decoder hey this is what I thought I've done with your request so next slide please some comments about timing and security so as mentioned before the encoder might be catering for multiple decoders so if there are multiple messages coming in then the encoder needs to decide you know joint need of optimization so one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "decoder saying that another one saying that so then code has to make a decision as mentioned before advances are not time critical um so their Center is a regular rtcp timing some security considerations have been documented in this draft which is um if the message is approved or uh there's a malicious message it might the decoder might request the maliciousness message might request a extremely low value quality or I mean we just recently got thinking uh it could be a request for extremely high video quality that the whole decoding can install so um yes some integrated Integrity production authentication is required that can be done in a very simple fashion to avpf as using srtp or as a vpf next slide please yeah so that's the last slide that I have so that's the purpose to gather feedback we already have some feedback comments from Jonathan that we mostly acknowledge and we are already working on the draft to uh to implement that uh the the target is to have no reflected discussion and then incorporate this feedback and eventually when the time comes uh seek for an adoption yes sure George here's your code I have one quick question um RTC pick rtcp messages aren't reliable so are you are you sending this as kind of soft state that you keep repeating what you expect continuously since he has transaction right the receiver sends something the decoder sends a wish to the encoder the encoder at some point would respond how does the decoder know that the encoder ever got what it was sending so since there is no acknowledgment in rtcp um do you repeat this on a constant basis until things get better or I didn't find anything in the draft when I was quickly grabbing through it so but I might have missed stuff yeah so these messages are working in a very similar way as uh the typical special trade-off request message in avpf almost identical"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:00",
    "text": "fashion so the decoder sends a message with the specific sequence member the encoder is supposed to reply to that sequence number so uh that's how the decoder finds out uh that for a given ssrc for a specific sequence number it got the message the The Encore got the message all right yeah like some questions as an individual first uh thanks to Stefan when he sent me the the um ISO document um I see that there's actually four different feedback mechanisms in that document that you're only doing one at this point is that all you're intending to do or is this just your starting point and you're planning to do some of the others as well yeah I think we picked the most important thing that we found at this point in time it could be uh based on feedback if I think there are more messages okay I mean if that's I mean if you think this is the one that's the most important that seems reasonable I just wanted to see if what your plans were going forward and then um the other is I there are some mechanisms I'm not sure I I seem to recall at the sdp level to specify things like frame rate and resolution to negotiate that at the signaling level and I want to know um is this to what extent is this complementary to that versus overlapping it I I would think this is complementary so STP is then how you're setting up the session then this is more I think this can work together with it so then the decoder is sending some messages so yeah and the third question I just had us is there um any IPR on this that needs to be disclosed we yeah so Qualcomm made a IPS statement I didn't see it so we should I'll check that out okay okay thank you yeah okay and if that um yeah so you're not you're not asking for adoption yet you want to do some more provisions and then yes the idea is getting more feedback and yeah eventually we would like to seek adoption but I mean when we crossed that bridge okay thank you all right great well I think that then wraps us up unless anybody has any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:02",
    "text": "other business in the one minute we have left otherwise thank you all um we'll discuss whether we need an interim we've been doing interims fairly successfully lately but once per cycle so we may do that again um depending on how things are progressing otherwise we'll see you all on Monday thank you all very much Bernard thank you thank you see you"
  }
]
