[
  {
    "start_time": "2022-11-10T10:51:30Z",
    "end_time": "2022-11-10T10:52:50Z",
    "text": "Do you think we should adopt stub network doc as working group document if includes DHCPv6-PD ?",
    "results": {
      "1": {
        "text": "raise_hand",
        "value": "raise",
        "count": 26
      },
      "2": {
        "text": "do_not_raise_hand",
        "value": "do_not_raise",
        "count": 0
      }
    }
  }
]
